Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18800-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
February 25, 1999
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1998)
Currency Unit = RMB
RMB 1=US$ 0.12
US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January I   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APTC      Anshan Public Transport Company                 LUTP    Liaoning Urban Transport Project
ARO       Resettlement Office of Anshan Urban             MFB       Municipal Finance Bureau
Construction Bureau
ASPT      Anshan Public Transport                         MOF      Ministry of Finance
ASRI      Anshan Road Infrastructure                      MV        Motorized Vehicle
ASRM    Anshan Road Maintenance                           MVECS  Motor Vehicles Emissions Control Strategy
ASTA      Anshan Technical Assistance                     NCB      National Competitive Bidding
ASTM      Anshan Traffic Management                       NMHC   Non-Methane Hydrocarbons
AWP       Annual Work Plan                                NMV      Non-Motorized Vehicle
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                     NPV      Net Present Value
CPO       City Project Offices                            NRCR    National Research Center for Resettlement
EA        Environmental Assessment                        OPRC    Operations Procurement Review Committee
EAP       Environmental Action Plan                       PAP      Project Affected People
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment                 PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development
(Fund)
EPB       Environment Protection Bureau                   PIP      Project Implementation Plan
ERR       Economic Rate of Return                         PPMO    Provincial Project Management Office
FLASS   Fushun Land Acquisition Service Station           PO       Project Office
FSPT      Fushun Public Transport                         PFB      Provincial Financial Bureau
FSRI     Fushun Road Infrastructure                       PSR      Project Supervision Report
FSRM      Fushun Road Maintenance                         RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
FSTA      Fushun Technical Assistance                     RMC      China Resident Mission
FSTM      Fushun Traffic Management                       SEPA     State Environmental Protection Administration
GOC       Government of Chini                             SPTGC   Shenyang Public Transport Group Company
ICB       International Competitive Bidding               SOE      Statement of Expenditures
ICR       Implementation Completion Report                SYPT     Shenyang Public Transport
ITC       International Tendering Company                 SYRI    Shenyang Road Infrastructure
LFB       Liaoning Financial Bureau                       SYRM    Shenyang Road Maintenance
LPB      Liaoning Planning Bureau                         SYTA    Shenyang Technical Assistance
LPLT      Liaoning Project Leading Team                   SYTM    Shenyang Traffic Management
LPTTS   Liaoning Province Traffic and Transport Study    VOC       Vehicle Operating Costs
LUCRPO  Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal
Project Office
Vice President:    Jean-Michel Severino
Country Manager/Director:    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:    Jitendra N. Bajpai
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Richard G. Scurfield



CHINA
LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic ciloices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        9
3. Benefits and target population                                                      10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       II
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         17
E. Summary Project Analyses
I. Economic                                                                            17
2. Financial                                                                           17
3. Technical                                                                           18
4. Institutional                                                                       20
5. Social                                                                              20
6. Environmental assessment                                                            20
7. Participatory approach                                                              21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     22
2. Critical risks                                                                      22
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      23



- jj_-
G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           23
2. Other                                                                              23
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          23
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    27
Annex 2A: Project Description: Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance      35
Sub-Component                                                                            37
Annex 2B: Liaoning Motor Vehicles Emissions Control Strategy Study
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   40
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               46
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       47
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                              52
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements                                     53
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                    54
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                            55
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     56
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                       57
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  58
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            61
Annex I 1: Institutional Arrangements                                                    63
Annex 12: Summary of Environmental Assessment and Action Plans                           66
Annex 13: Summary of Resettlement Action Plan                                            72
Annex 14: Assessment of Project Financial Management Systems                             78
Annex 15: Development Background by City                                                 81
MAP(S)
IBRD 30063 - Liaoning Urban Transport Project - Shenyang
IBRD 30062 - Liaoning Urban Transport Project - Fushun
IBRD 30061 - Liaoning Urban Transport Project - Anshan



CHINA
Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
China Country Unit
Date: February 25, 1999                            Team Leader: Richard G. Scurfield
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang              Sector Manager/Director: Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project ID: 41890                                  Sector(s): TU - Urban Transport
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Project Financing Data
N Loan          L Credit        El Grant         E Guarantee     O Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 150.0
Proposed Terms: El To be defined   LI Multicurrency  N Single currency USD
E Standard Variable                     LI Fixed  X LlBOR-based
Grace period (years):             5
Years to maturity:                15
Commitment fee:                   0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan        1.00%
Financing Plan:    Oi To be defined
Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                      222.5            11.4         233.9
IBRD                                                              0.3           149.7         150.0
IDA                                                               0.0             0.0           0.0
Total:                                                          222.8   1       161.1         383.9
|Borrower: People's Republic Of China
| Guarantor:



Page 2
Responsible agency:
Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun Municipal Governments via
Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO)
Address: No.19 Caita St. Shenyang
Contact: Mr. Zeng Juequn, Director
Tele: 024-23842898
Fax: 024-23922290
E-mail: LUCRPOA@PUB.SY.LNPTA.NET.CN
Liaoning Provincial Bureau of Finance
Debt Management Division
103 North Nanjing Street, Heping District
Contact: Mr. Ma Shulai, Vice-Division Chief
Tele: 024-22702780-1103
Fax: 024-22834167
E-mail: LPBFMSL@PUB.SY.LNPTA.NET.CN
Implementing agency(ies):
Shenyang Project Office
Address: Wanghu Road No. 2 Heping District, Shenyang
Contact Person: Mr. Sun Dong, Project Manager
Tel: 024-23242198                  Fax: 024-23873718                 Email:
Anshan Project Office
Address: Jinglong Building 2109, Shengli Road, Tiedong District, Anshan
Contact Person: Mr. Mao Shuan Zhu, Project Manager
Tel: 0412-2240027                  Fax: 0412-5532355                  Email:
Fushun Project Office
Address: Hebei Road 60-2, Xinfu District, Fushun
Contact Person: Ms. Yang Hua, Project Manager
Tel: 0413-7725098                  Fax: 0413-7725098                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY           1999         2000         2001        2002        2003         2004
Annual     10.0          35.0         45.0        33.8        19.0          7.2
Cumulative     10.0         45.0         90.0        123.8       142.8        150.0
Project implementation period: July 1999 to June 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/99  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD) Form: Octohcr 9, 1998



Page 3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
Within the three cities of Shenyang, Fushun, and Anshan in the Province of Liaoning the objective is to
improve urban transport system productivity so as to facilitate economic and social developmenit w ithin the
project cities.
Specifically the project will:
I. Alleviate bottlenecks in the road system through the development of higil grade facilities. secondary
roads, rail crossings, missing links, and widenings.
2. Increase efficiency and effectiveness of public transport services throughi development of bus
corridors and passenger facilities and modernized maintenance facilities.
3. Improve maintenance of road investments through development of modernized and sustainable
pavement management systems.
4. Improve environmental sustainability of project investments through development of a motor
vehicle emissions control strategy.
5. Improve operational efficiency and safety of the road system through channelization of modal
traffic and development of NMV facilities, signalization, and other traffic management measures.
6. Strengthen local capacity for urban transport system management through study tours, technical
assistance, and targeted training.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Objective                                  Performance Indicators
Alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks       * Corridor Journey (Travel) Time
Improve maintenance of road investments    * Pavement condition
* Sustainable maintenance budget
* Average cost of maintenance performed
Improve environmental sustainability of    * Air quality standard
project investments                        0 Development of a Motor Vehicle Emissions Control Strategy
* Adoption and implementation of the Strategy
Improve operational efficiency and safety of    * System throughput measured by screen line flows by mode with
road system                                 occupancy and travel time
* Total accidents, total deaths, and percent involving pedestrians
and bicyclists
Increase the efficiency and effectiveness of  * Annual subsidy
public transport service                   0 Average operating cost per revenue km. service



Page 4
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107                          Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
China: Country Assistance Strategy
Full Report, 16321-CHA, February 27, 1997
Progress Report, R98-107, May 6, 1998
The sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goals of the project are:
1. Promote Growth with Economic Stability;
11. Alleviate Infrastructure Constraints; and
V. Safeguard the Environment.
For the three project cities of Shenyang, Fushun and Anshan, the project will contribute to these goals by
increasing city-wide productivity and raising the standard of living for the cities' inhabitants, through
targeted and sustainable improvements to the urban transport system.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
The major issues facing the urban transport sector in China stem from increasing motorization rapid
urbanization, inefficient public transport and poorly coordinated institutional arrangements for managing
urban traffic. Specifically,
3   Urban traffic congestion is already an important constraint to urban productivity;
*   Air pollution from vehicle emissions poses a serious health threat to the urban population.
*   Road safety is a major issue in all Chinese cities. Also the technical capacity to analyze problems,
and to design and implement solutions is weak. In particular, use of roads by pedestrians and
bicycles is becoming increasingly dangerous.
*   The road network density in China's cities is typically lower than that found elsewhere and
investment in new capacity is needed.
*   Cities must make more efficient use of the existing road network. However, while modern traffic
management practices are beginning to develop in some cities, the complementary traffic
engineering skills are still in short supply.
*   Public transit is hindered by a lack of capacity and outdated equipment, and is operating on
congested roads which result in slow operating speeds.
*   Public transport companies are encumbered by inefficient management practices as well as
non-core obligations. However, public transport enterprise reform is taking place in many cities in
China, often with the participation of private operators.



Page 5
*   The role of government is evolving from directly producing services (as an operator) toward
enabling their provision (as a franchise manager). However, these changes are almost always
taking place within an inadequate regulatory environment.
*   Institutional mechanisms for the coordination of urban land use and transportation developmenit
exist through the "master planning" process, but the relationships between land use and transport
are not well understood.
*   In most cities, policy-making, management and regulation of the sector is uncoordiniated and
uneven.
Government Strategy
In response to the need for a comprehensive treatment of these topics, a symposium was held in Beijing in
late 1995, to discuss China's Urban Transport Development Strategy, sponsored by the Ministry of
Construction, Ministry of Finance, the People's Bank of China, the World Bank and the Asian
Development Bank. The concluding statement of the symposium (summarized below) provides the basis
for urban transport policy and strategy in China.
Two to three years ago, only the very largest municipalities were concerned ahout urban transport. Water
supply and sewage disposal seemed more urgent problems. This has changedfor one very clear reason: the
rising number of motor vehicles - cars, trucks, taxis and motorcycles - has resulted in a sharp increase in
traffic congestion. Urban transport is complex. Action is needed in many areas at the same time - policv,
institutions, management, prices, infrastructure construction and other investments. It does not help to solve
one problem if others are ignored
There was considerable agreement among the delegates on the general lines of actions to be taken. These
were brought together as five principles, four criteria and eight actions.
The five principles represent themes that should guide urban transport planning and operations at this time
in China's development. They were that:
*   Transport is about moving people and goods, not vehicles;
*   Transport prices should reflect full social costs;
*   Transport reforms should deepen to align with socialist market principles so as to increase
efficiency;
*   The role of government should be to guide transport development;
*   The role of the private sector in providing transport services should be encouraged.
City plans and policies for managing transport should meet four criteria:
*   Environmental sustainability
*   Economic viability
*   Financial affordability
*   Social acceptability
Consistent with these principles and criteria, eight actions are recommended to:
*   Reform urban transport administration;



Page 6
*   Upgrade the status of traffic management;
*   Prepare a strategy to mitigate motor vehicle air and noise pollution;
*   Develop policies to manage traffic demand;
* Develop a strategy for mass transit;
*   Reform public transport management and operations;
*   Develop a financing strategy for the transport sector;
*   Strengthen the framework for transport planning and capacity building.
Agreements reached at the Symposium, in conjunction with the CAS for China and local development
plans, together provide the Strategic Context for this project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
All three project cities of Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun face common issues with respect to the
development of their urban transport systems. These include:
Fragmented Policy-Making. Policy-making within the sector suffers from poor institutional
coordination and low technical capacity to support decision-making.
Inadequate Road Network. Each city's road network is poorly developed and lacks hierarchy. Other
factors include:
*   The division of the central area by railways with inadequate road crossings;
o Underdeveloped primary road systems within the road hierarchy;
* Missing links in the road network causing poor network connectivity;
* Inadequate budgets and institutional problems;
* Conventional road maintenance planning is not practiced.
Loss of Public Transit Mode Share. Several factors contribute to declining mode shares for public
transit including increasing motorization of travel with rising affluence. Other factors include:
* Large increases in the number of motor vehicles;
* Slow bus operating speeds (slower than bicycle travel, ranging from 5-8 km/hr);
* Poorly developed route networks and transfer points;
* Larger conventional buses are losing favor in comparison with minibuses which provide a
higher-level of service, but which can often cause congestion at stops;
* Underdeveloped regulatory capacity to manage competition and the entry of new participants;
* Large public transport companies in each city continue to struggle to reform their operations
within a context of fixed public operating subsidies and fare structures.
Chronic and Recurrent Congestion. Slow operating speeds and safety incidents are caused by:
* A lack of proper control and management of mixed traffic;
* A lack of adequate mode segregated facilities;
*   Responsibility for traffic management is also generally limited to the enforcement aspect, with
limited capacity to undertake traffic impact analysis, circulation plans, safety analysis.
Additional background on the sector issues facing each city is presented in Annex 15.



Page 7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will support the development of infrastructure, services and institutions in the three cities of
Shenyang, Fushun and Anshan as described below:
Shenyang - The project will augment the existing urban road network through the construction of
additional capacity in the principal east-west corridors, provide additional crossings of the railway lines
which divide the city, improve the quality of road maintenance and traffic management, improve the quality
of public transport services through the provision of exclusive bus lanes and improved mainteniance and
bus terminal facilities, and strengthen local capacity for the management of urban transport operations and
services through studies, technilcal assistance and training.
Public Transport. The project will construct a bus maintenance repair facility with the capacity to
maintain 1.000 buses per annum, a bus terminus which will provide facilities for three bus routes and
parking spaces for 150 buses, and provide related equipment for these facilities. Bus priority facilities
will be provided, including a proposed exclusive center-lane busway.
Traffic Management. The project will finance traffic management improvements to 38 local roads.
These improvements will include channelizationi of intersections, road widening, an area traffic control
system, traffic signs and markings, the development of pedestrian facilities and the provision of 18.1
km of NMV exclusive roads.
Road Infrastructure. Three major east-west corridors will be developed under the project. The
Beiye-Lianhe corridor involves the reconstruction of two major east-west roads to form a contiguous
corridor, the construction of the Gonghe Railway overpass and the Gonghe Interchange. The Jianshe-
Nanwu Road improvements will require the construction of a 4 km section of elevated road and the
Fangxinig Square interchange. The third corridor is Pangjiang Jie Street, a four-lane section of the First
Ring Road, which will be improved to a six-lane standard.
Road Maintenance. The project will finance re-surfacing and reconstruction of 43 local roads, and the
purchase of road maintenance equipment.
Fushun - The project will strengthen the urban transport network through the construction of the Hunhenan
Corridor, (a new major east-west road corridor), the provision of bus priority facilities and NMV exclusive
roads, support bus maintenance and road maintenance, the provision of improved traffic management
facilities, and strengthen the local capacity for the management of urban transport operations and services
through studies, technical assistance and training.
Public Transport. The project will provide modern bus maintenance equipment and develop 6.7 km of
exclusive bus priority facilities on existing and improved roads.
Traffic Management. The project will finance improved traffic management facilities along two
major road corridors and in one area. Seventeen junctions will be included in a coordinated traffic
control system.



Page 8
Road Infrastructure. The project will construct the 18.5 km Hunhenan expressway along the south
bank of the Hun river, and a parallel 18.3 km local service road. The expressway will provide a road
for motor vehicles only, and its construction will allow the improvement of the parallel Hunhenan
Road as an arterial road for mixed traffic. The project will also provide access from the Hunhenan
corridor to several of the city's major development zones, including two economic development zones,
two industrial areas, the railway station and the new Wanxin city center area. The project will also
finance the Wanxin bridge and interchange to service a resettlement area on the north side of the river.
Road Maintenance. The project will finance the reconstruction and paving of 15.5 km of roadway,
along four routes and finance modern road maintenance equipment.
Anshan - The project will finance the reconstruction of the main north-south corridor and the construction
of an interchange between the primary north-south (Jianguo) and east-west (Yongchang Jie to Huangang
Road) corridors. The project will also provide funds to upgrade an existing tram exclusive way, bus
priority facilities and NMV exclusive roads. The project will also finance traffic management
improvements, road maintenance works and technical assistance, including studies and training to
strengthen the institutions in the city to manage and operate urban transport services more effectively.
Public Transport. The project will finance works whiich will provide 6.2 km of tramway and 5.4 km of
busway. It will also finance equipment for upgrading of the tramway system. In addition, the project
includes a bus transfer station which will serve 17 bus routes.
Trofflc Management. The project will finance channelization of eight junctions, develop 5.6 km of
NMV exclusive roads, and finance off-street parking facilities. In addition, the project will provide
traffic signal equipment, signs and marking, and specialized management vehicles.
Road Infrastructure. The project will construct nine facilities including improvements to the principal
north-south (Jianguo) corridor in the city, the Wuyi interchange, and the Shahe bridge (which will
provide an improved truck route to the north of the city.)
Road Maintenance. The project will reconstruct Hongqi Road (4 km), sidewalks along six roads, and
selected improvements to other urban roads.
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistan ce. This sub-component will support the development
of selected sector institutions in the three cities through the provision of appropriate training and office
equipment as well as providing consulting services to assist with the detailed design activities for some of
the smaller and specialized components (see Annex 2A for further details). The major items are as follows:
Public transport. The project will finance (i) additional design studies of the bus priority facilities and
the preparation of operating plans for their use once they are completed; (ii) a review of the options for
public transport reform in the three cities. This study will review experience in other cities in China and
from other cities around the world so as to permit the development of plans for the development of
future policies and regulations in the project cities.
Traffic management. The project will finance additional design studies of the area control systems, the
development of parking policy and management plans, and an analysis of traffic accidents.
Road maintenance. Plans will be prepared to assist municipalities to establish formal road



Page 9
maintenance systems, and staff will be trained through domestic and international training.
Motor Vehicles Emissions Control Strategy (MVECS). The project will finance the preparation of a
strategy study and action plans to assist the municipalities to identify and implement appropriate
measures to protect the environment.
Project Management. Consulting services will be financed to assist with the preparation of bid
documentation and provide construction supervision, and to provide training to improve the quality of
project supervision.
Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component                    Sector         Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)    Total       (US$M)  financing
A. Shenyang Component                                    165.4       43.1       63.6       42.4
B. Fushun Component                                       91.3       23.8       38.1       25.4
C. Anshan Component                                      119.2       31.0       41.6       27.7
Technical Assistant                                        6.5         1.7       5.2        3.5
Total Project Costs                     382.4        99.6     148.5       99.0
Front-end fee                       1.5        0.4        1.5        1.0
Total Financing Required                      383.9       100.0     150.0      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the following on-going reforms:
Sector Management. Inadequate urban transport sector coordination and management is one of the major
challenges facing all Chinese cities. In order to address this problem, a transport management committee
has been established in all three cities to strengthen policy making within the sector. These committees are
made up of officials representing all the essential sector agencies. They have high-level authority to
coordinate all aspects of urban transport management, including the development, approval, review and
monitoring of urban transport management policies.
Public Transport Reform. Public transport reform programs were initiated in each city in the early 1990s.
Each seeks to maintain and attract public transport riders through improved services while reducing the
need for public subsidies. The major strategies to achieve these goals include improving operating
efficiencies and the introduction of private participation in the sector.
Strategies to cut costs and improve operating efficiencies include consolidation of units, divestiture of
assets (relocation to lower cost locations), replacing ticket conductors with fareboxes, re-deployment of
staff (to new functions, contracting status or other tertiary operations). In parallel, each municipality is
experimenting with various "joint operations" to introduce private participation in the sector.
The project will support the development of public transport in each city through the provision of bus
priority corridors and facilities, and the modernization of maintenance capabilities. In addition, the project
seeks to reduce of public subsidies as a measure of project performance. Finally, studies and training
proposed under technical assistance will further the development of policies to promote more diverse
operating practices and ownership of public transport services. Officials in Liaoning have already
undertaken a study tour of the public transport system in Curitiba, Brazil, at their own initiative and using



Page 10
local funds.
Traffic management circulation and enforcement plans, parking management plans  . In the past, the
building of new roads has always been the first priority of most municipal governments in China.
Increasing the efficiency of existing roads has not been given sufficient priority. During project
preparation, both the provincial and municipal governments recognized the importance of the traffic
management improvements. The Shenyang city government has created a series of policies to promote
traffic management. The other two cities have also introduced traffic management improvement policies.
During the implementation of the project, the traffic management policies will be reviewed, monitored and
improved through the provision of training, technical assistance and study tours.
Institution building for road maintenance. As described above, due to inadequate funding and
under-management of road maintenance, there is no systematic routine or periodic maintenance of roads in
the project cities. This has resulted in a large backlog of maintenance needs. City officials now recognize
the need to institute reforms including raising maintenance budgets to sustainable levels, staff reductions,
and gradual transformation of city maintenance crews to contracting units. In order to facilitate this
reform, it is proposed to pilot a maintenance management system under the project which will include the
development of performance and maintenance standards, and work program planning, budgeting and
scheduling. In parallel, maintenance funding would be brought to needed levels.
Environmental emissions strategy. The three project cities - Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun - recognize
that unchecked growth in motor vehicles fleet will gradually erode the benefits of the project. The cities
therefore recognize the need to implement controls on vehicle emissions. The proposal to develop a Motor
Vehicles Emissions Control Strategy (MVECS) for Liaoning will take advantage of both international
experience and the experience of other cities in China. The program will include: implementation of an
unleaded fuiel program, establishment of a vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) system, establishment
of a Vehicle Emission Research Center, introduction of catalytic converters, development of alternative fuel
technologies, and expansion of the automated monitoring network to monitor air pollution. It will also
include a training component. If the program is implemented as envisaged, the program is expected to
reduce mobile source contribution to the overall air pollution by 30-40 percent over a five-year period.
Annex 2B provides more information on this activity. The development of the MVECS is scheduled to
begin in July 1999, but it should be noted that the compilation of emissions information during the
preparation of the EAs for the LUTP represents a substantial step towards the program objectives.
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct benefits of the project are expected to accrue to passenger and freight transport system users in
the form of reduced travel time, lower transport costs, and increased reliability and safety of the urban
transport system. The project will also strengthen the policy-making, regulatory, and implementation
capacity of sector institutions. Secondary or indirect effects of these benefits should include lower producer
(and possibly consumer) prices, increased sustainability of sector investments, and improved sector
management, together resulting in improved development potential of the city.
Consideration of geographically-based target populations also influenced project design in each city. In
Shenyang, infrastructure improvements will allow public transport services to reach populations in the
north-eastern section of the city. This area was previously under-served by traditional transit due to
inadequate vertical clearance for buses at the Shenfu Railway underpass. In Fushun, construction of a new
river crossing will facilitate relocation of residents and businesses now situated atop subsiding land in the
south of the city (due to coal pits) to a new district in the north-east of the city. The new district will



Page 11
additionally be the new center for the city government. In Anshan, improvements to the road network will
provide access to three industrial economic development zones to the south, supporting the municipality's
goals of economic diversification.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements for Implementation. Overall project management is the responsibility of the
Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO), which has been established under
the direction of the Liaoning Project Leading Team (LPLT). The LPLT is chaired by the vice-governor.
who is responsible for urban construction activities, with members participating from the Financial Bureau,
Construction Commission, Environmental Protection Bureau, Auditing Bureau and Public Security
Bureau. LUCRPO will be the primary interlocutor with the Bank.
In each project city, a Project Leading Group has been established. These groups are responsible for the
coordination of project planning activities and implementation in their respective jurisdictions and are
chaired by the vice-mayors who oversee the urban construction activities. Under their overall direction, the
municipal Project Offices will manage and coordinate the day-to-day implementation of the project.
Individual project components will be managed as follows (see Annex I I for description of each agency's
roles and responsibilities):
P Public Transport Companies, under the general direction of the Public Utilities Bureau in each city,
will manage the public transport sub-components.
i   Traffic Brigades in each of the three cities will be responsible for traffic management
improvements and will also be responsible for the implementation of the bus priority lanes.
9   Road infrastructure components will be implemented by the municipal Project Offices on behalf of
the Municipal Urban Construction Commissions.
*   Road Maintenance Agencies within the Municipal Construction Commissions will manage the
implementation of the road maintenance sub-components.
*   Liaoning Environment Protection Bureau will coordinate the development of the overall
environmental improvement policies and municipal Environment Protection Bureaus will monitor
the implementation of the environmental action plans.
*   Municipal Land Acquisition and Resettlement Offices will implement the resettlement activities
included within the project.
Implementation Arrangements. The project will be implemented over a five-year period, from July 1,
1999 to June 30, 2004. The loan will close on December 31, 2004.
The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was prepared by LUCRPO and each municipal PO for use in the
management of the project. The PIP includes the implementation schedule, procurement plan,
disbursement schedule, performance indicators and monitoring for the overall project and for project
component activities. A copy of the PIP is available in the Project File.
An Annual Review of the project will provide the opportunity to review implementation progress, to



Page 12
address emerging problems and to agree on the AWP for the following year. The review will take place by
December 15 of each year starting in 1999, so as to ensure appropriate provision is made for counterpart
funds in municipal budgets.
Annual Work Program (AWP) will be drawn up by the implementing agencies, within the framework
included in the PIP. It will provide a forward looking construction program, show the progress achieved in
the preceding year, and confirm the availability of counterpart funds. It will be the responsibility of
LUCRPO to assemble the AWP into a single document for discussion during the Annual Review of the
project.
World Bank Supervision Arrangements. Responsibility for supervision of the project will remain with
the RMC field office, with participation from team members from both RMC and headquarters.
Specifically, the supervision plan includes the following:
*   A project launch workshop will be arranged soon after Board approval which will give focus on
the essential project management activities including, procurement, financial management, and
implementation of the resettlement and environmental action plans.
- Two formal supervision missions a year will be scheduled, including the annual review mission.
All such missions will comprise the task team leader, an operations officer from RMC, plus
technical, procurement or other specialists from HQ or RMC as required. Environmental,
resettlement and financial specialists will visit the project at least once every year. Field-based
staff will maintain regular contact with the POs between scheduled missions, and will make
additional field visits as deemed necessary.
*   A mid-term Review of the project is scheduled for the first half of 2001. This will provide an
opportunity for a more in-depth review of the project and evaluation of progress towards
achievement of project objectives.
Financial Arrangements. The Ministry of Finance will on-lend World Bank loan funds to the Liaoning
Provincial Government (through the Finance Bureau), which will in-turn on-lend funds to each of the
municipal governments of Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun. There will be no subsidiary loans to any entity
beyond the municipalities. On-lending terms will be the same as the Bank's with the exception of the
interest waiver and commitment fee waiver.
Retroactive-flnance will be provided for civil works and consulting services in each of the project cities in
the amount of US$13.0 million. The Procurement method for civil works is NCB and for consulting
services is QCBS.
Procurement Arrangements. Procurement arrangements are described in more detail in Annex 6. The
ability of the implementing agencies to implement the procurement plan was assessed and found to be
adequate. LUCRPO has managed two previous Bank projects and has generally performed satisfactorily.
This agency will be supported by a tendering company that is well established and has long experience of
the Bank's procurement procedures. In addition, LUCRPO propose to recruit an expatriate implementation
advisor to assist them with these tasks. Finally, in collaboration with LUCRPO, training will be provided
to enhance the skills of the staff assigned to the city project offices, for which staffing plans have been
discussed and agreed with the Bank.
Contracts subject to prior review by the Bank will be: (a) Civil Works contracts, ICB/NCB valued at



Page 13
US$2,000,000 and above; (b) contracts for the procurement of Goods valued at US$250,000 and above;
and (c) Consultant Services contracts employing (i) firms, valued at US$ 100,000 and above and (ii)
individuals, valued at US$50,000 and above.
Disbursement Arrangements. Disbursement arrangements are described in Annex 6, Table C. A Special
Account will be established in the amount of US$12 million. SOEs will be used for all contracts under
US$2 million equivalent for Civil works, US$0.25 million for Goods, US$100.000 for consulting firms and
US$50,000 for individual consultants and training contracts.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements . LUCRPO and each of the municipal
project offices will have overall responsibility for establishing and monitoring the use of a uniform project
accounting system. Financial records and accounts, in a format suggested by the Bank, will be retained by
the project office and relevant agencies concerned with component funding, payment and disbursement.
LUCRPO will consolidate all project financial statements from the project implementing agencies into a
single project financial report on a bi-annual basis for monitoring purposes and annually for audit
purposes. In line with audit arrangement for other Bank-financed projects in China, the project will be
audited by the State Audit Administration. Work to refine the project accounting and reporting system will
be continued during implementation.
Assessment of Project Financial Management System (see Annex 14 for details). The project task team
has conducted an assessment of the Project Financial Management System for Liaoning Provincial
Financial Bureau (PFB), Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO),
Shenyang/Fushun/Anshan Financial Bureaus, and Shenyang, Fushun, Anshan Project Offices. The review
included accounting standards, internal control systems, accounting practices, staffing and reporting
requirements, agency responsibilities, budget system and audit arrangement.
Except as noted in the Action Plan and follow-up actions listed in Annex 14, the project is found to have in
place a project financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and
timely information required by, and acceptable to, the Bank. It was noted that the PFB has substantial
experience with the World Bank's and MOF's requirements and procedures in preparation and processing
of withdrawal applications and the financial management of projects. The project's financial and accounting
units, especially Fushun and Anshan, will be adequately staffed with qualified staff before project
implementation. Technical assistance and focused training will be provided under the project to strengthen
financial management capabilities and financial/accounting skills. In addition, detailed internal control
regulations for each city's project office will be prepared in advance of the effectiveness of the project. The
Bank's Resident Mission in Beijing will support the implementation of the training and technical assistance
programs as necessary, and will supervise the financial management of the project.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring of all aspects of project implementation activities including
performance indicators, will be the responsibility of LUCRPO. Monthly reports, provided by the
implementing agencies, will provide the basis for monitoring. Progress on the project will be
communicated to the Bank by means of quarterly progress reports which will include both consolidated
information for the total project and individual reports on each component.
Every year, as the basis for the annual review, LUCRPO will collect project progress and performance data
to allow actual performance to be compared against agreed indicator targets (see Annex I and PIP). During
implementation, these performance indicators will be reviewed by the government and the Bank. Areas for
improvement will be identified and measures to achieve them will be proposed. Special assessments will be
carried out at the time of the mid-term review and project completion.



Page 14
LUCRPO will prepare a detailed project completion report and submit it to the Bank not later than three
months after the loan closing date, so that the ICR can be issued within six months of the latter date.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
While the project rationale is rooted in the economic development goals in each city's Master Plan and
transport master plan, the project itself has evolved substantially during project preparation. The use of
alternatives analyses revealed where it was possible to achieve the desired benefits at lower cost and
impact. Wlhere this was possible, larger scale and higher-cost infrastructure proposals were rejected in
favor of more modest and well-balanced solutions. In some cases, entire concepts were abandoned. For
others, over-designed facilities were scaled back while preserving options to stage construction upgrades as
futtire capacity needs warrant.
For example, in Sheniyang the original proposal to upgrade 17 km. of the First Ring Road to a uniform
elevated 4-lane urbani expressway standard was rejected. It was replaced with a program of spot
widening and grade separation. junction improvements, the enhancement of parallel routes and
improved traffic management within the corridor. Other examples of scaled back investments include:
Fanxinig Square in Sheniyang, Wuyi Interchange in Anshan and Hunhenan Expressway and
interchianges in Fusitin. In some cases, where impacts were considered too great, proposals were
rejected altogether, as with the case of the proposed Wugong Viaduct in Fushun (a viaduct which
would hiave bisected a major pedestrian oriented/commercial street).
[he re-scoped project allowed for the expansion of the traffic management program from area traffic
control to incliude other elements such as channelization, NMV route development and parking. Likewise,
the road maintenance component was expanded from equipment to include some rehabilitation works. Most
significantly of all, the redesign of the infrastructure component supported transformation of the public
transport component to include public transport reform and the provision of bus priority facilities. As a
result, this component evolved from one which was heavily vehicle-oriented to a broader based program of
reform and investment.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Urban transport improvement        First and Second Shanghai          S              S
Metropolitan Transport
Projects
Public transport reform            Medium-Sized Cities                S              S
Development Project
Urban transport improvement        Liaoning Urban Infrastructure      S              S
Project



Page 15
Urban transport improvement       Tianjin Urban Development and      S             S
Environment Project
Urban transport improvement       Guangzhou City Center              S             S
Transport Project
Other development agencies
Traffic management                 European Union grant financing
for Beijing 2nd and 3rd Ring
Road Intelligent Transport
Systems
Motor vehicle emission control     UNDP grant financing of
Beijing vehicle emissions
inspection program
Energy and environmental sustainability International Institute for
Energy Conservation are
supporting integrated transport
planning in Linzhou, Henan and
Xiamen (U.S. EPA financed)
P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactbry), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A wide range of urban transport and highway projects in China, and around the world provide a wealth of
lessons from which it has been possible to draw upon during project preparation. Some of the major
lessons learnt are summarized below:
It is important to manage investment priorities. Recent Bank-financed urban transport projects in
Shanghai and Guangzhou reflect strong local interest in single-standard, high-grade, urban ring road
development. Facing hard budget constraints and urban transport problems of a different scale and nature,
the infrastructure components in Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun reflect a departure from this approach.
In-depth analysis and consensus-building, undertaken jointly by local teams working closely together with
consultants and the Bank, led to a project design reflecting a high degree of balance and ownership.
It is important to manage road space more effectively. In general, all Bank-financed urban transport
projects in all countries aim to demonstrate the importance of good traffic management to the safe and
efficient performance of the urban transport system. The development of a consensus around this view in
each of the project cities augers well for the sustainability of the project.
Timely project preparation is important for successful implementation. Experience from around the
world underlines the importance of rigorous, early preparation for major civil and ancillary works and early
preparation for procurement activities. This is especially important in the urban transport context, where
traffic and other impacts during construction may cause greater risks to project costs and schedules.
Advance preparation of bidding documentation and independent design reviews have fostered smooth
implementation and have helped reduce variations during the implementation period. The appointment of
an implementation advisor, financed by the project, will further assist with the preparation of later
contracts.



Page 16
Quality control of design activities is important to a successful outcome. The quality of road and traffic
engineering design activities in China is generally very satisfactory. However, Bank experience in both the
highway and urban transport sectors in China, demonstrates the importance of taking steps to ensure that
the local designers are aware of best international practice. Poorly designed roads result in safety risks for
users, while poorly constructed roads lower economic benefits and increase vehicle-operating costs. Design
reviews incorporated in the preparation process have ensured that effective preventive actions were taken at
the design stage. The Bank also financed a road safety review at the pre-appraisal stage.
Quality assurance during construction is also vitalfor a successful outcome. Generally, the Bank has
been satisfied with the quality of road construction activities in China. However, experience has shown,
that it is necessary to build quality control mechanisms into all projects. Higher costs result from
premature deterioration, when corrective actions in the form of increased maintenance and/or rehabilitation
are required. To address this concern, a series of measures has been built into the project including
stringent contractor prequalification, careful formulation of supervision arrangements, (including
engagement of international experts), and training of local supervision staff.
Witlhout sound project management tlere will not be a successful outcome. Close supervision of
programs, has shown to be critically important to successful project implementation. The agreement of an
annual review process and the requirement to produce an Annual Work Program are designed to ensure
that project implementation proceeds efficiently.
The implementation of the technical assistance and training activities is importantfor project
sustainability. Based on the Bank's experience with institutional and policy aspects of urban transport
projects, the balanced implementation of project investments and technical assistance are important for
sustainable outcomes. During preparation, local officials have already demonstrated an appreciation of the
complexities of various activities proposed in the project, and view training and other forms of technical
assistance as an important part of the project. A comprehensive program has been developed as described
in the PIP.
Sustainability depends on the successful implementation of the resettlement and environmental
programs. Experience with respect to the implementation of resettlement and environmental programs in
China has generally been favorable. However, careful attention will be paid to supervision of these
activities during construction including the training of personnel and the monitoring of impacts once the
new facilities are in operation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The strongest indication of borrower commitment and ownership has been the high levels of human and
financial resources which have been dedicated to the project since its inception as an idea, over ten years
ago. The Bank's links to Liaoning Province in the urban sector date back to the Liaoning Province Traffic
and Transport Study (LPTTS) undertaken in 1987-88 with funding from the Australian Government and
the World Bank as executing agency. The study focused on the same three cities of Shenyang, Anshan, and
Fushun, first undertaking a diagnostic of current urban transport conditions, and then going on to identify
and evaluate projects for transport investment.
The 1988 LPTTS was launched as part of the preparation of an urban investment project for Liaoning
Province, but the focus on urban transport was premature. Leaders in Liaoning Province, like most other
authorities in China at the time, were more interested in development of water supply and wastewater
treatment. Accordingly, the Bank went on to finance two projects in these sectors. The Liaoning Urban



Page 17
Infrastructure Project was approved in early 1991 with a total investment of about $130 million, and an
IDA credit of about $80 million. The credit included only a small $17 million component for urban
transport investments in Shenyang. Subsequently, a second urban project, the Liaoning Environment
Project was approved in 1994 for a total investment of $350 million with a loan of $1 110 million. There
were no transport components included in this second project.
Local officials re-commenced their study of transport needs in 1994, pre-dating the Bank's involvement in
the project in March of 1996. Since that time, local officials have continued to demonstrate strong support
for the development of the project. The commitment is demonstrated by their strong involvement in all
project preparation activities through the newly established project offices in each city and the creation of
new institutional arrangements to coordinate project activities and develop transportation policies. Local
officials also participated in the International Workshop for Traffic Management Improvement held in
Shenyang in September, 1997. Officials from Liaoning Province and all three project cities also recently
traveled on a locally-financed study tour to Curitiba, Brazil, in order to learn about busway planning and
urban transportation management.
The municipalities have additionally implemented a pilot channelization project in Fushun and traffic
management works in Shenyang. These pilots have allowed each city to gain experience and boost their
confidence and knowledge of these techniques. In Shenyang, several measures were implemented to reduce
traffic conflicts between bicycles and motor vehicles usinig traffic signal phasing. In Fushun, the pilot
intersection is the first in the city to use multi-phase signal phases and channelization.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
During the preparation process, the Bank has encouraged each of the cities to view urban transport system
maniagement as a multi-faceted activity which must include policy reform, management of the road space as
well as road construction, making provision for NMVs and public transport vehicles as well as private
cars, and the need to coordinate all traffic planning and management activities. The Bank has also been
helpful in the mobilization of finance for project preparation, the provision of technical advice to
demonstrate international and domestic best practice, and the provision of advice on project and sector
management.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$629 million; ERR = 34.9 %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
O Other
The estimate of project benefits is based on the evaluation of sub-projects that account for about 78 percent
of the total cost. The principal evaluated benefits were time savings and vehicle operating cost savings to
users of the transport system, including cyclists. Pedestrians would also be significant beneficiaries of the
many of the sub-projects, but lack of data on their numbers precluded a formal estimate of their benefits.
There would be additional benefits from reductions in accidents, particularly to cyclists and pedestrians,
but lack of data also precluded a formal estimate of their magnitude.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):   NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
There are no commercial components included in this project.



Page 18
Fiscal Impact:
Analyses of the fiscal impacts of the project in the three cities included consideration of each city's capacity
to finance the costs of the project, taking into account the positive longer term effects of the project. This
analysis took into account both budgetary and extra budgetary revenues, and expenditures, including debt
finance and on-going maintenance costs. Based on the review of the 1993-2005 city construction budget for
the three cities, the combination of budgetary and extra-budgetary resources dedicated to the project were
found to be sufficient, net of their respective 1998-2005 city construction expenditure programs.
For Shenyang, funds would still be available to finance other construction projects. Projected
resources were found to adequately cover debt service costs during the operating period, with payment
of principal and financing charges peaking at 4.8 and 2.7 of cumulative revenues in the year 1999 and
2004, respectively.
For Fushun, this project will absorb most of the funds available to finance city construction projects.
As a result, the municipal government has agreed that the city construction revenue will not be used to
finance other major construction project during the implementation of this project.
For Anshan, projected resources are also found to adequately cover debt service costs during the
implementing period, with payment of principal and financing charges peaking at 2.7 of cumulative
revenues in the year 2004.
Increasing public funds to road maintenance. Funds for road maintenance are allocated from a municipal
construction fund. The maintenance expenditures of the three municipalities have been reviewed and it has
been agreed that future funds for road maintenance will be increased to sustainable levels. Future
expenditures will be allocated in accordance with the road maintenance plan.
Decreasing subsidies of public transport operations . Currently, the three municipalities provide capital
support and operating subsidies to the public bus companies in each city. Subsidies are financed out of
general funds. The three municipalities have agreed to include reduction of operating subsidies to the bus
companies as a performance indicator for the project.
3. Technical:
A technical review of each of the components was carried out by Bank staff and consultants. Each proposal
was analyzed in terms of its functional design, scale, safety, its social and environmental impacts, and the
institutional and financial arrangements for sustainability. More detailed summaries of the technical review
of the investment proposals are presented below:
Infrastructure: During project preparation, the Bank reviiewed alternatives for all major infrastructure
proposals. To achieve the objectives for most of the proposals (whether rail crossing, missing link,
widening or general upgrading of capacity), grade separation was required so as to assure the safety of
non-motorized travelers. Alternatives analysis included consideration of the operational performance of the
scheme to meet projected motor vehicle demands and to provide for non-motorized and pedestrian traffic. In
many cases, costly and over-designed proposals were scaled down to provide for more modest solutions
without sacrificing project benefits, while preserving options for future improvements. Other design
considerations included minimization of land acquisition, social and environmental impacts.
Safety and design reviews of preliminary designs for the major infrastructure and traffic management
proposals were conducted by local and international consultants in May, 1998, with comments



Page 19
incorporated into designs by July, 1998. Traffic management plans involving NMV and pedestrian
improvements were also reviewed by an international expert in this area and incorporated into the designs.
Public Transport: Public transport proposals were reviewed in two parts: (1) maintenance, and terminal
facilities; and (2) bus-lanes and busways.
Bus maintenance and terminalfacilities. For each city, an analysis of maintenance backlogs and future
needs provided the basis for establishing the demand for facilities performing different classes of
maintenance. In addition, the review considered whether this demand could be provided by the private
sector within a reasonable timeframe (generally not), and how publicly operated maintenance facilities
would be operated (independently and commercially). In most cases, proposals for major repair facilities
were justified (as in Shenyang, where no major repair facility exists for the city's fleet of large buses).
Smaller and lower-class maintenance facilities, proposed in combination with parking or terminal proposals
generally were not considered economic and were rejected. The major repair facility proposed for Bank
financing in Fushun was later withdrawn in favor of local financing.
Proposed terminal facilities were reviewed in Shenyang and Anshan. The Bank supported the public
transport functions of all proposals. These would involve surface terminal facilities serving major bus
routes. Proposals in Shenyang also included parking and maintenance functions which did not appear
economically justified nor financially viable, given the high costs of the proposed underground or
multi-story structures. One very simple joint bus depot and parking facility has also been included in the
project for Shenyang.
Bus-lane and busways. These proposals were analyzed as independent projects and in combination with
the infrastructure investments and traffic management improvements. Most of these facilities will be
combined with other motor vehicle and/or NMV facilities. During project preparation, the technical review
of bus corridor proposals focused on demand on major public transport corridors and consideration of the
location of the bus lanes and busways (i.e., in the center or along the side of the road). Detailed discussions
also examined key operational issues, e.g., how the priority facilities would be used by the bus operators
and the design of junctions and roundabouts. More detailed physical designs will be prepared with the help
of consultants funded by the project.
Traffic Management. Traffic management proposals were grouped in two parts: (1) channelization and
other strategies for modal separation, including development of NMV routes; and (2) traffic control
devices.
Clhannelization and othter circulation/modal separation strategies, including NMV and bus priority
schemes, were prepared by the Public Security Bureau. The strategy to determine the location of
improvements and designs was based on consideration of the overall traffic circulation plan and the
function of adjacent facilities (e.g., MVINMV only pairs). Plans were well developed and Bank staff and
consultant review further strengthened the designs. In order to provide for the sustainability of pedestrian
and NMV improvements, particular attention will be given to pedestrian and NMV facility design in
detailed design, as well as necessary enforcement of their use during project implementation.
There is a high degree of ownership of the traffic control proposals. Bank reviews of the proposals focused
on "right-sizing" the technology used to solve traffic flow and safety problems. For example, in Shenyang,
the Bank team initially considered the proposed area traffic control scheme, with demand-based green-wave
signalization, somewhat advanced for existing needs. However, local experience and satisfaction with an
existing area traffic control system (for the first ring road) and high ownership of the proposed new system



Page 20
(for central area) convinced the Bank that the system would be well used. Specification of the design and
functionality of the system will be developed through proposed TA.
Road maintenance. Ineffective institutional management and low technical capacity in this sector call for
a strategy of piloting maintenance management systems and incremental development of capacity within the
sector through project implementation and training.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Day-to-day implementation will be the responsibility of the municipal Project
Offices under the overall direction of LUCRPO (see Annex 11 for Roles and Responsibilities of project
implementing agencies).
b. Project management: LUCRPO has extensive experience in managing Bank-financed projects. It has
proved very effective and is very knowledgeable. Its staff is very familiar with Bank procedures.
However, additional training will be provided for all staff in both the city and provincial implementation
offices to ensure that all are familiar with the latest Bank procedures.
5. Social:
Separate resettlement plans have been prepared for Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun to mitigate adverse
impacts created by land acquisition. In sum, the project will require acquisition of more than 3,000 mu
(about 190 hectares) of land, will lead to demolition of more than 300,000 square meters of housing and
other structures, will cause the relocation of more than 16,000 persons, and altogether will affect more than
32,000 people.
Each of the three RAPs meets or exceeds Bank resettlement standards, containing specific measures to
promote income restoration or improvement. The RAPs also promote developmental objectives by
contributing to higher living standards among relocated persons, most of whom will move from older,
substandard housing to new housing with modern facilities and improved infrastructure with project
support.
In keeping with increased Bank emphasis upon implementation processes, care has been taken to ensure
that adequate resources have been directed to Bank supervision and independent project monitoring. In
addition, a midterm resettlement review will occur within the first two years of project implementation, to
systematically assess resettlement performance and to modify plans as necessary to improve effectiveness.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category 1S A 1 B  l C
The project is classified as a Category A project according to the World Bank's Environmental Assessment
Operational Directive 4.01. An Environmental Assessment (EA) Report and an Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) was prepared for each of the three cities; Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun. These documents, as well
as a Summary Report were reviewed by the World Bank and were found to meet the requirements of OD
4.01. The EA reports were also reviewed and cleared by the Chinese State Environmental Protection
Administration (SEPA). The Summary Report concludes that the proposed project will assist in providing a
long-term solution to traffic congestion, improve the quality of urban life and stimulate economic
development. The report also notes that the project will result in degradation of environmental quality to
some extent, in the immediate vicinity (-.300 m) of the project areas, but should result in a positive
contribution to pollution control in the overall urban area.
Air quality in all three cities is poor. The daily average concentration of non-methane hydrocarbons



Page 21
(NMHC) exceeded the standards for all readings. Nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels exceeded the daily average
standard 70 percent of the time during the heating season and 30 percent of the time during the non-heating
season. Carbon monoxide (CO) readings were exceeded 32 percent of the time during the heating season.
Improvements in infrastructure is expected to increase vehicular speed and lead to more efficient traffic
movement. As a result, even with growth of the motor vehicle population in all three cities, it is predicted
that the total pollutant emissions of hydrocarbons (HC), CO and NOx will be less after the project. All
three cities recognize that this improvement is temporary, and acknowledge the need for a vehicle emission
control program.
Existing noise levels recorded in all three cities indicate that just over half of the monitoring stations have
levels which exceeded the day-time standards and almost all exceeded the night-time standard. The noise
problem is serious, and will continue to deteriorate as the traffic volume increases. Mitigation measures
will be applied during construction. During the operation phase, measures to be adopted fall into three
categories: planning, noise attenuation measures (use of sound absorption barriers 10 - 15 dB(A)
reduction, double glazed windows 20 - 25 dB(A) reduction) in combination with indoor air conditioning;
and management (maintenance of sound absorption barriers, enforcement of horn use restrictions, testing of
vehicle noise, restriction of heavy-duty traffic, and restrictions of vehicular speed). Compensation may be
applied where the cost of other mitigation is prohibitive or not feasible for technical reasons.
Some trees and green space will be lost due to the project. To compensate. an additional 139,300 m of
green space will be established.
The project has several positive aspects in terms of economic growth and an improvement in the traffic
movement, which will contribute to an improvement in urban air quality. The potential negative effects of
the project include increase in noise levels, some loss of agricultural land, and resettlement. These impacts
are adequately addressed through mitigation and resettlement plans. The improvement in air quality,
however, is temporary and with the growth in motor vehicle population, the traffic will increase, resulting
in eventual increase in congestion and consequent increase in emissions and deterioration of air quality. To
address this, the three cities have agreed to develop and implement vehicle emission control programs.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence: if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
As part of the planning process, planners in each project city performed interviews and surveys of
stakeholders within the affected area of proposed projects. For example, the environmental assessment
included two rounds of public consultation via on-site interviews, informal discussions and surveys to
collect public views on general concerns including those relating to resettlement and the environment. The
public consultation included participation from a range of persons including workers, farmers, students,
business professionals and government employees. A range of age groups was also represented. The
process resulted in development of mitigation measures including re-design of specific project activities.
Approval rates for the project increased from 84 percent, 96 percent, and 90 percent in Shenyang, Anshan,
and Fushun, respectively to 90 percent, 98 percent and 98 percent between the first and second round
interviews.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Not applicable.



Page 22
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will depend on the quality of project implementation, the success of institutional
reforms and the adequacy of available finance to support ongoing project operating and maintenance
costs. Continued reforms in public transit, road maintenance and sector coordination are especially
critical to ensure long-term benefits of the project. Sustainability will also depend in part upon the
compatibility of local land use planning and pricing policies, which are outside of the project's direct
scope.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Effective management and finance          N         Strengthened project and financial
falters in project implementation into              management, annual work plan,
operational phase                                   monitoring of performance and
monitoring indicators.
Inadequate network restructuring and      N         Effectiveness condition for
terminal planning, enforcement of                   commencement of TA for bus schemes.
public transit priority facilities; delay in        A commitment to reduce subsidies was
reform agenda threatens sustainability              reached during negotiations and is
of project investments.                             included within the performance
indicators. Dated covenant on study of
public transport operations and
management.
Generated demand erodes benefits of       N         Traffic growth is slow, will be
road improvements                                   monitored. Dated covenant on parking
study and implementation.
Vehicle emissions strategy is enforced    M         Dated covenant on vehicle emissions
study and implementation.
Maintenance budgets are inadequate to     M         Commitment on increased maintenance
meet needs                                          funding reached during negotiations and
reflected in performance indicators
Staff knowledge gained is incorporated    N
into professional practice
From Components to Outputs
Cooperation of project and relevant       N
non-project municipal agencies
continues
Local support for all project             N
components is ensured.
Overall Risk Rating                       N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 23
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Standard Conditions of effectiveness and Project Implementation Agreements between Liaoning Province
and each Project City.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated covenants for:
(i) Progress Reports. By December 15 of each year, furnish an annual work plan covering the following
twelve months to the Bank for its review and comment. Also, to prepare quarterly reports, annual reports
and a mid-term report integrating the results for the project monitoring activities.
(ii) Parking Study. By December 31, 2000, to complete a parking study for three cities which shall make
recommendations concerning the implementation of a management system, including pricing, of both
on-street and off-street parking spaces which can be implemented within a reasonable time in accordance
with an action plan acceptable to the Bank.
(iii) Emission Control Study. By December 31, 2001, to complete the development of a strategy for the
control of emissions from vehicles in Liaoning which can be implemented in a reasonable time in
accordance with an action plan acceptable to the Bank. Implementation of the motor vehicle emissions
control strategy for each project city by December 31, 2002.
(iv) Public Transport Operating Policy: By December 31, 2000 to complete a study to review the
experience of public transport operating reform in the three cities, collect and review experience in other
cities in China, and to prepare a strategy for the development of public transport, including operating
policies and regulations in the project cities.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
L 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
X 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The bidding documents for the first year's procurement activities are all available with the exception of two
ICB contracts for which pre-qualification documents have been received.



Page 24
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies witi
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jitendra N. Bajpai                 Yuko      ang 
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director             Country Manager/Director



Page 25                                             Annex I
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improve the productivity of   Improved service levels and   Annual project reports with   City economic development
the urban transport system to  efficiencies of public transport perfornance indicators.  and restructuring efforts
facilitate economic        operations.                                            maintain or generate
development and improved                                                          economic growth.
quality of life.
Improved operational       Annual Review               Land use and pricing policies
efficiency and safety of                               are complimentary with
existing roadways.                                     transport policies and
investments.
Reduced infrastructure     Mid-Term Review             Effective management and
bottlenecks.                                           finance continue beyond
project implementation into
operational phase.
Improved road maintenance.  Annual Review
Enhanced local capacities and Implementation Completion
improved decision-making.   Report
Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Bus priority schemes       Increased average bus speeds  PO to monitor project progress Effective network
operating; improved        and vehicle availability    and submit quarterly progress restructuring and terminal
maintenance condition of   combined with lower average  reports.                  planning, enforcement of
vehicles.                  operating subsidies,                                   public transit priority
increased length of operating                          facilities. Progress with reform
routes.                                                agenda.
Traffic management and     Increased throughput        Bank to conduct regular    Generated demand does not
safety program operational   combined with limited     supervision missions.      erode benefits of road
and maintaining acceptable   degradation of service                               improvements (future demand
levels of service.         (maintain or improve average                           managed adequately).
operating speeds).
Reduced fatalities, including
pedestrian and bicycle deaths.
Primary road network       Decreased journey times.    Joint review of project
providing high-capacity                                progress to take place
cross-town service.                                    annually and at the project
mid-term.



Page 26                                           Annex I
Pilot maintenance         Adequate funding for                                  Maintenance budgets are
management system under    maintenance.                                         adequate to meet needs.
implementation.           Increase in share of roads in
good condition combined with
reduced average maintenance
costs.
Vehicle emissions control    Motor Vehicle Emission                             Vehicle emissions strategy is
strategy adopted.         Control is implemented.                               enforced.
Institutional strengthening    Quality of projects                              Staff knowledge gained is
and technical assistance                                                        incorporated into professional
program completed.                                                              practice.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
Public Transport          US$24.5 million            LUCRPO and POs maintain   Cooperation of project and
monthly progress reports.    relevant non-project municipal
agencies continues
Traffic Management        US$28.6 million            LUCRPO provides Bank with Local support for all project
quarterly progress reports    components is ensured.
which compare planned and
actual progress for each
component in terms of cost
and physical works.
Infrastructure            US$291.8 million           Monthly disbursement reports
which compare planned with
actual disbursements by
component.
Road Maintenance          US$3 1 million             Semiannual financial
management report
Institutional Strengthening    US$6.5 million        Annual audit report
Performance indicator
Total                     US$ 382.4 million          I



Page 27                                        Annex 2
Annex 2: Project Description
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$167.6 million
SHENYANG
Public Transport (SYPT) - US$10.09 million
The public transport sub-component is designed to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public
transport services through the development of bus priority facilities, and the provision of modern
maintenance facilities and equipment.
*   SYPT/I 1.0 - Bus Maintenance Repair Facility -- works to construct a 60,274 square meter bus
maintenance repair facility to provide facilities for medium and major repair services for 1000
buses per annum and overnight parking.
*   SYPT/2 1.0 - Bus Maintenance Equipment -- equipment for the bus maintenance repair facility
described above.
*   SYPT/12.0 - Da Dongmen Bus Terminal -- works to construct a 4082 square meter bus terminal
facility to serve three bus routes and provide parking for 150 buses and cars.
*   SYPT/22.0 - Da Dongmen Bus Terminal Equipment -- equipment for the Da Dongmen Bus
Terminal, described above.
?   SYPT - Project Management. Shenyang municipality and its public utility agencies will finance the
costs associated with the design, supervision and implementation of this sub-component.
Traffic Management (SYTM) US$20.21 million
The objective of this sub-component is to improve the operational efficiency and safety of the road system
through junction channelization, the provision of NMV and bus priority facilities, the provision of modern
traffic control facilities, and other traffic management measures.
*   SYRM/1 1.0/TM - Traffic Management (Phase 1) -- works for the improvement of 4.4 km of
roadway, including the construction of NMV facilities along two roads, nine junction
channelizations, the widening of two roads, and the construction of three missing-links.
*   SYRM/12.0/TM - Traffic Management (Phase 2) -- works for the provision of 15.5 km of NMV
facilities along four roads.
*   SYRM/13.0/TM - Traffic Management (Phase 3) -- works for the provision of a 2.5 km NMV
roadway and the widening of one road.
*   SYRM/14.0/TM - Traffic Management (Phase 4) -- works with a total length of 3.5 km including
the widening of two roads and the construction of one missing-link.



Page 28                                        Annex 2
*   SYTM/2 1.0 - Traffic Engineering Equipment -- hardware and equipment including traffic signals,
signs, road markings, barriers and street furniture to support junction channelizations, pedestrian
improvement along 27 roads and NMV facilities along three roads.
*   SYTM/22.0 - Traffic Management Equipment -- hardware and equipment for traffic management
improvements (e.g., traffic signals, signs, and road markings) along 11 routes (including NMV
facilities along three roads, the provision of signs for bus lanes and seven motor-vehicle roads).
*   SYTM/23.0 - General Traffic Management Equipment -- equipment to support road management,
incident detection, and the rehabilitation and extension of the area traffic control system.
*   SYTM - Project Management. The Shenyang municipality and its public security agencies will
finance the costs of design, supervision and management for this sub-component.
Road Infrastructure (SYRI) US$113.49 million
The objectives of this sub-component are to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks and to improve the
operational efficiency of the road network through development of high-grade road facilities, improved
secondary roads, rail crossings, missing-links, and the widening of existing roads.
*   SYRI/I 1.0 - Pangjiang Street and Lianhe Road --- works to widen and construct 8 km. of roadway
in two corridors:
Pangiiang Jie is one of the few low capacity sections of the first ring road.
Lianhe Road is one of the most important east-west corridors within the city. This
improvement will increase bus operating speeds and reliability through the provision of an
exclusive center of the road busway within a major public transport corridor between the
Shenyang South Station and Shenyang North Station. It will also reduce congestion on
existing east/west corridors by attracting through traffic now using the Shifu Corridor, as well
as to improving access to development areas for general traffic and for public transport to the
Beizhan and Xita development areas.
*   SYRI/12.0 - Gonghe Railway Overpass and Changjiang Underpass -- works to construct a 1.6 km
road including the provision of the:
Gonghe railway overpass which will provide a much needed crossing of the rail tracks.
Changiang underpass to carry north/south truck and automobile traffic across the rail tracks.
*   SYRI/ 13.0 - Gonghe Interchange -- works to construct 2 km of new roadway and an interchange
which will connect the Gonghe Railway Overpass with Shifu Road, Lianhe Road and Shengli Jie.
These form parts of major east-west and north-south road corridors within the city.
*   SYRI/14.0 - Beiyi Road -- works to construct a 4 km roadway. Shenyang has been divided by
railways into three parts: the Tiexi, Tiedong and north areas. This component will provide a higher
capacity east-west connection between Tiexi and Tiedong, by providing improved road access and
allow better integration of the city's public transport network.
*   SYRI/1 5.0 - Jianshe and Nanwu Road -- works to construct 4 km of urban roadway. This elevated



Page 29                                       Annex 2
road includes a railway overpass designed to relieve a critical bottleneck created by the Shenda
Rail Line which divides the Tiexi and Heping districts.
*   SYRI/1 6.0 - Fangxing Square Interchange -- works to construct the Fangxing Square interchange
which will connect Janshe and Nanwu viaduct to four other roads (three east-west roads and one
north-south road).
*   SYRI - Land Acquisition and Resettlement -- land acquisition (1,081 mu) and the resettlement of
people (21,977 affected people), businesses, enterprises and public facilities (169,685 sq. m.
housing demolished).
*   SYRI - Project Management. Shenyang municipality and construction agencies will finance the
costs of design, supervision and management for this sub-component.
Road Maintenance (SYRM) US$21.69 million
The objective of this sub-component is to improve maintenance of roads through the development of
modernized and sustainable pavement management practices.
*   SYRM/I .0/RM - Road Maintenance (Phase 1) -- repaving and reconstruction of 14.32 km of
roadway along 12 routes.
*   SYRM/12.0/RM - Road Maintenance (Phase 2)-- repaving and reconstruction of 15.34 km of
roadway along 12 routes.
* SYRM/1 3.0/RM - Road Maintenance (Phase 3) -- repaving and reconstruction of 19.12 km of
roadway along 18 routes.
*   SYRM/14.0/RM - Road Maintenance (Phase 4) -- repaving and reconstruction of 1.9 km roadway
along one route.
*   SYRM/21.0 - Road Maintenance Equipment -- road maintenance equipment, including rollers,
loaders, a crane, a paver and crack sealer, and other vehicles.
*   SYRM - Project Management. Shenyang municipality and its construction agencies will finance
the costs of design, supervision and implementation for this sub-component.
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance (US$2.13 million)
The objectives and scope of this sub-component are more fully explained in Annex 2A
*   SYTA/3 1.0 - International TA.
* SYTA - Domestic TA.



Page 30                                        Annex 2
Project Component 2 - US$93.4 million
Fushun
Public Transport (US$1.84 million)
The public transport sub-component is designed to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public
transport services through the development of bus priority corridors and facilities and the provision of
modern bus maintenance equipment.
*   FSTM/1 L.0/PT - Public Transport -- works to construct a 2.3 km. of bus lane along Xinfu Road.
*   FSRM/1 1.0/PT - Public Transport -- works to construct a 3 km bus lane along Yongji Road.
* FSRM/13.0/PT - Public Transport -- works to provided a 1.3 km bus lane along Liquan Road.
*   FSPT/2 1.0 - Equipment for Bus Depot -- modern maintenance equipment for a local bus depot.
e   FSPT - Project Management -- The Fushun Municipality and its public transport agency will
finance the associated with the design and implementation of this sub-component.
Traffic Management (US$3.35 million)
The objective of the sub-component is to improve the operational efficiency and safety of the road system
through improved junction channelization, the development of NMV and bus priority facilities, improved
traffic signal control, and the provision of other traffic management measures.
*   FSTM/I 1.0/TM - Traffic Management -- works in two road corridors and one sub-area of the
city, including 17 junction improvements (signs and markings, channelization etc.).
3   FSTM/2 1.0 - Traffic Management Equipment -- traffic management equipment including items for
enforcement, towing, traffic control, and incident management.
*   FSTM - Project Management -- costs of design, supervision and implementation of this
sub-component will be financed by Fushun municipality and its public security agency.
Road Infrastructure (US$81.12 million)
The objectives of this sub-component are to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks and to imiprove the
operational efficiency of the road network through the development of high-grade road facilities, improved
secondary roads, rail crossings, missing-links, and the widening of existing roads.
Specifically, the project will finance improvements along the Hunhenan Corridor, with a total length of
24.8 km. The project will develop an 18.5 km expressway along the south bank of the Hun River, from
Hunhe Bridge to Wanxin Bridge, and reconstruct an 18.3 km parallel local road from Gucheng Bridge to
Dongzhou Bridge, which will include separate facilities for motor vehicles, buses and NMVs. The project
will also finance connections from Hunhenan Road to a number of development areas (two economic
development zones, two industrial area, one residential area, the railway station, the new Wanxin
government center area), and a new Wanxin bridge and interchange.



Page 31                                       Annex 2
*   FSRI/I 1.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to construct the 2.27 km expressway from Gebu Bridge to
Jiangjun Bridge, and an interchange at Changchun Bridge.
*   FSRI/12.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to construct the 1.2 km expressway and widen the local
road from Xinhua Bridge to Changchun Bridge.
*   FSRI/13.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to construct the 3.9 km expressway road from Heping
Bridge to Gucheng Bridge.
*   FSRI/14.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to construct an interchange at Guchenlglelkou Bridge.
*   FSRI/ 15.0 - Hunhenan Road-- works to widen the 2.27 km local road from Gebu Bridge to
Jiangjun Bridge, construct a 2.25 km expressway and widen the local road from Jiangjun Bridge to
Xinhua Bridge, to upgrade Xinhua Bridge. and provide a 3.43 km expressway and widen the local
road from Gucheng Bridge to Gebu Bridge.
*   FSRI/1 6.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to construct the Wanxin Bridge and its southern interchange,
and connections to the new resettlement area.
*   FSRI/17.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to construct a 2.85 km expressway and widen the local road
from Changchun Bridge to Wanxin Bridge.
*   FSRI/1 8.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to widen the 6.3 km local road from Wanxin Bridge to
Dongzhou Bridge, the southern interchange of Hunhe Bridge, and the southern interchange of H
eping Bridge.
*   FSRI/19.0 - Hunhenan Road -- works to construct a 2.6 km expressway from Hunhe Bridge to
Heping Bridge.
FSTM/I I.0/RI - Road Infrastructure -- works to construct a missing link on Xifuping Road (I km)
and to widen Wugong and Xisan Streets (1.48 kin).
* FSRM/I I.0/RI - Road Infrastructure - works to construct 1.65 km of Ningyuan Street.
e   FSRI - Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The constructioni of the urban roads will involve land
acquisition (796 mu) and the resettlement of people (8,633 affected people), businesses, enterprises
and public facilities (134,205 sq. m. housing to be demolished).
*   FSRI - Land Acquisition and Resettlement for the missing link on Xifuping Road. The construction
of urban roads will involve the resettlement of people (213 affected people), businesses, enterprises
and public facilities (2200 sq. m. housing to be demolished).
* FSRI - Project Management. Fushun municipality and its construction agencies will finance the
costs of design, supervision and implementation management for this sub-component.
Road Maintenance (US$4.95 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to improve maintenance of roads through the development of
modernized and sustainable pavement management practices.



Page 32                                        Annex 2
* FSRM/I I .O/RM - Road Maintenance -- works to repave and reconstruct 1.76 km of Yongning
Street.
*   FSRM/12.0 - Suihua Road Maintenance -- works to repave and reconstruct 6.4 km of Suihua
Road.
* FSRM/1 3.0/RM - Road Maintenance -- works to repave and reconstruct 2.32 km of Beizhen
Street.
*   FSTM/1 I.O/RM - Road Maintenance -- works to repave and reconstruct 5 km of Heping Road.
*   FSRM/2 1.0 - Road Maintenance Equipment -- modern road maintenance equipment including
maintenance vehicles.
*   FSRM- Project Management (US$0.30 million). Fushun municipality and its construction agencies
will finance the cost of design, supervision and implementation for this sub-component.
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance (US$2.18 million)
The objectives and scope of this sub-component are more fully explained in Annex 2A.
*   FSTA/3 1.0 - International TA
* FSTA- Domestic TA
Project Component 3 - USS 121.3 million
Anshan
Public Transport (US$12.59 million)
The public transport sub-component is designed to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of public
transport services through development of bus and tram corridors, and the provision of more modern
facilities and equipment.
*   ASPT/I 1.0 - Tram Upgrading -- works to upgrade a 5.2 km roadway which provides an exclusive
right of way for tram operations.
*   ASTM/I 1.0/PT - Public Transport -- works to provide a 7,706 square meter Wuyi bus transfer
facility.
* ASPT/12.0 - Tram/BuslNMV-Only Road -- works to construct 4.8 km of exclusive busway on
Shengli road, 0.6 km of bus and NMV-only roacl on Renmin Road, and a 1.0 km tram and
NMV-only route along Zhonghua Road.
*   ASPT/2 1.0 - Tram Upgrading Equipment -- equipment to upgraded tram operations.
*   ASPT - Project Management. Anshan municipality and its construction and public utility agencies
will finance the costs of the design, supervision and implementation of this sub-component.



Page 33                                        Annex 2
Traffic Management (US$4.98 million)
The objective of the sub-component is to improve operational efficiency and safety of the road system
through improved junction channelization, the development of NMV and bus priority facilities, improved
traffic signal control, and the provision of other traffic management measures.
*   ASTM/1 1.0/TM - Bus Transfer/Channelization/Off-street Parking -- works to chaninelize eight
junctions and provide 14,320 square meters of off-street surface parking.
*   ASTM/12.0/TM - NMV Exclusive Road -- works to construct 3.97 km of NMV exclusive road.
*   ASTM/2 1.0 - Traffic Management Equipment -- traffic engineering equipment such as signs, road
marking equipment, and median and pedestrian dividers.
*   ASTM/22.0 - Traffic Management Equipment -- traffic engineering equipment such as signs, road
marking equipment, and median and pedestrian dividers.
*   ASTM/23.0 - Special-use Vehicles -- road marking, towing and signal maintenance vehicles.
*   ASTM - Project Management. Anshan municipality and its public security agencies will finance
the costs of design, supervision and implementation of this sub-component.
Road Infrastructure (US$97.23 million)
The objectives of this sub-component are to alleviate infrastructure bottlenecks and to improve the
operational efficiency of the road network through development of high grade road facilities, improved
secondary roads, the provision of rail crossings and missing-links, and the widening of selected roads.
*   ASRI/I 1.0 - South Ring Road -- works to construct a 1.4 km southern section of the Ring Road
which will provide a link to the Sifangtai Economic Development Zone and improve connections to
the southern parts of the Tiexi District, and three other economic development zones.
*   ASRI/12.0 - Zhonghua Road and Yuanlin Road -- works to reconstruct 0.43 km of Zhonghua R
oad, and 1.53 km of Yuanlin Road. This improvement will permit the diversion of traffic from
Zhonghua Road to the Yuanlin Road and the South Ring Road corridor, thus enabling the
designation of Zhonghua Lu as a tram/NMV only road.
*   ASRI/13,0 - Wuyi Interchange -- works to construct the Wuyi interchange at the junction of the
major north-south and east-west corridors within the city. The proposed design is a two-level
interchange which alleviates severe congestionl at this major junction of two existing arterial roads.
*   ASRI/14.0 - Huangang Road and Yongchang Street -- works to reconstruct and widen 3.26 km. of
the Huangang/Yongchang corridor which serves as the major east-west arterial corridor through
the center of Anshan.
* ASRI/15.0 - South Jianguo Road -- works to reconstruct a 4.3 km section of Jianguo Road.
*   ASRI/1 6.0 - North Jianguo Road -- works to improve a 4.1 km section of North Jianguo Road



Page 34                                        Annex 2
which will provide a high-capacity north-south corridor for traffic passing through the city.
*   ASRI/ 1 7.0 - Laodong Road and Hebei Road and Shahe Bridge -- works to reconstruct the 1.8 km
Laodong Road and construct Shahe Bridge, thereby providing a truck route between Lianshan
Industry Development Zone and the Jianguo Road corridor, and an alternative route to Shengli
Road. Construction of a 1.05 km section of Hebei Road is also included in this sub-component.
*   ASRI - Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The construction of the urban roads will involve land
acquisition (1,382 mu) and the resettlement of people (1,774 affected people), businesses,
enterprises and public facilities (1,382 sq. m housing to be demolished).
*   ASRI - Project Management. Anshan municipality and its construction agencies will finance the
costs of design, supervision and implementation of this sub-component.
Road Maintenance (US$ 4.38 million)
The objective of this sub-component is to improve maintenance of roads through the development of
modernized and sustainable pavement management practices.
*   ASRM/I 1.0 - Hongqi Road -- works to repave and reconstruct 4 km of Hongqi road.
O   ASTM/12.0/RM - Pedestrian sidewalk maintenance -- works to provide 62,946 square meters of
sidewalk improvements.
* ASRM - Project Management. Anshan municipality and its construction agencies will finance
administrative costs including design, supervision and implementation management for this
sub-component.
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance (US$2.17 million)
The objectives and scope of this sub-component are more fully explained in Annex 2A
* ASTA/3 1.0 - International TA.
* ASTA - Domestic TA.
Project Numbering Scheme:
Shenvang Component
SYPT Public Transport
SYTM Traffic Management
SYRI Road Infrastructure
SYRM Road Maintenance
SYTA Technical Assistance
Fushun Component
FSPT Public Transport



Page 35                                        Annex 2
FSTM Traffic Management
FSRI Road Infrastructure
FSRM Road Maintenance
FSTA Technical Assistance
Anshan Component
ASPT Public Transport
ASTM Traffic Management
ASRI Road Infrastructure
ASRM Road Maintenance
ASTA Technical Assistance
Annex 2A: Project Description
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance Sub-Component
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen local capacity for urban transport system management
through study tours, technical assistance, and targeted training. The costs have been indicated under the
components of the municipalities. The activities financed in the sub-component will include:
I  international consultant and local expert support for bid document preparation,
2. international consultant and local team cooperation on construction supervision,
3. a MV emission control strategy (MVECS) study and follow-up actions,
4. a bus exclusive ways design study,
5. a study of development of the road maintenance plan,
6. a traffic signal control system study,
7. study of public transport policy and regulations,
8. a study of parking policy and management,
9. a study of the traffic accidents,
10. domestic training in urban transport development (various topics),
11. international training in urban transport development (various topics),
12. office equipment.
LUCRPO is responsible for coordinating all activities within this sub-component unless otherwise noted.
The implementation agencies and their participation in the sub-component are as follows:
Provincial Level.
A. Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office is responsible for coordinating
the following TA activities.
I. International consultants to assist with bid document preparation.
2. International consultants to assist with construction supervision.
3. International consultants for seven studies.
4. Domestic training in areas including project management, construction supervision,
financial management and procurement.
5. International training including all aspects related with urban transport management.
6. Purchase of office equipment.



Page 36                                          Annex 2
B. Liaoning Financial Bureau (LFB).
1. Domestic training for project financial management.
2. International training for project and financial management, and urban transport
investment analysis.
C. Liaoning Planning Bureau (LPB).
1. Domestic training on urban and transport planning.
2. International training on urban and transport planning, and urban road investment
planning.
D. Liaoning Environment Protection Bureau.
1. Participating in the MVECS study.
2. Participating in domestic and international training on environment assessment.
Municipal Level. The three municipal governments, will provide counterpart funds for these activities.
The three project offices will be responsible for selection and management of local teams.
A. City Transport Management Committees.
1. Participating and coordinating urban transport related policies studies.
2. Participating in domestic and international training on coordination of the urban transport
system including urban planning, urban transport policies, urban transport design and
operation.
B. Project Offices.
1. Responsible for organizing local design teams for bidding document preparation, and
construction supervision teams.
2. Providing counterpart staff for seven studies.
3. Participating in domestic and international training.
4. Equipment including computers, software and office equipment.
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlement Offices will participate in domestic and international
training on resettlement.
D. Environmental Protection Bureaus.
1. Participating in MVECS study.
2. Participating in domestic and international training on environment assessment.
E. Municipal Design and Research Institutes.
1. Participating in training for preparation of contract documentation.
2. Participating in the construction supervision training activities.
3. Participating in studies related to urban construction design and construction.
4. Participating in domestic and international training on urban planning, transport planning,
urban transport design and construction.
F. Public Transport Companies.
1. Participating in public transport studies.
2. Participating in domestic and international training on public transport.
3. Provided with some office equipment.
G. Municipal Urban Traffic Brigades.
1. Participating in signal control system and parking studies.
2. Participating in domestic and international training on traffic management.



Page 37                                         Annex 2
H. Municipal Maintenance Departments.
1. Participating in road maintenance study.
2. Participating in domestic and international training on road mailitenanice.
3. Provided with some office equipment.
Annex 2B: Liaoning Motor Vehicles Emissions
Control Strategy (MVECS) Study
The three project cities - Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun - recognize that ultimately. uLichiecked growtih in
motor vehicles fleet will lead to reduced vehicle speed and increase in congestion. This will cancel out the
benefits of the project. The cities therefore recognize the need to implement controls on vehicle emissionis.
The proposed Motor Vehicle Emission Control Strategy (MVECS) has been developed in
recognition of the fact that the sustained growth of the vehicle fleet size demands must lead to more vehicle
emissions unless an appropriate emission reduction strategy is implemented. In similar circumstances, other
cities, both domestically and internationally, have committed themselves to the implementationi of MVECS.
The Province enjoys some lead time because of the long turnover time of the vehicles in the fleet. IloN ever,
it is prudent to begin the preparation of the strategy as soon as possible.
The Liaoning MVECS was developed in consultation with the Bank and is designed to take advantage of
the experience of other cities in China, as well as international technological expertise. The objective is to
develop strategies and provide a strong foundation for the program to address the problem of increasing air
pollution from mobile sources. The proposed program will include: implementation of the national unleaded
fuel program; establishment of a vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) system (monitoring and
enforcement of the motor vehicle standards); establishment of a Vehicle Emission Research Center
(development of stringent motor vehicle emission control standards and regulations; introduction of
catalytic converters; engine improvements; development of clean or alternative fuel technologies); and
expansion of the automated monitoring network to monitor air pollution. If the program is implemented as
envisaged, the l/M program is expected to reduce mobile source contribution to the overall air pollution by
30-40 percent over a five-year period. The remaining components of MVECS are longer term: to train
staff; conduct research to support new initiatives (promotion of public transportation; increase of motor
vehicle speeds (i.e. eliminate bottlenecks); limit on the size of the motor vehicle fleet; and retirement of aged
vehicles); and understand the dynamics of air quality in the cities and the contribution of vehicle emissions
to the overall air pollution.
As part of the MVECS, a workshop will bring participants together from the three cities, the National and
Provincial Governments, other cities and external participants. The proposed workshop is seen to be an
excellent way to share knowledge and identify the more successful stratagems.
The development of the MVECS is scheduled to begin late in 1999, but it should be noted that the
compilation of emissions information during the preparation of the EAs for the LUTP represents a
substantial step towards the program objectives. It is notable that the concept of an MVECS program was
developed during the course of the environmental assessment, and that it is to some extent a proactive
initiative.



Page 38                                       Annex 3
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Shenyang                                                    91.3          62.2         153.5
Fushun                                                      45.6          37.2         82.8
Anshan                                                      69.1          40.5         109.6
Total Baseline Cost                                        206.0         139.9         345.9
Physical Contingencies                                     11.2          13.4         24.6
Price Contingencies                                         5.6           6.3          11.9
Total Project Costs              222.8         159.6         382.4
Front-end fee                      1.5           1.5
Total Financing Required          |   222.8          161.1        383.9
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                            2.5          22.4         24.9
Works                                                          122.3         134.2        256.5
Services                                                         0.6           5.9          6.5
Training                                                         0.0           0.0          0.0
Other                                                           94.5           0.0         94.5
Total ProjectCosts        219.9         162.5         382.4
Front-end fee                       1.5           1.5
Total Financing Required        219.9         164.0        383.9



Page 39                                         Annex 3
Project Costs by Activity for each City
1      : |China     I           I
Liaonina urban Transport Project
Components by Financiers
(US$ M)
Indicative   Percentage   Bank  % of Bank
Costs (SM)  of Total  Financing  Financing
A. Shenyang
Public Transport        10.09         3%        5.6      56%
Traffic Management      20.21         5%        12        59%
Road Infrustracture    113.49        30%       35.8      32%
Road Maintenance        21.69         6%       10.2      47%
Technical Assistant      2.13         1 %       1.7       80%
Subtotal Shenyang                167.61        44%      65.3       39%
B. Fushun         l
Public Transport          1.84        0%        1.1       38%
Traffic Management        3 35 1_%              2.3       88%
Road Infrustracture     81.12        21%       32.1      39%
Road Maintenance         4.95         1%        2.7      50%
Technical Assistant       2.18        1%        1.7       78%
Subtotal Fushun   T               93.44        24%      39.9       43%
C. Anshan I
Public Transport        12.59         3%         7       56%
Traffic Management       4.98         1%        3.1      62%
Road Infrustracture     97.23        25%       29.5      30%
Road Maintenance         4.38         1%        1.9      43%
Technical Assistant       2.17        1%        1.8       83%
Subtotal Anshan   |              121.35        32%      43.3       36%
Total Project                     382.4       100%     148.5       39%
Front End Fee                       1.5                   1.5
Total Project Cost                383.9 _150



Page 40                                         Annex 4
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Units are in $US millions:
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial
Analysis       Analysis'       Taxes      Subsidies
!Benefits:             880.0
Costs:                254.0
Net Benefits:         626.0
IRR:         |       34.9%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Project selection
The Project includes investments in, and improvements to, the operation of the urban transport system.
Investments include junction improvements, road maintenance and reconstruction, construction of cycle
routes and "missing links" in the road network, designation of, and adapting infrastructure for, bus-only
lanes and equipment for traffic management. Operational changes include institutional reform and
strengthening, new traffic operation and maintenance procedures and new traffic safety enforcement
actions. Where possible, for each identified infrastructure or operational problem alternative solutions were
identified and compared on the basis of a subjective assessment that took account of the costs of
implementation and operation and the potential benefits to road or public transport users.
The evaluation of alternative solutions to each infrastructure problem was informed by a detailed
description of the problem, with data on traffic, cyclists and pedestrians presently using the facility deemed
to be the problem. Site visits were made by the study team before alternative solutions were prepared and
assessed.
Project Evaluation
The selected alternative to address each problem was compared through a cost benefit analysis with
continuing with the present infrastructure or operating methods. The benefits taken into account in the
analysis were reductions in vehicle operating costs, savings in time to vehicle occupants and cyclists (and to
pedestrians at intersections where improvements were proposed), while the costs were those of
implementation and operation. Given the high projected rate of growth of private motorized transport, the
benefits were assessed over a period ofjust 15 years, compared with the more usual 20 or 25 years for
transport infrastructure projects. Sensitivity tests were made with shorter periods of 10 and 5 years,
particularly to take account of the limited capacity increase from junction improvements.
Benefits to cyclists were assessed rather differently. Although overall cyclists are expected to benefit from
the project, some of the specific sub-projects will result in them suffering time delays as priority is given to
motorized traffic. In addition, some of the cycle routes will result in disbenefits to some cyclists who



Page 41                                         Annex 4
presently use streets from which they will be banned during the peak traffic periods for motorized vehicles
(usually later than the cycle peak period). So for cyclists an assessment was made of the overall time saving
from the implementation of the package of measures for each city.
Full economic evaluations were made for project sub-components that account for about 78 percent of the
total project costs. Excluded sub-components were those that have not yet been sufficiently defined for their
costs and benefits to be estimated (the most significant of these is the proposed bus priority scheme in
Shenyang), area-wide traffic management schemes, off-street car parking facilities, equipment for road
nmaintenance, institutional strengthening and technical assistance.
Main Assumptions:
Deo1and projectionis
Projections were made of population, employment and car ownershiip growth, and on the basis of these,
estimates were made of the growth in private motorized traffic and bus passengers, and the decline in the
use of cycles. No estimate was made of the impact of the proposed cycle ways on increasing the future use
of cycles. The demand for travel by personal motorized travel was projected to increase at an average of 6
percent per year for the 15-year analysis period, while bus travel would increase by 8 percent per year,
but cycle use would decline by 2.5 percent per year and walk trips by 3 percent per year.
Value of tine savin7gs
The estimated value of time savings to the beneficiary were based on their projected personal incomes. For
behavioral analyses, projecting how users of the transport system would react to changes in infrastructure,
drivers of private motorized vehicles were assumed to have five times the average personal income, while
all other beneficiaries were assumed to have the average wage. The value of time savings for business
travel was assumed to be 1.5 times the relevant wage rate, to take account of non-wage costs to employers,
whereas for non-business travel the value was assumed to be 35 percent of the relevant wage rate. For
evaluation purposes, business travel time savings were valued at the same rate as for behavioral analysis,
but for people traveling for purposes other than business, time savings for all road users were valued at 35
percent of the average value of non-work time. This difference was based on an equity argument, that the
social value of non-work time is the same for everyone and not dependent on income.
Value of travel time savings
Units       Behavioral   Evaluation
value        value
Income                                               7.1          7.1
National average
Estimated car occupants income    Yuan/hour      35.3          35.3
Estimated other travelers' income    Yuan/hour     7.1          7.1
Value of time
Business travel by car occupants    Yuan/hour     35.3         35.3
Other business travelers                   7.1          7.1



Page 42                                        Annex 4
Non-business travel by car    Yuan/hour     12.4         3.0
occupants
Other non-business travel    Yuan/hour     2.5          3.0
Vehicle operating costs (VOC)
Estimates of vehicle operating costs were derived from the HDM-HPFP model. The revisions to the data
from the model were to take account of the unusual cost figures for China, in which fixed costs and
materials costs assume a higher proportion than in other countries, as well as of the smaller than usual size
of vehicles used in urban areas in China compared with other countries. The VOC for each type of vehicle
(car, bus and truck) were expressed as formulae that took account of road and traffic conditions through
parameters for road surface roughness and traffic speed.
Economic evaluation results
Three indices of economic performance were applied to each sub-component of the project, the results
being summed or averaged as appropriate to give the relevant values for each city. For sensitivity tests, the
values are reported for only one index, the MERR (modified economic rate of return). The modification to
the standard measure assumes that the project benefits can be reinvested at the average rate of return on
public sector investments, assumed to be 12 percent, and not at the rate of return of the investment being
evaluated. This modification does not change the ranking of sub-components but increases the estimated
ERR values below the average rate of 12 percent and reduces those above it. The other economic
performance indices used were the standard ERR (economic rate of return) and the NPV (net present value,
assuming a discount rate of 12).
Evaluation results by citv
Shenyang      Anshan       Fushun       Project
Net present value    US$258m     US$169m      US$199m      US$626m
Modified ERR         16.7%        20.8%        19.8%        17.4%
Basic ERR            32.2%        42.8%        449%         34.9%
Distribution of benefits
About 72 percent of the benefits are expected to come froim vehicle operating cost savings, about 25
percent from time savings and the balance from reduced investment in buses (through higher availability of
existing buses with the Shenyang garage in operation). While cars are expected to increase to about 11
percent of total daily traffic (vehicle-km) in the period up to 2015, they are projected to receive about 53
percent of the project benefits. Buses will make up about 25 percent of traffic and bus passengers will
receive about 24 percent of benefits. Commercial vehicles will make up about 54 percent of traffic and
receive about 17 percent of benefits. Cyclists will account for about 21.5 percent of person trips and
receive about 6 percent of benefits. Of the benefits to private vehicles, about one quarter will be in time
savings and the remainder in operating cost savings. For bus passengers, about 30 percent of the benefits
will be time savings, the remainder being fare savings (assuming that fares are set in proportion to bus



Page 43                                        Annex 4
operating costs). The only quantified benefits for cyclists were time savings. Since the bus priority
schemes to be included in the project have not yet been specified, they were not included on the economic
evaluation. They are expected to result in considerable additional benefits to bus passengers, and
disbenefits to other motorized vehicles, so the final distribution of benefits between different types of
vehicles and their occupants are likely to be quite different to those shown here.
Distribution of benefits (based on thre present value of user benefits)
Basic      Lower value of   Zero value of   Lower Vehicle
time           time         Operating
costs
Car occupants                53.4%          51.2%           52.1%          53.4%
Public transport passengers  22.8%          26.0%           21.4%          23.0%
Public transport passengers   1.6%           1.8%            2.4%           2.0%
Cyclists                      5.5%           2.5%            0.0%          15.1%
Trucks                       16.7%          18.5%           24.2%           6.6%
Total                       100.0%         100.0%          100.0%          100.0%
Total (U$ present value)     880.0          767.4           587.6          705.2
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity analysis and Switching values of critical items:
Sensitivity tests
Sensitivity tests were carried out for the following alternative assumptions:
a.    Private motorized vehicle drivers on business travel had only 2 1/2 times the average wage
b.    zero value of travel time savings for evaluation
b.    the level of demand would grow at 4 percent per year on average instead of 6 percent
c.     vehicle operating costs would be only 75 percent of those derived from the HDM.
d.    investment costs would be up to 40 percent higher than estimated
Sensitivity test             ERR
Lower value of business time        32.4%
Zero value of time                  24.1%
Lower rate of growth of demand      33.2%
Lower vehicle operating costs       24.1%
Higher investment costs             26.4%



Page 44                                         Annex 4
Switching values
Four parameters were analyzed to determine what value they would need to take for the NPV to be zero or
less - rate of growth of demand, construction costs, the value of travel time savings and vehicle operating
cost savings. Taking the parameters individually, none of the switching values would have a significant
probability.
Even if traffic were not to increase from present levels, the NPV would remain just positive, and for the
NPV to fall to below zero, traffic would have to reduce at about 3 percent per year. Despite the
restructuring of basic industries in Liaoning and the dependence on an iron and steel industry that is likely
to substantially reduce its employment, a sustained reductioni in travel demand of this level is considered
highly unlikely. If the only chiange from basic parameter values were in construction costs, they would need
to increase by an average of more than 260 percent to produce this result, another highly improbable
outcome.
One of the more controversial values used in the evaluation is that of the value of travel time savings.
However. these make up only about 25 percent of the total quantified benefits of the project, and even with
zero values of time, it would have a substantially positive NPV. Some of the sub-components that are
designed specifically to relieve congestion and therefore have time savings as their principal objective,
Would have negative NPVs under this circumstance. Another parameter with a controversial value is
vehicle operating costs. Despite the efforts to derive values that are applicable to urban traffic conditions in
China, great uncertainty surrounds the figures used. However, the values would have to be reduced to
about 15 percent of those used in the basic evaluation for the NPV to fall below zero, yet another highly
improbable outcome.
Single parameter switchin2 values
Parameter                  Change in value needed to result  Estimated probability of
in a negative NPV        occurrence
Rate of growth of demand                             -3% per year               Less than 1%
Lower vehicle operating costs                   13% of basic value            Less than 5%
Lower value travel time 'savings                  Less than zero                Negligible
Increased construction costs                287% more than basic value        Less than 1%
Various combinations of the values of the parameters could also lead to a negative NPV. Some of these,
and their assessed probabilities of occurrence are included in the following table. None of the parameter
combinations has a significant probability, although they are all higher than those for the single parameter
outcomes.



Page 45                                               Annex 4
Multiple Parameter switching values
Parameter value             |                   Parameter probability
Construction    Value of       Vehicle     Construction     Value of       Vehicle         Joint
Cost          time         operating       Cost           time        operating     Probability
cost                                       cost
120%          22%            100%           40%           20%            65%           5.2%
130%          27%            100%           35%           22%            65%           5.0%
140%          33%            100%           30%           30%            65%           5.9%
150%          36%            100%           25%           35%            65%           5.7%
160%          41%            100%           15%           40%            65%           3.9%
170%          45%            100%           10%           45%            65%           2.9%
120%          25%            90%            40%           21%            60%           5.0%
120%          40%            50%            40%           40%            40%           6.4%
140%          40%            75%            30%           40%            50%           6.0%
140%          60%            15%            30%           60%            10%            1.8%
160%           50%           70%            15%           50%            45%           3.4%
160%           57%           56%            15%           55%            40%           3.3%
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."



Page 46                                        Annex 5
Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year I     Year 2  1 Year 3      Year4       Year 5  I Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             6.0      104.3       103.2       78.3       37.4        33.5       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.3        10.2        3.7         2.8        1.5         1.2       0.0
Total Project Costs            6.3       114.5      106.9       81.1       38.9        34.7       0.0
Front-end fee      1 .5       0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                7.8       114.5      106.9       81.1       38.9        34.7       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    3.6        42.0       42.3        31.4       16.3       14.4        0.0
Government                  4.2        72.5       64.6        49.7       22.6      20.3         0.0
Central                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial               4.2       71.6        64.1       49.6       22.6       20.3        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
-Total Project Financing       7.8       114.5      106.9       81.1        38.9      34.7         0.0
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
| Year 1      Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5      Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs           0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Front-end fee     0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
ITotal Financing               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
fFinancing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0         0.0



Page 47                                        Annex 6
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Procurement
Procurement Assessment
LUCRPO will coordinate, and have overall responsibility, for all procurement activities financed by the
project while the municipal Project Offices will be responsible for day-to-day activities within their
respective jurisdictions. As required by domestic regulations, the China International Tendering Company
(ITC) has been recruited as the procurement agent for the project. Specifically,
*   LUCRPO will review all project documents before they are issued, will supervise the bidding,
evaluation, and contract award processes. They will also be the Bank's primary interlocutor on
general procurement issues and on issues relating to program management, and will keep a record
of all important correspondence.
*   The municipal project offices will be responsible for the preparation of the technical sections of the
bidding documents and for the management of contract implementation. They will keep a record of
all correspondence. They will also issue the disbursement requests.
*   ITC will be responsible for managing all aspects of ICB procurement and preparation of the
commercial parts of the documentation for both the ICB and NCB contracts. It will be also the
Baank's primary interlocutor for all matters related to the ICB contracts. Finally, they will maintain
the master filing system for ICB procurement.
LUCRPO has gained substantial experience on Bank-financed procurement as the manager of two previous
Bank projects and its staff have been used to train the staff in less experience agencies. Further, the
Liaoning Finanicial Bureau previously prepared and issued an internal procurement manual and procedure
for Bank-financed projects in the province, based on the Bank's procurement guideline of 1995. The
manual included sections on bidding procedures, evaluation, contract management, and review. The manual
provides a very good foundation for the activities included in current project, but it needs to be updated.
ITC is one of the original and most experienced procurement agencies in China. Staff assigned to the
project by this agency are very familiar with the requirements of Bank-financed procurement.
The Shenyang Project Office has had some experience of Bank-financed projects and has some knowledge
of Bank-financed procurement. However, the project offices in Fushun and Anshan have had no such
experience. In order to strengthen the procurement abilities of the municipal staff, especially in Fushun and
Anshan, a suitable training program has been developed (details in the PIP). In addition, international and
domestic procurement experts will be recruited to the teams in the project offices.
A procurement plan (included in the PIP), and internal procurement review and control procedure (also
included in the PIP) have been found satisfactory. LUCRPO also has a very good record keeping system.
However, a system guidelines need to be prepared so as to ensure consistent record keeping between the
four agencies and to be used when training staff in the municipalities. LUCRPO will provide guidelines for
the maintenance of the project record system, and will help municipal staff to establish such a system
within the municipalities, before the end of the first quarter of 1999.



Page 48                                        Annex 6
Overall, the task team considers the proposed arrangements for managing procurement are satisfactory. In
particular, it found that the procurement plan, procurement procedures, internal organization and control,
and staffing plan are adequate. However, as noted above, so as to fill the gaps identified by the assessment,
the implementing agencies have agreed to implement a training program for municipal staff, update the
provincial procurement manual and develop project record keeping systems at the municipal level. These
activities will be completed before the end of the first quarter of 1999.
Procurement Procedure
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines). Chinese Model Bidding Documents published by
Tsinghua University Press, dated May 1997, or the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used for
all Bank-financed procurement. Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers revised by the
Bank in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines).
The proposed procurement plan is included in the PIP, and provides a schedule for each step of the
procurement process. It shall be updated annually and furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph I of Appendix I to the Guidelines. All Bank-financed
procurement shall be undertaken in accordance with the approved plan.
ICB goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of the Guidelines.
Bidders for all ICB contracts for works shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. Post qualification will be used for ICB goods contracts and
NCB works contracts.
Domestic preferences shall apply in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines which will apply to goods manufactured in China to be carried out by domestic contractors
(other than goods manufactured in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower.)
The invitation to pre-qualify or bid for each contract is estimated to cost US$ 10,000,000 equivalent or
more for goods and works and US$200,000 equivalent or more for consultant services shall be advertised
in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines and
2.5 of the Consultant Guidelines, that is to be advertised in United Nations Development Business (UNDB)
and publication in at least one newspaper of national circulation in China.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement under the project would be carried out as show in Table A for the project as a whole (all three
cities).
ICB procedures will be used to select the contractors for the major road infrastructure sub-components in
each of the three project cities (except some parts of south ring road, Zhonghua Road and Yuanlin road in
Anshan and Hunhenan road in Fushun) as well as some facilities (traffic sign, paint, separation fence, etc.)
for Shenyang.
Road infrastructure works shall be packaged to ICB civil works contracts of between US$10 to 30 million.



Page 49                                       Annex 6
The ICB percentages are 69 percent in Shenyang, 70 percent in Anshan and 61.5 percent in Fushun in
terms of Loan. The overall ICB percentage is between 45 to 51 percent of total project amount. The total
amount of ICB contracts including both civil works and equipment is US$196.6 million.
Civil works contracts for public transport, traffic management and road maintenance are to be procured
through NCB procedures. Civil works contracts for infrastructure and public transport will normally be
tendered as individual contracts. Whereas the contracts for traffic management and road maintenance
works will normally be tendered jointly, for the same section of the roads, so as to facilitate construction
management.
Works is estimated to cost less thani US$ 1 0,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$84.5 million equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
National Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. For
international shopping, three quotations from qualified contractors from two different countries are
required. Requests for quotations should indicate the description and quantity of the goods, as well as the
desired delivery time and place.
It is currently estimated that there will be 51 packages including both civil works and equipment for ICB
and NCB which will be grouped together so that the number of invitations to bid will be 51 over a six-year
period [ 19 for Shenyang (1998 to 2002), 16 for Anshan and 16 for Fushun (1999 to 2003)].
Since it is a GOC requirement that the province must appoint an authorized procurement agency to manage
all ICB procurement, the project office has hired ITC of CNTIC as the procurement agent.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil Works and Equipment
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (a) works is estimated to cost US$2,000,000 equivalent or more; (b)
goods is estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by the above paragraph on prior review, the procedures set
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
Shenyang implementing agencies have conducted the NCB procurement for road maintenance of Shenzhou
Road and Heilongjiang St. (one contract) and Zhulin Rd and South Jiuzhong Rd (one contract) for advance
contracting and Retroactive Financing. Although the Bank has cleared the bid evaluation report on October
12, 1998, it does not commit the Bank to make a loan to finance for the contracts.



Page 50                                       Annex 6
Employment of Consultants
Consultants' services shall be procured and awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of the
Consultant Guidelines applicable to quality-and cost-based (QCBS) selection of consultants (see Table Al)
Prior Review by the Bankfor the Selection of Consultants
Prior review is required for all consultants contracts above US$ 100,000 (for company contracts) and
US$50,000 for contracts to be awarded to individual consultants, as detailed below:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a) and 5 of
Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b) Prior review is required with respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$]100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of US$200,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the
Consultants' Guidelines shall apply.
(c) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Post Review of Consultants Contracts
With respect to each contract not governed by Prior Review, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Consultants' Guidelines shall apply.
Bank Service Standards
The Bank will endeavor to respond within ten working days. The substantial comments will be given in ten
working days for all contracts of NCB, IS, ICB below US$15 million and Consultant selection below
US$200,000; 15 working days for contracts of ICB between US$15 million to US$25 million and
Consultant selection over US$200,000 subject to RPA review and 20 working days for ICB over US$25
million (bid evaluation only) subject to OPRC review.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds by category and the disbursement percentages proposed in
each category. The estimated disbursements by year and cumulative is shown as part of the Project
financing Data in the cover page.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
SOEs will be used for all contracts under US$2 million equivalent for works and under US$250,000 for
goods, US$ 100,000 for consulting firms, and US$50,000 for individual consultants and training.



Page 5S                                        Annex 6
Special account:
A special account in the amount of US$10 million will be established, the estimated average expenditure
for a four-month period. Applications for replenishment, supported by appropriate documentation, will be
submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of the initial deposits, whichever
comes first.



Page 52                                            Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB           Other'          N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                             171.9          84.6            0.0             0.0           256.5
(82.5)         (40.6)          (0.0)          (0.0)         (123.1)
2. Goods                             24.7            0.2            0.0             0.0            24.9
(20.0)          (0.2)          (0.0)          (0.0)          (20.2)
3. Services                           0.0            0.0            5.2             1.3            6.5
(0.0)          (0.0)          (5.2)           (0.0)          (5.2)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.0            0.0            0.0            94.5           94.5
(0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)           (0.0)          (0. 0)
5. Front-end fee                      0.0            0.0             1.5            0.0            1.5
(0.0)          (0.0)          (1.5)           (0.0)          (1.5)
Total                             196.6          84.8            6.7            95.8           383.9
(102.5)        (40.8)          (6.7)           (0.0)         (150.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
government units.



Page 53                                        Annex 6
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                   Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure     QCBS       QBS        SFB       LCS        CQ        Other     N.B.F.   Total Cost'
Category
A. Firms             5.2       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        1.3       6.5
(5.2)    (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)     (5.2)
B. Individuals       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
(0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)
Total    5.2       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        1.3       6.5
(5.2)    (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)      (0.0)     (5.2)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guideleines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 54                                        Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                          Contracts Subject to
Threshold           Procurement           Prior Review
Expenditure Category   (US$ thousands)            Method            (US$ millions)
1. Works                1 0,000 and above           ICB,              2 and above
Below 10,000          NCB
2. Goods                  250 and above         ICB, NCB or         0.25 and above
Below 250        International
Slhoppinig
3. Services           As per 1997 Guidelines                      0.1 for firms 0.05 for
on                                     individuals
ConsuIltant services
4. Miscellaneous              N/A          |
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$230 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procuremenit supervisioni for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 55                                        Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in USSmillion            Financing Percentage
Civil Works                           111.9                          48%
Equipment                             18.4                     100% /100% /75%
Training and Consultant                5.2                           100%
Services
Unallocated                           13.0
Total Project Costs                   148.5
Front-end fee              1.5
Total                                 150.0
Note:
1. A special account in the amount of US$10 million will be established.
2. SOEs will be used for all contracts under US$2 million equivalent for works and uLider US$250,000 for
goods, US$100,000 for consulting firms, and US$50,000 for individual consultalits and trainitig.



Page 56                                         Annex 7
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Project Schedule                                    Planned           !           Actuall
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  157                        124.9
First Bank mission (identification)       08/06/95                     08/06/95
Appraisal mission departure                12/03/98                    12/15/98
Negotiations                              01/19/99                     01/19/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness             06/01/99
Prepared by:
Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun Municipalities
LUCRPO
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grants
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Richard Scurfield, EACCF           Task Team Leader / Transport
Zong Yan, EACCF                    Urban Transport
Tilly Chang, EASTR                 Urban Transport
Peter Midgley, ISGKM               Former Task Manager
Stephen Stares                     Former Task Manager
Wenyan Dong, EACCF                 Team Assistant
Nenuca Robles, EASTR               Team Assistant
|OTHER TASK TEAM MEMBERS
Robin Carruthers, EASTR            Economics
Daniel Gibson, EASES               Social Analysis
Hoi-Chan Nguyen, LEGEA             Legal
Anil Somani, EASES                 Enviroiinmenit
Yang Dawei. EACCF                  Procuremcent
Zhi Liu, TWUTD                     Urban T1ransport
Zou Youlan, EACCF                  Resettlemcnt
PEER REVIEWERS
Paul Guitink. LCFSP
Slobodan Mitric, ECSIN
Sam Zimmerman, Consultant          Urban T'ransport



Page 57                                        Annex 8
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
General Project Implementation Report (all three cities), Sept. 1998
Project Implementation Plans for Shenyang, Sept., 1998
Project Implementation Plans for Fushun, Sept., 1998
Project Implementation Plans for Anshan, Sept., 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
I.    Liaoning Urban Transport Strategy Plan, 1995 Sept. Chinese/English
2.     Shenyang Urban Transport Plan, 1996 May, Chinese/English
3.    Anshan Urban Transport Plan, 1995, Chinese
4.     Fushun Urban Transport Plan, 1996, Chinese
5.    Shenyang Urban Traffic Management Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
6.    Anshan Urban Traffic Management Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
7.    Fushun Urban Traffic Management Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
8.    Shenyang Public Transport Management Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
9.     Anshan Public Transport Management Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
10.    Fushun Public Transport Management Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
11.    Shenyang Road Maintenance Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
12.    Shenyang Road Maintenance Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
13.    Shenyang Road Maintenance Report, 1996 May, Chinese/English
14.    Shenyang Urban Transport Project Feasibility, 1997 Nov., Chinese Study Report
15.   Anshan Urban Transport Project Feasibility, 1998 April, Chinese Study Report
16.   Fushun Urban Transport Project Feasibility, 1998 March, Chinese Study Report
17.    Shenyang Urban Transport Project, 1998 March, Chinese/English, Preliminary Design
18.   Anshan Urban Transport Project, 1998 March, Chinese/English, Preliminary Design
19.   Fushun Urban Transport Project, 1998 March, Chinese/English Preliminary Design
20.    LUTP, 1998 March, Chinese/English Feasibility Study Report (4 volumes)
21.    Liaoning Urban Transport Project EA Summary, 1998 March, Chinese/English
22.    Shenyang EIA, 1998 March, Chinese/English
23.    Anshan EIA, 1998 March, Chinese/English
24.    Fushun EIA, 1998 March, Chinese/English
25.    Shenyang EAP, 1998 March, Chinese/English
26.   Anshan EAP, 1998 March, Chinese/English
27.    Fushun EAP, 1998 March, Chinese/English
28.    Shenyang RAP, 1998 March, Chinese/English
29.    Anshan RAP, 1998 March, Chinese/English
30.    Fushun RAP, 1998 March, Chinese/English
31.    Liaoning Urban Transport Project, 1996 Sept., Chinese/English, Interim Report
32.   Addendum to LUTP, 1996 Dec., Chinese/English, Project Interim Report
33.   Liaoning Urban Transport Project Summary, 1997 July, Chinese/English
*Including electronic files



Page 58                                                              Annex 9
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions         disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                     Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
CN-PE-49665    1999 PRC                          ANNINGVALLEYAG.DEV                     90.00      3000         000       11994      000       000
CN-PE-50036    1999 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                   20000        000         0.00      20000      2.49      000
CN-PE-63123    1999 PRC                          YANGTZEFLOODEMERGY                     4000       4000         000        so80      000       0 00
CN-PE-3539     1998 PRC                          SUSTCOASTRESDEV                       10000        000         000       10000      292       000
CN-PE-3566     1998 PRC                          BASICHEALTH                             000       8500         000        8690      1 15      000
CN-PE-35698    1998 PRC                          HUNANPOWERDEVELOP                     30000        000         000       300.00     300       000
CN-PE-3591     1998 GOC                          STATE FARMS COMMERCI                  15000        000         0.00      11048    -2842       0.00
CN-PE-3606     1998 PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN   ENERGY CONSERVATION                     6300        000         000       6300       224       000
CN-PE-3614     1998 MINISTRYOF FINANCE           GUANGZ. CITYCRT.TRP                   20000        000         0.00     20000      1059       000
CN-PE-3619     1998 CHINA                        2NDINLAND WATERWAYS                   12300        000         0.00      12300     1550       0.00
CN-PE-36414    1998 PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA   GUANGXI URBAN ENV                       72.00      2000         000       8935      -1 53      000
CN-PE-36949    1998 PRC                          NAT.HWY3-HUBEI                        250.00       000         0.00     242.00      867       0.00
CN-PE40185    1998 PEOPLE'SREPUBLICOFCHiN   SHANDONGENVIRONMENT                         9500        000         000       92.00     1765       000
CN-PE45788     1998 PRC                          TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                    23000        000         0 00     23000      32 04      0 00
CN-PE-46563    1998 PRC                          TARIM BASIN II                         90.00      6000         0.00      15240     11 69      000
CN-PE-46952    1998 PRC                          FOREST. DEV. POORAR                   100.00      10000        0.00     20396       717      14.34
CN-PE49700    1998 GOC                           IAIL-2                                30000        000         0.00      280.00     470       0.00
CN-PE-51736    1998 PRC                          E. CHINA/JIANGSUPWR                   25000        000         0.00     250.00     7186       0.00
CN-PE-56491    1998 PRC                          HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                        000       2840         0.00      2101      -2 82      0.00
CN-PE-34081    1997 PRC                          XIAOLANGDIMULTI. II                   430.00       000         0.00     36440      8607       0.00
CN-PE-3590     1997 PRC                          QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                   3000       15000        000       157.27    2239       0.00
CN-PE-3635     1997 PRC                         VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                    1000       2000         0.00       17.37     1.95      000
CN-PE-3637     1997 PRC                          NATLRURWATERIII                         000        70.00       0.00      6542       8.89      000
CN-PE-36405    1997 PRC                          WANJIAZHAIWATERTRA                    40000        0.00        0.00     32866      -301       000
CN-PE-3643     1997 GOC                          XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                  300,00       0 00        0 00     237.28     54,28      0 00
CN-PE-3650     1997 PRC                          TUOKETUOPOWER/INNER                   40000        000         000      398.00    118.12      000
CN-PE-3654     1997 PRC                          HUNAN/GUANGHWY2-NH2                   40000        000         0.00      350.40    80.39      000
CN-PE-36952    1997 PRC                          BASIC ED. IV                            000       8500         0.00      5051    -21.08       000
CN-PE-38988    1997 PRC                          HEILONGJIANGADP                       12000        000         0.00      9702       7.74      0.00
CN-PE-44485    1997 GOC                          SHANGHAI WAIGAOOIAO                   40000        000         0.00     40000      5269       000
CN-PE-34618    1996 PRC                          LABORMARKETDEV                         1000       2000         000       2446      21.16      0.00
CN-PE-3507     1996 P.R.C.                       ERTAN HYDRO II                        400 00       0 00        0.00      31.51    -22.40      0.00
CN-PE-3563     1996 PRC                          ANIMAL FEED                           15000        000         0.00      139.57    104.20    12.92
CN-PE-3569     1996 PRC                          SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                  26000        000         775       110.73   . 23.83    13.17
CN-PE-3589     1996 YUNNAN PROV. GOV.            DISEASE PREVENTION                      000       10000        000        71.22    55.07      000
CN-PE-3594     1996 PRC                          GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                    60 00      90 00        0.00     129.18     24.33      0 00
CN-PE-3599     1996 PRC                          YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                    12500       2500         000       14129     1424       0.00
CN-PE-3602     1996 PRC                          HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                  12500       2500         000       128.27    75.00      0.00
CN-PE-3638     1996 SHANGHAIMUN. GOVT            SEEDSSECTORCOMMER                      8000       2000         000       84.49     28.54      0.00
CN-PE-3646     1996 CHINA                        CHONGQINGINDPOLCT                     17000        000         000       169.38    95.13      0.00
CN-PE-3648     1996 PRC                          SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                  250 00       0 00        000      165.68     73.87      0.00
CN-PE-3649     1996 PRC                          SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                    000       10000        0.00      35.64    -12.39      0.00
CN-PE-3652     1996 PRC                          2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                  21000        000         0.00      148.70    54.69      0.00
CN-PE-36950    1996 PRC                          BASIC ED. POOR III                      000       100.00       0.00      14.43    -23.65      0.00
CN-PE-40513    1996 PRC                          2ND HENAN PROV HWY                    210.00       0.00        0.00      181.05    51 72      0.00
CN-PE-3493     1995 GOC                         INLAND WATERWAYS                       420 00       0 00        0 00     286.07      4.79      0.00
CN-PE-3571     1995 PRC                          RAILWAYS VII                          40000        0.00        000      384.39    19505       0.00
CN-PE-3585     1995                              SHENYANGIND. REFORM                   17500        000         000       10080     4720       0.00
CN-PE-3596     1995                              YANGTZEBASIN WATER                    10000       110.00       0.00      41.11    -12.08      0.00
CN-PE-3598     1995                              LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                  110.00       0.00        0.00      7021      55.69      0.00



Page 59                                                               Annex 9
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                     Purpose                               IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-3800     1995 PRC                          TECHNOLOGYDEVELOPME                   20000         000        000       13294      41.52      0.00
CN-PE-3603     1995 PRC                          ENT HOUSING SOC SE                    27500        7500        2000      204 50    153.52      4.17
CN-PE-36041    1995 MOF                          FISCAL & TAX REF. &                    50 00       25 00       0 00       66 82     41 27      0 00
CN-PE-3612     1995 PRC                          XINJIANG HIGHWAYi                     15000         000        000        5543      4343       0.00
CN-PE-3634     1995 PRC                          MATERNALCHILDHEALT                      000        9000        000        2207       968       0.00
CN-PE-3636     1995 PRC                          BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    000       100 00       0 00        3 95     -2 68      0.00
CN-PE-3639     1995 PRC                          SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                   9500       200.00       0.00      151 15     2964       000
CN-PE-3642     1995 PRC                          ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                   400 00        0 00       0 00      147 91    -47 89      0 00
CN-PE-3647     1995 GOC                          ECONOMICLAWREFORM                       000        1000        000         582       5.46      000
CN-PE-36947    1995 PRC                          SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                  27000         000        000       141 78    126.75     8341
CN-PE-37156    1995 MOH                          IODINE DEF. DISORDER                    700        2000        700         214      11.74     -071
CN-PE-3502     1994 PRC                          RURHEALTHMANPOWER                       000       11000        000        3198      2315       000
CN-PE-3504     1994 PRC                          HEBEIIHENAN NATIONAL                  380.00        000        000        48.65      830       000
CN-PE-3540     1994 PRC                          LOESS PLATEAU                           0 00      150 00       000        31 02    -24 41      0 00
CN-PE-3557     1994 PRC                          FOREST RESOURCE DEV                     000       20000        0.00       47.66     1552     -2964
CN-PE-3562     1994 PRC                          XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE               460 00        000        0 00        083       0 83      0 00
CN-PE-3586     1994 PRC                          SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                  160 00        0 00       0.00       72.20     65 65      0 00
CN-PE-3593     1994 PRC                          SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                      0.00      20500        0.00       2658    -1575        000
CN-PE-3595     1994 GOC                          REDSOILSIIDEVELOP                       0.00      15000        000        4163      1411       000
CN-PE-3809     1994 SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT    SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION          255 00        0 00       0 00      129 77     74 28      0 00
CN-PE-3622     1994 GOC                          SHANGHAI MTP II                       150.00        0 00        0 00       748       7 49      0 00
CN-iE-3626     1994 GOVERNMENT OF PRC            FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                   140 00        000        000        5863      3129       279
CN-PE-3833     1994 PRC                          TELECOMMUNICATIONS                    250 00        0.00       30.00      19.55     49 55      0 00
CN-PE-3641     1994 PRC                          YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER                350 00        0 00       0.00       75.98     5615       0 00
CN-PE-3644     1994 P.R.C                        XIAOLANGDIRESETTLEMENT                  000       11000        000        2636       637       000
CN-PE-3473     1993 GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C   ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                     000       11000        000        2949      26.06      000
CN-PE-3512     1993 PRC                          SHANGHAIPORTREST                      15000         000       2574         388      27.77      220
CN-PE-3518     1993 PRC                          GUANGDONGPROV TRANSPORT               24000         000        000         208      -2.94      0.00
CN-PE-3533     1993 PRC                          TIANJIN IND 11                        150 00        0 00       16.00      4217      4765       882
CN-PE-3559     1993 PRC                          AGRIC SUPPORT SERVI                     000       11500        000        1074      -216       000
CN-PE-3561     1993 PRC                          SICHUAN ADP                             0 00      147 00       0.00        5.66      0 00      0 00
CN-PE-3567     1993 PRC                          EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                    0 00      100 00       0.00       22.81     20 72     2078
CN-PE-3570     1993 PRC                          RAILWAY VI                            420 00        000        0 00       94 61     92.29      0 00
CN-PE-3580     1993 PRC                          SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON PROTECT            25000         000        000         415      -1 87      000
CN-PE-3581     1993 PRC                          HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                 120 00        0 00       0 00       10 78     10.79      0 00
CN-PE-3592     1993 PRC                          REF. INSrL.& PREINVEST(CRISP)           0 00       50 00       0 00       2019      19.61      0.00
CN-PE-3597     1993 PRC                          TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  100.00      10000        000        4756      4317       0.00
CN-PE-3616     1993 PRC                          TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                   300 00        0.00       0 00       6670      47 99      0.00
CN-PE-3623     1993 ROC                          FINANCIALSECTORTA                       000        6000        0.00       21.07     1602       000
CN-PE-3627     1993 PRC                          GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                  32500       165.00       0.00      32787    321 30      5464
CN-PE-3632     1993 BEIJINGMUNICIPALITY          ENVIRONMENTTECHASS                      000        5000        000        1105      11.06     -015
CN-PE-3503     1992 R.O.C.                       ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                  310 00        0.00       0 00        7 79      7.80      0 00
CN-PE-3534     1992 MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH          ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                  220 00        0 00       0 00       20 24     20.25      8 55
CN-PE-3564     1992                              BEIJINGENVIRONMENT                     4500        8000        000        2579      20.42      2.84
CN-PE-3565     1992                              SHANGHAIMETROTRANS                      000        6000        0.00        389       068       0.00
CN-PE-3568     1992                              TIANJINURBDEV&EN                        000       10000        000        18.90     1524      -607
CN-PE-3624     1992                              INFECTIOUS DISEASES                     000       129.60       0.00       34.15     28.47     2843
Total:   1462000     399000       106.49    1025295   2899.63    22029
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       8256.18       12525.26        20781.44
of which has been repaid:        64.81        2473.13        2537.94
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:   18438.66           9692.71       28131.37
Amount sold:          0.00           0.00            0.00
of which repaid:        0.00            0.00           0.00
Total Undisbursed:    10252.95            28.86       10281.81
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 60                                                  Annex 9
CHINA
STATEMENT OF l[FC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
31 -Dec- 1998
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
o                 Pacific Ports                     0.00    0.00     3.64     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.64    0.00
1987/92/94          China Bicycles                   8.50     0.00     3.39     0.00     8.50    0.00     3.39     0.00
1993                Shenzhen PCCP                    3.76     0.00     0.99     0.00     3.76    0.00     0.99     0.0(
1993                Yantai Cement                   14.56     0.00     1.95     7.77    14.56    0.00      1.95    7.77
1994               China Walden JV                   0.00     0.00     6.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     3.53     0.(0
1994                China Walden Mgt                 0.00     0.00     0.01     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.01    (0(0
1994                Dynamic Fund                     0.00     0.00    12.35     0.00    0.00     0.00    10.08    t0(.
1994                Dalian Glass                    20.50     0.00     2.40    40.50    20.50    0.00     2.40    40.50
1994/97             PTP Leshan                      12.20     0.00     1.00    16.00    12.20    0.00     1.00    16.00
1995                Dupont Suzhou                   23.36     0.00     4.15   46.80    23.36     0.00     4.15   46.80
1995                Newbridge Inv.                   0.00     0.00     9.40     0.00    0.00     0.00     6.10    (.00
1995                Suzhou PVC                      22.00     0.00     2.48    22.20    17.49    0.00     2.48    17.65
1996                Beijing Hormel                   5.00     0.00     0.50     5.50     5.00    0.00     0.50     5.50
1996               Jingyang                         40.00     0.00     0.00   100.00    40.00    0.00     0.00   100.00
1996               Tianjin Kumho                    11.17     0.00     0.00    33.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.0(
1996               Nanjing Kumho                    16.00     0.00     3.81    45.50    13.63    0.00     3.81    38.75
1996                Weihai Weidongri                 4.33     0.00     0.00     0.00    4.33     0.00     0.00     0.0(
1997               Ningbo                            0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00
1997                Orient Finance                  13.33     0.00     0.00    16.67    13.33    0.00     0.00    16.67
1997                PTP Hubei                       12.63     0.00     0.00    25.38     8.31    0.00     0.00    16.69
1997               Rabobank PTPC                     2.40     0.00     0.00     2.40    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998               Caltex Ocean                     21.00     0.00     0.00    45.00     8.91    0.00     0.00    19.09
1998                Rabobank SHFC                    2.75     0.00     0.00     2.75    2.25     0.00     0.00     2.25
1998               Chengxin-IBCA                     0.00     0.00     0.36     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998               Zhen Jing                         0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:        233.49     0.00    56.43   409.47   196.13    0.00    46.03  327.67
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998                CHENGDU CHEMICAI.                 7.40     3.2t)    0.00    8.60
1998                EURECA                            0.((     3.00     0.(0    0.00
1998                LESHAN SCANA                      6.10     1.35    (0(0     0.00
1998                ORIENT FIN A INC                  3.33    (0(0      0.00    0.00
1998               JIANGSU COLINE                     6.50     0.((     0.00    0.00
1998                SHANGHAI KRUPP                   30.00     (.((     0.00    78.44
1998                WUHAN PORT                        5.00     (.00     0.00     5.00
1998               ZHEJIANG COLINE                    6.50     (.((     0.00    0.00
1998                WUHAN CIG                         0.00     1.50     0.00    0.00
1998               XIB                               50.00    20.00     0.00    0.00
1998                ZHEN JING                         4.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                CHINEFARGE                       12.80     0.00     0.00    20.00
1997               NISSAN/DONGFENG                   20.20     0.00     0.00    27.00
1997                PTP HOLDINGS                      0(00    1.50      0.00    0.00
1997                SMC                              14.00     0.00     0.00    14.00
1996               TIANJIN                            9.10     0.00     0.00    9.10
Total Pending Commitment:       175.43    30.55     0.00   162.14



Page 61                                                                    Annex 10
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Liaoning Urban Transport Project
East   Lower-                                           1128/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 Asia &    middle-                        ___
China     Pacific   Income        Development diamond
1997
Population. mid-year (mi//ions)                         1,227.2      1.753     2.282                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                         860        970      1.230
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        1,055.4      1.707     2.818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                              11        1 3        12
Labor torce (I)                                             1 1        14         13       GNP           ,.                   Gross
per   ~        --~ primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                                      capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of populaton below national poverty line)         7
Urban population (% of total population)                    32         32         42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                            70         68         69     I
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                    32         38         36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                  16         16                            Access to sate water
Access to sate water (% ofpopulatton)                       90         84         84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                        19         17         19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)      120        118        114         -      China
Mate                                                     121        120        116               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   120        119        113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     196        1996      1997
GOP (USS billions)                             151.6    295 7       816 5      902.0         onomic ratios
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   27.9      37,7        39.6       38 2
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 5.0     12.2       21.0       230                        Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      28.5      35 2        41 7      42 7
Gross national savings/GDP                      28.5      35.3       40 4       41.4
Current account balance/GDP                       02       -2.5        0 9        3 2      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                                      0.2         0 6       06                                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                              8.0       15.8       16 3      Savings
Total debt service/exports                                 96          8 7        8 6
Present value of debt/GDP                                                       14 9
Present value of debtlexports                                                   62 7
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97      1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                     9 3      10.1      9.6         8 8                    -     China
GNP per capita                          8 3       8.6      8.7         7 4                          Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          18.8     16 6       5.6       27 6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1966        19S6      1997       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                                30
Agriculture                                      32 8     27 1        20 4       18 7
Industry                                        454       44.0       49 5       49 2      20
Manufacturing                                  29 5      35 5       37 8       37 3      o
Services                                        21 7      28 9       301        321
Private consumption                             64 0      51 4       46 7       45 7              92   93   94   95    9    97
General government consumption                    75      134         11.6       116                     GDI        -- GDP
Imports of goods and services                     4 5     14 7        189       185
1976-S6  1987-97        1996      1997       Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                       60       44          51        35       'o
Industry                                        11 0      138         121       108       30
Manufacturing                                  128       133        116         99        I
Services                                         120       87          79        8.3      2
Private consumption                               93       88         11 1       62       lo
General government consumption                    94       9 9         95        8.2      o
Gross domestic investment                       108       11 2         82        586             92    93   94   95    56    97
Imports of goods and services                   22 5      12 8         59       13.1              -      Exports    -* Imports
Gross national product                            9 8      9 9         9 8       8 5
Note 1997 data are preliminary estimates
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 62                                                                     Annex 10
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986        1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domestic prlces
(X change)                                                                                30 -
Consumer prices                                             6 5        9 4       7 9      20
Implicit GOP deflator                             4 0      466 559 1                        12 s5
Government finance                                                                        1
(% of GDP, incrudes current grants)                                                       0
Current revenue                                           24 0        11 4      12 0              92    93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                                      5 6        0 6       0 6                     GDP aellatar  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                   -1 8        .1 5      -1 5
TRADE
(USS millions)                                  1976      1986       1996      1997        Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                     30.942    151 066   182.696       2
Food                                                    4.448     10.232    11:054
Fuel                                                    3 683      5.929     6.967      *s90 oo0
Manufactures                                           19.670    129.141   158.767
Total imports (cif)                                     42.904    138.838   142,361       100 0009
Food                                                    2.002      7.866     6.308       50I0
Fuel and energy                                          504       6 877    10.306
Capital goods                                         20.415      59.610    57.930            .
Export price index (1995=100)                               66
Import price index (1995=100)                               69                           :             *Expxrls       Ulrpxrts
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                                  96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996       1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   7.383   29.583    171,700   207,253       . T
Imports of goods and services                  7.125   37.472    154.100   166.755
Resource balance                                 258   -7.889      17 600    40.498       2
Net income                                         0       176    -12.370   -15.900      i:1
Net current transfers                              0       255       1,922     4.660     i i                              = 92  9
Current account balance                          258   -7.458       7,152    29.258
Financing items (net)                                    5.410     28.248      6.599
Changes in net reserves                                  2 048    -35.400   -35. 857     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                  16.417    111 .728   146.448
Conversion rate (DEC. Iocal/US$)                  1 9       3 5        8 3       8 3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996       1997      !
(USS millions)                                                                          i'Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                    23.719    128.817   146.697
IBRD                                                     965      7.616      8.239                           A 8.239
IDA                                                      774      7.579      7,830            G 31.4               8: 7.830
Total debt service                                       2.974      15.756    18.445                                   : 2904
IBRD                                                      66        840       858
IDA                                                        8         73         81                                       E 20.782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                          155        249       228
Official creditors                                     1 165      4.401      4.315
Private creditors                                      3.693      6.454      8.134
Foreign direct investment                              1 875     40.180    44.236
Portfolio equity                                           0      3.466      8.457                    F 75 478
World Bank program
Commitments                                            1.120      1.900      2.425      A - IBRD                       E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                            607      2.097      2.275      B - iDA    0 -Other muwtilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                                       0        364       377       C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                               607       1734       1898
Interest payments                                         '5        549       562
Net transfers                                            532      1 185      1 335
Note. This table was produced from the Development Economics central database                                                 1/28/99



Page 63                                       Annex I I
Additional
Annex No.: 11
Institutional Arrangements
Institutional Arrangements for the preparation and implementation of the project are presented as
follows:
Participating Agency            Role           Component (s) (see the     Responsibilities
(see agency descriptions                             package plan)
below)
Liaoning Urban            Coordination            All project activities  Organization,
Construction and Renewal    Management                                   coordination, and
Project Office (LUCRPO)                                                  management of the
overall project
Liaoning Financial Bureau    Financial management    All project activities  Financial management
(LFB)                                                                    including disbursements
for the project
Liaoning Planning         Planning and investment  All project activities  Development of the
Commission (LPC)          management                                     investment program and
obtaining national
approval for the project
Liaoning Auditing Bureau  Project auditing        All project activities  Financial and
(LAB)                                                                    investment auditing
Liaoning Environment      Review the EIA          All project activities  Review of EIA, and
Protection Bureau (EPB)                                                  obtaining SEPA
approval
Shenyang Transport        Coordinate city         Urban transport sector    Review and implement
Management Committees     transport policy and                           transport plan; identify
regulation                                    transport projects and
coordinate agencies
involved
Shenyang Project Office   Project implementation    all Shenyang project  Organization,
management             activities             coordination,
management; and
implementation of
Shenyang component
Shenyang Land Acquisition    Land acquisition and  all Shenyang project  Resettlement policy and
and Resettlement Office    resettlement           activities             implementation



Page 64                                        Annex I I
Participating Agency             Role         T Component (s) (see the     Responsibilities
(see agency descriptions                              package plan)
below)
Shenyang Environment       Environment assessment  all Shenyang project    Evaluation and
Protection Bureau          and protection          activities             implementation of
protection/mitigation
actions
Shenyang Municipal Design   Design and supervision    all Shenyang project  Design and coordination
and Research Institute                             activities              with supervision teams
Shenyang Transit Co.       Project construction and   all SYPT projects    Project planning, design
management                                     implementation
operation
Shenyang Traffic Brigade   Project construction and   all SYTM projects    Project planning, design
management                                     implementation
operation
Shenyang Municipal Road    Project construction and   all SYRM Projects    Project planning and
maintenance Division       management                                      implementation
Fushun Transport           Coordinating city       Urban transport sector    Review and implement
Management Committees      transport policy and                            transport plan; identify
regulation                                     transport projects and
coordinate agencies
involved
Fushun Project Office      Project implementation    all Fushun project    Organization,
management             activities              coordination,
management;
implementation
Fushun Land Acquisition    Land acquisition and    all Fushun project      Resettlement policy and
and Resettlement Office    resettlement            activities             implementation
Fushun Environment         Environment assessment  all Fushun project      Evaluation and
Protection Bureau          and protection          activities             implementation of
protection/mitigation
actions
Fushun Municipal Design    Design and supervision    all Fushun project    Design and coordination
and Research Institute                             activities              with supervision teams
Fushun Transit Co.         Project construction and   all FSPT projects    Project planning, design
management                                     implementation
operation



Page 65                                        Annex 11
Participating Agency             Role           Component (s) (see the      Responsibilities
(see agency descriptions                              package plan)
below)
Fushun Traffic Brigade     Project construction and   all FSTM Projects    Project planning, design
management                                      implementation
operation
Fushun Municipal Road      Project construction and   all FSRM Projects    Project planning and
maintenance Division       management                                      implementation
Anshan Transport           Coordinating city       Urban transport sector    Review and implement
Management Committees      transport policy and                            transport plan; identify
regulation                                     transport projects and
coordinate agencies
involved
Anshan Project Office      Project implementation    all Anshan project    Organization,
management             activities              coordination,
management;
implementation
Anshan Land Acquisition    Land acquisition and    all Anshan project      Resettlement policy and
and Resettlement Office    resettlement            activities              implementation
Anshan Environment         Environment assessment  all Anshan project      Evaluation and
Protection Bureau          and protection          activities             implementation of
protection/mitigation
actions
Anshan Municipal Design    Design and supervision    all Anshan project    Design and coordination
and Research Institute                             activities              with supervision teams
Anshan Transit Co.         Project construction and   all ASPT projects    Project planning, design
management                                     implementation
operation
Anshan Traffic Brigade     Project construction and   all ASTM Projects    Project planning, design
management                                     implementation
operation
Anshan Municipal Road      Project construction and   all ASRM Projects    Project planning and
maintenance Division       management                                      implementation



Page 66                                        Annex 12
Additional
Annex No.: 12
Summary of Environmental Assessment and Action Plans
(as revised 12/23/98)
1.0    Project Summary
The Liaoning Urban Transport Project consists of three sub-projects in the cities of Shenyang, Fushun and
Anshan. The sub-projects comprise five components: public transport, traffic management, infrastructure,
road maintenance and institutional strengthening.
The project is classified as a Category A project according to the World Bank's Environmental Assessment
Operational Directive 4.01. An Environmental Assessment (EA) Report and an Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) was prepared for each of the three cities: Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun. These documents, as well
as a Summary Report were reviewed by the World Bank and were found to meet the requirements of OD
4.01. The EA was also reviewed and cleared by the Chinese State Environmental Protection Administration
(SEPA). The Summary Report concludes that the proposed project will assist in providing a long-term
solution to traffic congestion, improve the quality of urban life and stimulate economic development. The
report also notes that the project will result in degradation of environmental quality to some extent, in the
immediate vicinity (-300 m) of the project areas, but should result in a positive contribution to pollution
control in the overall urban area.
2.0    Project Components
2.1    Shenyang
Components of the project in Shenyang include: a bus terminal and a bus repair facility; six street and
corridor improvements (widening of sections ranging from I to 3.1 km) as well as the reconstruction of 6.8
km of Lianhe Road. The Jianshe-Nanwu corridor will consist of a 3.8 km elevated viaduct. Additional
shorter sections (< 1.1 km) will be constructed to improve traffic flow.
2.2    Anshan
Major components of the project in Anshan include the construction, reconstruction and widening of
segments of surface roads totaling 18.8 km. Other components include five viaducts (159-621 m) and the
3.2 km Wuyi interchange as well as three underpasses (< 50 m each) and one 216 m bridge.
2.3    Fushun
The major component of the Fushun project is the widening of the Hunhe Road (24.8-km) which runs along
the Hunhe River.
3.0    Existing Environment
3.1    Air Quality
Based on monitoring results, air quality in all three cities is poor. The daily average concentration of



Page 67                                        Annex 12
non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) exceeded the standards for all readings. Nitrogen oxide (NOx) levels
exceeded the daily average standard 70 percent of the time during the heating season and 30 percent of the
time during the non-heating season. Carbon monoxide (CO) readings were exceeded 32 percent of the time
during the heating season. All readings of CO in Anshan during the non-heating season exceeded the daily
average, but the standard was rarely exceeded in Shenyang and Fushun during the non-heating season.
Airborne lead (Pb) concentrations exceeded the standard in the non-heating season in all cities. Twenty
monitoring points were selected in the area of assessment, with six in Shenyang, eight in Anshan and six in
Fushun. The poor air quality in the three cities, is due in part, to motor vehicle emissions. The monitoring
included heating and non-heating seasons and shows a significantly higher level of pollution in the heating
season. Other significant findings are:
all NMHC readings of daily average concentration exceeded the standard by 0.6 to 6.7 times;
72 percent of daily average NOx readings exceeded the standard in the heating season; and the maximum
standard exceedance is 5.9 times higher than the standard; 28 percent of NOx readings of daily average
exceeded the standard in the non-heating season, and the maximum standard exceedance is 3.8 times higher
than the standard; 32 percent of CO readings of daily average exceeded the standard in the heating season
and the maximum standard exceedance is 3.3 times higher than the standard; all CO readings of daily
average exceeded the standard in the non-heating season in Anshan, but few exceeded the standard in
Fushun and Shenyang;
Pb daily average reading at one monitoring point (Lifu Hospital) in Shenyang exceeded the standard in the
heating season; daily average Pb readings at four monitoring points exceeded the standard by a factor of
0.3 to 0.9 in the non-heating season.
3.2    Noise
Existing noise levels recorded in all three cities were generally high; just over half of the monitoring
stations had levels that exceeded daytime standards and almost all exceeded the nighttime standard. There
were 44 monitoring points for noise level, 20 in Shenyang, 16 in Anshan and 8 in Fushun. The monitoring
results showed that 56 percent of the daytime values exceeded the standard by 0.1 to 21.0 dB (A and 96
percent of night time values exceeded the standard by 1. I to 24.0 dB (A (with one exception, in Fushun).
3.3    Vibration
The vibration level in the area of assessment met the standard in all but one case.
3.4    Sunshine
In the three project cities, the sunshine hours in December were 155-164, with a sunshine percentage of 55
to 57 percent. The sunshine level in the three cities is above the national average.
3.5    Surface Water
The surface water bodies potentially affected by the project are the Nansha River in Anshan and Hunhe
River in Fushun. The surface water was polluted to different degrees, mainly due to industrial wastewater
and domestic sewage. The major pollutants are COD, NH3-N and oil.
3.6    Socio-econoniics
Shenyang is the political, economic, cultural, and scientific center and the traffic and communications hub
of Liaoning Province. It is an important industrial base in the country and the largest city in Northeast



Page 68                                        Annex 12
China. Anshan has the largest iron and steel based metallurgical industry in China. Fushun is a heavy
industry city, with coal, petroleum processing and ferrous metal smelting and processing.
The total population in the urban areas of the three cities is 7,520,000, with 4,728,000 in Shenyang,
1,442,000 in Anshan and 1,350,000 in Fushun. The total urban area of the cities is 4,792 km2 (Shenyang -
3,495 km2, Anshan - 622 km2 and Fushun - 675 km2).
4.0   Impact Assessment
The most significant issues in all three cities are noise, air quality, and socioeconomic issues. There are a
number of sensitive receptors including schools, kindergartens and hospitals adjacent to the project in both
Shenyang and Anshan. Residential buildings are adjacent to sections of the project in all three cities.
4.1    Air Quality
Based on the expected growth of the motor vehicle population in all three cities, it is predicted that the total
pollutant emissions of hydrocarbons (HC), CO and NOx will be less with the project because of more
efficient traffic movement. This conclusion is based on predicted increases in vehicular speed resulting
from the infrastructure improvements. All three cities recognize that this improvement is temporary and
acknowledge the need for vehicle emission controls.
Impact on Air Quality along the Proposed Roads
The peak hour and daily average concentrations of the pollutants with and without the project are presented
in Table I. It can be generally concluded that the concentrations with the project are lower than without.
Table 1: Pollutant Concentration along the proposed Roads (With - Without) in mg/m3
City     I          CO            I          NOx                       HC
Peak hour   daily average Peak hour  daily average Peak hour   daily average
Shenyang -2.98-+11.17 -0.61-+4.43  -0.21-+0.72 -0.04-+0.30  -0.44-+1.72 -0.09-+0.05
Anshan  -3.40-+1.50  -2.55-+1.13  -0.20-+0.20 -0.15-+0.15  -0.70-+0.20 -0.38-+0.15
Fushun   -1.24--8.15  -1.11--7.10  -0.09--0.63  -0.08--0.55  -0.08--0.91  -0.41-1.62
Impact on the Overall Urban Air Quality
According to the predicted traffic volume in the three cities, the Motor Vehicle (MV) volume in Shenyang,
Anshan and Fushun will be 354,000, 146,502, and 115,000. The pollutant emission will be inversely
proportional to the travel speed. Thus, with the increase of the travel speed after the implementation of the
project, the total pollutant emission in the city center with the project will be much less than without (Table
2).



Page 69                                         Annex 12
Table 2: The Comparison of Predicted Pollutant Concentration in 2010
Without the Project      _            With the Project
Average                    r          Average  |
speed of                              speed of
City      MVs (km/h)  HC(tVh)  CO(tlh) NOx(t/h) MVs (km/h) |HC(t/h) !CO(tlh) ]NOx(t/h)
Sheny_            21.4!    2.69' 18.78    0.79_L        29.8"   2.2  _15.47    0.76
Anshan             361     2.21    13.11   1.121        38.5   1.731  10.04    0.92
Fushun             187     1.95!  11.8   0.721         28.11   1.48__  9_.__ _0.67
Mitigation
The cities recognize the need to implement controls on vehicle emissions. This is because of existing air
quality conditions, as well as the eventual reduction in vehicle speed because of fleet growth that will cancel
the benefits discussed above.
Since it is not possible to mitigate the deterioration in air quality only along the alignments, a Motor
Vehicle Emission Control component is being incorporated into the project. The objective is to develop
strategies and provide a strong foundation for a program to address the problem of increasing air pollution
from mobile sources. The program, now in development, will consider the following components: the
introduction of unleaded gasoline; establishment of a vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) system;
establishment of a Vehicle Emission Research Center; and expansion of the automated monitoring network
to monitor air pollution. If the program is implemented, the I/M program is expected to reduce mobile
source contribution to the overall air pollution by 30-40 percent over a five-year period. The remaining
components: to train staff; conduct research to support new initiatives; and understand the dynamics of air
quality in the city and the contribution of vehicle emissions to the overall air pollution, are longer term.
4.2    Noise
The noise problem is serious and will continue to deteriorate as the traffic volume increases. The
comparisons of noise levels for typical sensitive points indicated the daytime noise levels would be 3 - 5 dB
(A) higher with the project than without. The nighttime levels were predicted to be I - 3 dB (A) higher with
the project than without it.
To minimize and mitigate noise problems, a number of measures will be adopted. Construction will not be
permitted between 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., and each construction site will be planned to reduce potential
effects of noise (e.g., selective placement of noisy equipment and the controlled routing of heavy vehicles).
During the operation phase, measures to be adopted fall into three categories: planning (e.g., adjustment of
the distance between buildings and the red line to be not less than 20 m, supplemented where necessary by
other measures such as road-side planting etc.); noise mitigation measures (use of sound absorption
barriers 10 - 15 dB (A reduction), double glazed windows 20 - 25 dB (A reduction) in combination with
indoor air conditioning; and management (maintenance of sound absorption barriers, enforcement of horn
use restrictions, testing of vehicle noise, restriction of heavy-duty traffic, and restrictions of vehicular
speed). Compensation may be applied where the cost of other mitigation is prohibitive or not feasible for
technical reasons.
4.3    Water Quality
In Fushun, the construction and operation of the road along of the Huanhe River is not predicted to
adversely affect the water quality of the river.



Page 70                                        Annex 12
4.4    Socio-economic Factors
Total land acquisition in all three cities, is 422,859 m2. The landowners are to be compensated and the
current inhabitants resettled. Some trees and green space will be lost due to the project and the affected
landowners are to be compensated. With proposed planting and rehabilitation of land a net increase of
576,657 m2 of forested land will ultimately be established.
The proposed project will require the resettlement of households and enterprises in each of the cities. In
Shenyang, 3107 households and 183 enterprises and institutions are expected to be affected. Numbers in
Anshan are 1751 and 478, respectively and are much reduced in Fushun (6 and 7, respectively). Separate
Resettlement Plans have been prepared.
5.0    Environmental Action Plans
The Environmental Action Plans for the three cities provide an adequate documentation of the mitigation
measures and environmental protection procedures. The preparation of these reports has resulted in an
increased capacity among the environmental institutions for conducting these assessments. The use of
Geographic Information Systems has been particularly useful in presenting this complex collection of
subprojects for understanding and evaluation.
6.0    Public Participation
6.1    Approach, Methodology and Content
On-site interviews, informal discussions and surveys were conducted to collect public opinion based on the
existing situation, socio-economic status, and the specific project in each city. The surveys and
investigations were carried out during two periods. The initial round of public participation concentrated on
introducing the project components and obtaining opinions on potential effects. The second round consisted
of reviewing proposed mitigation with the public to document concerns related to the proposed measures.
6.2   Investigation Results of Public Participation
The initial round of public participation in Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun was held on Dec. 12-22, Dec.
2-5 and Nov. 10-28, 1996. Those interviewed were workers, farmers, students, businessmen and officers of
the government agencies, with an age structure ranging from children below 18 years old, adults and
seniors. The public input concentrated on the potential problems caused by the proposed project, such as
noise disturbance, transportation and communication inconvenience, land acquisition and resettlement. The
results showed that 84 percent, 96 percent and 90 percent were in favor of the proposed projects and 7
percent, 4 percent and 8 percent were opposed to the project in Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun.
Based on the results of the initial round of public participation, additional mitigation measures were
considered, such as, sound absorption barriers, modifications to the design, and an increase in the number
of pedestrian signals. Subsequently, the approval rate of the second round was 90 percent, 98 percent, and
98 percent in Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun.
7.0   Identification and Analysis of Alternatives
To mitigate some of the environmental problems and pollution caused by the project, a number of



Page 71                                           Annex 12
alternatives within each city were evaluated. This resulted in changes in the design to avoid, for example,
encroachment on park areas in Shenyang. The proposed alternatives in each city were analyzed for
potential effects related to air quality, noise, water quality and land use changes. Although not many
alternatives are presented, because of the nature of the projects, the reports demonstrate a thorough analysis
of the impacts of the alternatives considered.
8.0    Institutional Strengthening and Training
The project includes environmental monitoring and training components to evaluate the effectiveness of
mitigation measures, to respond to unanticipated environmental impacts during construction, and to provide
supporting information for formulating regulations and improving traffic management and environmental
controls.



Page 72                                       Annex 13
Additional
Annex No.: 13
Summary of Resettlement Action Plan
Background
1.    This Annex presents the Land Acquisition and Resettlement aspects associated with the Liaoning
Urban Transport Project. It is based on the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs). The project components
consist of infrastructure; traffic management; public transport; and road maintenance in the three cities of
Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun. The total land expropriated for the construction and relocation would be
3,259 mu and the total population affected by land acquisition and relocation amounts to 32,597.
Policy Framework
2.    In addition to the national laws and regulations mentioned in the main text, the following local
regulations govern land acquisition and resettlement in the three cities of Liaoning Provinces:
*   Details on Management and Implementation of Urban House Demolishing in Liaoning
Province;
*  Provisional Regulation on Implementation of Land Administration Law of P.R.C. in Liaoning
Province;
*  Administrative Provisions of Urban House Demolishing in Shenyang City;
*   Resolution on User-Pay State-Owned Land by People's Government of Shenyang City;
*   Provisional Regulation on Urban House Demolishing in Anshan City;
  Provisional Regulation on Implementation of Land Administration Law of P.R.C. in Anshan
City;
-   Provisional Regulation on Land Administration in Fushun City;
*   Provisional Regulation on Management of House Demolishing for Urban Construction in
Fushun City (Trial);
*   Regulation on Compensation of Young Plants and Assets on Ground Affected on Land
Expropriated or Used in Fushun City.
Project Impacts
3.    The components containing land acquisition and resettlement in Shenyang are construction and
upgrading of the Beiyi Road, Lianhe Road, Nanwu Road and Pangjiang Street. The total land needed for
construction of the four roads is 1,081 mu, all state-owned land. About 21,977 people will be affected by
the project. In Anshan, 796 mu of land are needed for construction of four roads of Jianguo Road, Hebei
Road, Nanhuan Road and Huangang Lu Yongchang Street. In addition to the 610 mu of State-owned land,
186 mu are cultivated land in the rural areas. The total population affected by the project amounts to
8,846. In Fushun, the construction of Hunhenan Road and widening of Fuping Road need 1,382 mu of
land, out of which 299 mu are cultivated land. The project affected people (PAP) are 1,774. The major
project impacts are summarized in the following table:



Page 73                                        Annex 13
Shenyang          Anshan           Fushun              Total
Residential Households       3,107              1,909            74                  5,090
Enterprises                  90                 78               7                   175
Institutes                   18                 22               0                   40
Shops                        253                378              6                   637
Total People Affected        21,977             8,846            1,774               32,597
Land Acquisition (mu)        1,081              796              1,382               3,259
- State-owned land           - 1,081            - 610            - 1,083             - 2,774
- Collective-owned land                         - 186            - 299               - 485
-- Dry Land                                     -- 63            -- 86               --149
-- Irrigated Land                                                --77                -- 77
--Vegetable Land               _                  49             --37                --86
-- Household Plot                               -- 74                                -- 74
--Water Surface                                                  --80                --80
--Enterprise Land                                                --19                  19
House Demolished (sq.m.)     169,685            136,405          7,222               313,312
Lines/Pipes Dismantled (m.)    46,922               51,099
Rehabilitation
4.     The relocation principle for all the PAP is: (i) to relocate free in houses with comparable value,
equal area and equivalent condition near the original houses; (ii) to relocate to improved houses. No
payment is required by exchanging the equal area between the old and new houses. The relocatee and/or
his working unit shall pay for the increased area of the new houses in construction cost if the increased area
is within the residential area quota; or in market cost if the increased area is larger than the residential area
quota; (iii) to receive compensation in replacement cost and look for houses on his own. The selection of
the above three models in the three cities is shown in the table below:
City                     (Principle) Model I       (Principle) Model 11    (Principle) Model Ill
Shenyang                 0                         97                     3
Anshan                   0                         95                     5
Fushun                   0                          100                   0
5.      Most of the residents selected Model 1I for relocation. In other words, they would like to improve
their housing conditions in quality and quantity by paying an affordable amount of money. The living
conditions in the building apartments are much better than those in the slums. The floor space per person
increases from 6.7 sq.m. to 18.3 sq.m. in Shenyang; from 11.3 sq.m. to 19.7 sq.m. in Anshan; and from
10.3 sq.m. to 16.0 sq.m. in Fushun.



Page 74                                          Annex 13
6.     All affected shops with business loss during the move will be compensated. The principle of
relocation is that: (i) restaurants and department stores move into residential areas and/or commercial
centers; (ii) shops for building materials, vehicle spare parts and industrial products move into markets.
The private shop owners who do not have business license may take this opportunity and apply for the
license within 30 days.
7.     All affected enterprises will be compensated in replacement cost and with production losses during
the move. Some enterprises are partly affected. So replaced structures will be built within the unaffected
part of the enterprises or close to the original sites. Those who have to leave the original sites (29 percent
of the enterprises in Shenyang, 18 percent in Anshan; and no one in Fushun) will move into the industrial
zone according to the General Urban Plan.
8.     All affected institutes include schools, government agencies, public utility units, etc. The replaced
structures will be built close to the original sites aiming at rehabilitation of the original size and function.
The affected structures will be demolished after the completion of the new structures.
9.     The affected farmers have limited cultivated land. Due to land acquisition for the roads, the land
holding capacity will be decreased from 0.38 mu to 0.37 mu/person in Anshan and from 0.29 mu to
0.1 8mu/person in Fushun. For the objective of income restoration, most of them will turn to do
non-farming activities. At the same time, the village will develop the collective economy by using the
compensation fees. Details are tabled below:
unit: number of people
Anshan                                Fushun
Before L.A.        After L.A.         Before L.A.       After L.A.
Farming            43                 18                 117                0
Industry / enterprise 38              62                 86                94
Tertiary Industry                                        89                 109
- Transport        11                 12                 34
- Business         11                 14                 44
- Service          12                 9                  11
self- hunting                                           113                 102
Total              105                105                305                305
Budget
10.    The budget for the project is presented in the following table. Physical contingencies as well as
administrative cost have been included in the budget.



Page 75                                      Annex 13
unit: Y million
Shenyang              Anshan               Fushun
Compensation for
- residential population       136.35                 88.95               3.84
-shops                         19.83                  43.75               3.70
- enterprises                  57.68                  27.16               20.05
- institutes                   8.77                   17.70
- infrastructure               22.77                  38.15               16.26
Land acquisition                                      8.87                24.29
Sub-total                      245.40                 224.57              68.14
Survey & design fee            4.91                   4.49                1.36
Supervision & monitoring       1.47                   1.35                0.41
Administrative cost            7.36                   6.74                2.04
Contingencies                  24.54                  22.46               6.81
Total                          283.68                 259.60              78.76
11.   The annual budget plan for implementation is shown below:
unit: Y million
Shenyang         Anshan            Fushun           Sub-total
1998               96.74             5.00              13.45            115.19
1999               96.08             18.60             25.58            140.26
2000               81.16             78.40             8.97             168.53
2001               9.70              77.00             15.54            102.24
2002                                 41.60             15.23            56.83
2003                                 39.00                              39.00
Total              283.68            259.60            78.76            622.05
Institutions
12.   Leading Groups at the city level have been established with the responsibility of coordinating
resettlement implementation. Actual implementation of resettlement is the responsibility of the
Resettlement Office of Shenyang Municipal Engineering Construction and Administration Bureau (SRO in
Shenyang), Resettlement Office of Anshan Urban Construction Bureau (ARO in Anshan) and Fushun Land
Acquisition Service Station (FLASS in Fushun). All offices have been equipped with necessary staff and
terms of reference. The responsibility of the project management offices in each city is to supervise the
implementation. The National Research Center for Resettlement (NRCR) will monitor and evaluate the



Page 76                                       Annex 13
implementation independently.
Scheduling
13.   The resettlement work in the three cities will start before commencement of the civil works. For
details, please see the following table:
Project Name          Schedule of Civil Works             Schedule of Relocation
Start          Completion          Start          Completion
1. Shenyang
1.1 Lianhe Road    April 1999      Nov. 1999         Oct. 1998         Dec. 1999
1.2 Beiyi Road   March 2000        Nov. 2000         March 1999        Dec. 2000
1.3 Nanwu Road   March 2001        Nov. 2001         March 2000        Dec. 2001
11.4 Pangiiang Street April 1999    Nov. 1999         Oct. 1998         Dec. 1999
2. Anshan
2.1 Jianguo Road   N: March 2002   N: Nov. 2002      N: Sep. 2001      N: Oct. 2002
S: Jan. 2000     S: Nov. 2000      S: July 1999      S: Oct. 2000
2.2 Nanhuan Road  Jan. 1999        Oct. 1999         Aug. 1998         Aug. 1999
2.3 Hebei Road    March 2003       Oct. 2003         Oct. 2002         Aug. 2003
2.4 Huangang Lu   May 2001         Nov. 2001         Jan. 2001         Oct. 2001
Yongchang Road
3. Fushun 
3.1 Hunhenan Road April 1999       Nov. 2003         Oct. 1997         March 2002
3.2 Fuping Road   Aprill 2000      Nov. 2000         Oct. 1997         March 2000
Grievance and Participation
14.   PAPs with grievances on resettlement and rehabilitation shall submit their complaint to the
Neighborhood Committees in urban area or the Villager Committees in the rural area; and/or the
resettlement implementation agencies, i.e. SRO in Shenyang, ARO in Anshan and FLASS in Fushun. If
the results are not satisfactory to the PAPs, the complaint can be submitted to the project management
offices in stages and within the time limits as specified in the RAP. If the issue cannot be solved by the
project authorities, the grievance will be brought to the People's Court in accordance with the Civil
Procedure Act.
15.   PAPs have been consulted on the impact of the project and resettlement measures since the
beginning of RAP preparation through surveys, interviews, questionnaires, public meetings, etc. The PAPs
are informed about the project and already know the location of their new houseplots. Consultation will
continue during the implementation.
Monitoring and reporting
16.   The project management offices are responsible for internal monitoring of resettlement. The
implementation agencies at all levels will coordinate their monitoring activities.



Page 77                                         Annex 13
17.    The implementation of the RAP will be monitored by the National Research Center for
Resettlement (NRCR) who will evaluate the progress and the compliance of the implementing organizations
with the principles of the RAP; and conduct surveys to monitor the standard of living of the PAPs to
ascertain that remedial action will be taken if the living standards fall below preproject levels. NRCR will
visit the fields in November each year and report to the Bank and the project authorities on January 3 1 of
the following year.



Page 78                                        Annex 14
Additional
Annex No.: 14
Assessment of Project Financial Management Systems
In accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting
System, the project task team has conducted assessment of the project financial management as follows:
Organization of project financial management
i. Structure of financial management
The project covers three cities (Shenyang, Anshan, and Fushun) of the Liaoning province and has five
subcomponents. The Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO), equivalent
to the Provincial Project Management Office or (PPMO), located in Shenyang, assumes the overall
responsibility of implementing and monitoring the project. The City Project Offices (CPO) are
responsible for direct project implementation and fund management at the respective city level.
ii. Loan disbursement arrangemetit
Special account will be maintained at Liaoning Provincial Finance Bureau (PFB). Disbursement of
funds will flow from the Bank to PFB, CPO and contractors/suppliers through loan and on-lend
arrangements. CPOs are in charge of verifying the accuracy and validity of expenses submitted and
progress reported. The application of disbursement, prepared by CPOs after thorough verification
against supporting documents, will be further reviewed and approved by the Municipal Finance Bureau
(MFB). LUCRPO consolidates applications at the project level and submits to PFB for further
verification, approval and processing. Though MFB will not be involved in the flow of loan funds, it is
responsible for providing and monitoring counterpart funding.
It is noted that PFB has accumulated extensive experience with the Bank's and MOF's requirements
and procedures in preparation and processing of withdrawal application and financial management of
Bank-financed projects, the project management offices at all levels should work closely with PFB and
MOF in setting up policies and procedures for the project to ensure efficient and accurate fund
management and timely disbursement. To date, PFB has managed 25 Bank-financed projects.
Staffing and training
Adequate number of qualified financialaccounting staff will be recruited before commencement of the
project. The chief accountant at respective management offices will have adequate experience and
credentials in financial and accounting management. In addition, they will maintain books of accounts,
exercise adequate internal controls, safeguard the project's assets, monitor progress of the project and
produce financial and monitoring reports required by the Bank and MOF on a timely basis.
Well designed and focused training will be provided (by PFB) for the project management offices at all
levels to ensure quality of personnel is commensurate with job responsibilities. In particular, Fushun
and Anshan, as they are new to the Bank-financed project and accordingly will require greater
assistance. In addition, well defined roles, job description and operation procedures should be made
easily accessible to all staff involved, to guide in the accounting practices and financial preparation and



Page 79                                        Annex 14
reporting.
Financial and accounting system
Temporary Regulations on Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World
Bank (the Regulations), issued by MOF in January 1997 will be used as basis for bookkeeping and
preparation of financial statements. The Regulations were first issued by MOF in 1993 and revised in
1997 and presumably incorporated requirements stipulated by the Bank. Accrual accounting will be
adopted for the project.
We strongly recommend that a comprehensive financial/accounting manual be prepared by the project
and made readily available before commencement to all staff involved to provide instant reference and
guidance and ascertain sound accounting practice and uniformed treatment. A chart of account tailored
to the specifics of the project should also be designed to guide in bookkeeping and preparation of
financial statement.
Internal and other controls
A well designed internal control system (both administrative and accounting) should be in place before
effectiveness of the project. Detailed guidelines on policies and procedures of the financial/accounting
management are to be provided to ensure accurate accounting of project activities in a timely manner
and should include the following feature:
C a system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, record procedures and project reporting
adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs;
* security of assets, schedules and technical performance;
* delegation and segregation of duties; and
*   timely and accurate financial reporting requirements.
Reporting requirements
The following reports are required to be submitted to the Bank within 30 days after the end of each
reporting period:
Financial statements (bi-annual basis)
Statement of sources and uses of fund
Statement of expenditures by project activity
Statement of expenditures by disbursement category
Special account statement
Project monitoring report (bi-annual basis)
Statement of project progress
Procurement management (bi-annual basis)
Contract expenditure report: goods, works, and consultants
Procurement management report: ICB and NCB



Page 80                                        Annex 14
The format of the above mentioned reports have been discussed and agreed with the project
management and attached to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Auditing requirements
The Bank requires the project to have its financial statements audited in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank. In line with other Bank-financed projects in China, the project is expected to
be audited by State Audit Administration or its branches. Audited annual financial statements are due
to the Bank within six months after the end of each reporting year.
In addition, the Bank task team will audit project books on a test basis as and when deemed necessary.
Budgeting
Procedures as to budgeting have been set up whereby each of the CPOs prepare annual budget and
submit to MFB and LUCRPO for review and approval. LUCRPO then consolidates budgeting
information collected from each CPO3 into a well integrated budget for the project.
Action plan and follow-up
3 Revision of a comprehensive financial/accounting manual to be ready before effectiveness;
3 Well designed internal control system for all levels of project management to be in place before
effectiveness;
* Focused training program to be finalized before negotiation for personnel of all levels, in particular
financiaVaccounting staff of Fushun and Anshan management office; and
3 Agreement by CPOs regarding reports to be submitted to the Bank.



Page 81                                         Annex 15
Additional
Annex No.: 15
Development Background by City
Shenyang
Situated in the heart of Liaoning Province, the capital city of Shenyang is the political, economic, cultural
center of the northeast. It has a population of 6.5 million, of which 3.3 million and 0.5 million floating, live
in the urban area. The city's urban population is expected to grow at an annual rate of 1.5 percent over the
next five years and 0.5 percent over the following ten years.
The city's urban form likens to a hub and spoke pattern, heavily influenced by the existing road network.
The current Master Plan was approved in 1994 and aims to promote the restructuring of existing industries
while diversifying the city's economic base in the high technology and service sectors. The plan envisions
development of a combination radial/circumferential road system to support development goals. The road
system hierarchy includes expressways, secondary and tertiary roads.
Travel Behavior. In 1990, person-trips totaled 8 million, against a population of 3.1 million. This
represents an increase in trip-making of 22 percent over the 1985 rate of 6 million person trips for a
population of 2.8 million. Motor vehicle records reveal a total of 315,611 registered motor vehicles in
1996. Vehicle trips within the central area totaled 442,000, of which freight travel accounted for 32
percent, passenger buses accounted for 42 percent and other motorized traffic accounted for 25 percent.
Presently, mode share is estimated at 85 percent of trips by non-motorized modes (2/3 bicycle, 1/3 walk),
10 percent by bus and trolley bus and 5 percent automobile (mostly taxis). In the 20-year period from
1990-2010, the NMT share is expected to decline by 20 percent points from 89 percent to 69 percent. The
share carried by public transport is expected to increase 13 percent points from 8 percent to 21 percent and
the share by autos is expected to increase from 3 percent to 10 percent.
Major issues and strategic choices in developing Shenyang's urban transport system include:
Road Network. Inadequacies in the road network include the division of the city by railways, the lack of a
continuous east-west roadway and underdevelopment of the primary and secondary road networks. Near
term choices include determining the optimal scale and timing of improvements to the urban road functional
hierarchy within a context of limited budgets. In the longer term, these improvements should aim toward
development of a more efficient road network structure and land development pattern.
Public Transport. Shenyang Public Transport Group Company (SPTGC) operates 115 bus lines, with a
total line length of 2315 km.. The company utilizes a vehicle fleet of 3283, of which 594 are privately
owned. Traditional public transit has steadily lost mode share to bicycle, minibus and auto/taxi travel in
recent years due to slow operating speeds, and a poor route and transfer network. In the city center public
transport speeds average 12 km/hr. and 5-8 km/hr. in the peak period.
The SPTGC is in the midst of a reform program initiated in 1995, at which time, city bus, trolley,
long-distance, minibus, and taxi operations were consolidated into a single company. The new organization
has 22 sub-units including service companies, operating companies, factories and multi-operation
companies. The objective of the re-organization was to rationalize route layouts, organize competition and
reduce operating inefficiencies. Since 1995, the SPTGC has initiated asset re-allocation and divestiture
(land sales), a 20 percent staff reduction, and the so-called Lianying or "joint operation" arrangement in



Page 82                                         Annex 15
which routes are contracted to individual operators (former employees). The joint operations included:
*   individual operators paying SPTG to operate SPTG vehicles on routes;
*   SPTG contracting with existing enterprises to operate their own fleet and provide service on routes;
and,
*   SPTG contracting with independent owner-operators to operate routes.
Joint operations now account for 50 percent of total SPTG operations.
In 1997, SPTGC's capital and operating losses totaled 90 million RMB, of which 30 million RMB was
financed by the municipal capital budget for vehicles, 40 million was provided for operations and 20
million was cross-subsidized by the SPTGC tertiary industries (bus/minibus manufacturing, advertising,
maintenance and repair shops, gas stations, restaurants). Operating subsidies are fixed so that service
improvements and expansions must be subsidy-neutral. SPTGC's proposed fare increases were recently
approved by the central government, and include plans to move to a flat fare structure. Gradual adoption
of IC farecard technology presents opportunities to maintain the more market-based fare structure.
Strategic issues which remain for public transport include how best to increase operating efficiencies for
traditional operating companies, what shape the future organizational structure of the sector should take
(mode and ownership), and development of the regulatory capacity to manage the services of existing
suppliers and new entrants.
RoadMaintenance. Visual inspection of the road system reveals good-to-fair conditions on the primary
road system, fair-to-poor conditions on the secondary and tertiary system, and poor-to-fair conditions on
other facilities, such as sidewalks and medians, drain inlets, pavement markings, landscaping etc. City
officials appreciate the unsustainability of present arrangements for road maintenance.
There is an existing Road Maintenance Department (1300 staff) within the municipal Construction Bureau.
However, it cannot be said that this unit performs conventional maintenance work. Rather than performing
routine and periodic maintenance on road pavements and other facilities, these are often left to deteriorate
until they approach a state of structural failure. Only a subset of these facilities is then rehabilitated,
causing a growing backlog of maintenance needs. The major issues for the future are the development of
modern maintenance planning and budgeting systems within an appropriate institutional framework.
Traffic Management. There is only limited experience in Shenyang with channelization, multi-phase
signal timing, and other measures to ensure the safe and orderly operations at and between junctions.
Moreover, the wider traffic management responsibilities remain limited and uncoordinated. Enforcement
is improving but remains spotty. However, the city has begun to take steps to institute comprehensive
traffic control. The Shenyang Traffic and Police Brigade manages day-to-day operations and leads the
city's efforts to standardize traffic management. Within the city, traffic control offices have been
established in enterprise units, the residential area commissions of the city, the counties and towns. The
major issue for the future is the development of appropriate institutional capacity to analyze, design and
implement traffic management measures in a coordinated fashion.
Institutional Capacity. Serious institutional gaps exist for important transport system management
activities. The city lacks policy-making capacity and decision-makers are poorly informed because of the
underdeveloped local technical capacity. As the motor vehicle fleet grows, the city must provide improved
regulation and management of competition (between and within modes), safety and environmental impacts
of motor vehicle travel. Better linkages between urban development and transport system development are



Page 83                                        Annex 15
also needed. During preparation of the project, each city has established a Transport Management
Committee to better address these issues of sector coordination and management.
Fushun
Fushun is located 55 kilometers west of Shenyang in the eastern mountainous area of Liaoning Province
with a total area of 10,816 km. The municipal population in 1995 was 2.2 million, of which, urban
population totaled 1.4 million which is expected to grow to 1.5 million (with 30,000 floating population) in
year 2000. Fushun's urban area is bisected in the east-west direction by the Hunhe River and it's
tributaries and development is constrained by two enormous open mined coal pits to the south. The urban
area is 250 square kilometers. Fushun's economy has been heavily dependent on coal-mining. Now in
decline, the economic base is being replaced by other industries, notably petrochemicals, and metallurgical
enterprises. Fushun is served by two highways (Shenfu Expressway and Shenfu Highway) connecting it to
Shenyang, and Shenji and Sufu Railways.
The most recent approved Master Plan dates to 1994, and also promotes the restructuring of existing
industries while seeking to diversify the city's economic base into light industry, agricultural processing and
municipal services. A New Municipal Government Development Zone will be supported by the relocation
of populations housed on subsiding land in the south of the city to the newly developed area. The proposed
Expressway/principal system includes the North and South Ring Roads and the east-west through route,
Hunhenan Lu Corridor. A major north-south route is also envisioned in the Yongan Bridge corridor.
Travel Behavior. Motor vehicle records reveal a total of 65,027 registered motor vehicles in the
municipality in 1995, of which 45,365 were registered in the urban area. Trends over the past ten years
show a gradual decline in the vehicle growth rate, to around 7 percent per annum in 1995. In 1995, mode
shares were estimated at 35 percent of trips by walking, 3 1 percent by bicycle, 17 percent by bus and
trolleybus, 16 percent by tram and commuting bus, and 1.5 percent by autos/other. The share carried by
public transport is expected to increase to 22.9 percent by year 2000, and to 23.7 percent by year 2010.
Major issues and strategic choices in developing Fushun's urban transport system include:
Road Network. Fushun's major road deficiency is the lack of a major, high capacity, east-west corridor
which connects the various urban development areas. The second constraint is the system of river
crossings (currently eight) which are increasingly congested. The third problem arises from the layout of
the road network in the CBD, which is a grid network superimposed by a triangular network, resulting in
several irregular intersections.
Strategic choices facing Fushun in the area of physical infrastructure planning are limited due to the
geological constraints of the urban area. Still, Fushun's aggressive development plans for the western
portion of the city call for careful infrastructure planning, both with local traffic and with the intercity road
network, which is being developed concurrently.
Public Transport. Fushun Bus Corporation operates 29 bus and 25 minibus routes providing 77.5 percent
coverage by area and carrying 292.1 million bus and 346.4 million minibus passenger-trips per year.
Additional public transport service is provided by private mini bus operators (22 routes, 49.3 million
person-trips) and electric tram service (two routes, 45.9 million person-trips). Beginning in 1995, Fushun
municipal government began a reform program to restructure the public transport sector. The objectives
were to increase operating efficiency and reduce public operating subsidies. The program includes recent



Page 84                                         Annex 15
experimentation with route concessions beginning in May 1998.
Three stage bus routes have been franchised to a Hong Kong operator which charges one Yuan per trip in
return for providing 60 percent of the capital contribution for 100 vehicles on a 20-year lease-basis.
Service levels are similar to other local routes and other vehicles are permitted to operate on these routes.
Future challenge for the city include the establishment of more appropriate institutional and regulatory
structures which will promote development of more and better quality services.
Road Maintenance. Fushun does not have a functional routine and periodic maintenance system. Local
agencies report a "damage" rate of 12.2 percent of the city's principal and secondary network pavement and
poor conditions for other road infrastructure. Under the project, it is proposed to pilot a maintenance
management system in which a reformed road maintenance management unit would contract out most
routine/periodic maintenance activities and an independent state-owned contracting organization
responsible for its own financial sustainability would participate through a competitive bidding process.
Traffic Management. Limited roadspace combined with growing demand from mixed traffic has resulted
in deteriorating road conditions. Application of traffic management measures is limited in Fushun. Traffic
barriers are only used on 1.5 percent of the total road length, separation medians are used on only 2.2
percent of the total road length, and signs are used at the rate of 3.4 per km of roadway. Motor vehicle and
non-motor vehicle separation exists only on two roads.
In order to address the congested operations on the city's roadway, modal separation and structured
junction management schemes are proposed. These include designation of one-way, MV and NMV only-
streets, channelization, turn restrictions, network simplification, signalization improvements and
enforcement. Improved coordination of traffic management should also result from establishment of a
coordinating committee for traffic management.
Institutional Capacity. Responsibility for NMT and traffic planning is widely fragmented, and
institutional reform must be supported in the road maintenance and public transport sectors. The city has
been more proactive, however, about establishing a coordinating capacity for the sector. The proposed
Fushun Comprehensive Urban Transport Management Office will coordinate policy and regulation of
traffic management and the other sub-sectors.
Anshan
Situated between Shenyang and Dalian in the south of Liaoning Province, Anshan remains a heavily
industrial city. Anshan has a total area of 9251 km' and population of 3.3 million in 1995. Within the
urban area the population was approximately 1.4 million and is expected to grow to 1.55 million (with
100,000 floating population) in year 2000 and 1.9 million in 2010. The city's economy is dominated by the
Anshan iron and steel company, Angang, which is the largest complex in the nation. The city is
well-served by railways connecting it to Harbin, Dalian, Shenyang and Dalian. Expressways provide
access to Shenyang and Dalian.
The most recently approved Master Plan dates to December, 1995. Like other cities in Liaoning Province,
Anshan's economic development strategy focuses on restructuring the traditional industries and attracting
new private sector investment in the high technology sector, and related services, as well as expanding its
tourist industries. The urban road plan is based on a functional hierarchy which includes principle arterial,
major arterials and secondary arterials. The principal arterial system includes a circumferential ring road



Page 85                                        Annex 15
and two corridors (one east-west, one north-south) for priority development.
Travel Behavior. Motor vehicle records reveal a total of 144,276 registered motor vehicles in the
municipality in 1997, of which 70,278 were registered in the urban area. In 1994, mode share was
estimated at 22 percent of trips by walking, 57 percent by bicycle, 18 percent by ous and trolleybus, and
2.5 percent by autos. In the 16-year period from 1994-2010, the NMT share is expected to decline by 18
percentage points from 79 percent to 61 percent. The share carried by public transport is expected to
increase by 5.25 points from 18.25 percent to 23.5 percent and the share by autos is expected to increase
by almost 13 points to 15 percent.
Major issues and strategic choices in developing Anshan's urban transport system include:
Road Network. Strategic choices for the city include how best to preserve the north-south linear grid
pattern of the road network and how to develop its urban road capacity and functional hierarchy while
controlling the scale and form of major infrastructure investments. While development of high capacity
north-south and east-west corridors is needed, the challenge is to integrate these improvements with existing
land use and NMT patterns, and public transit operations. The transport demands at the entrance to the
Angang facility are especially difficult, as high NMT (15,000 - 19,000 peak hour traffic in each direction
on Jianguo Road) and motorized vehicle volumes swarm existing facilities to a point of saturation.
Public Transport. Anshan Public Transport Company 30 routes in Anshan, of which 26 are bus lines,
three are trolley-bus lines and one is a tram line. Total operating length is 410.8 km. The company utilizes
839 vehicles with a staff of 8452 to serve 260 million person-trips per year. The tram line is one of the few
existing in China and plays a significant role in the public transit network in Anshan. Yet, the tram
operates in mixed traffic over much of its service area, causing slow operating speeds and compromising
passenger safety.
Due to poor operating conditions in mixed traffic, bus speeds averaged 12 km/hr. in 1997, and 5-8 km./hr
in the peak periods. As a result, bus mode shares have declined sharply in recent years. One problem is
that the private intercity bus and public transport route network is especially dense and congested in the
CBD area in front of Zhanqian Railway area.
The municipal government initiated a public transport reform program in 1992. One element of the reform
program was to establish No. 4 branch company, as an independent entity operating minibuses by contract.
By end 1996, No. 4 branch company had 228 mini-buses all operated by individual contractors (former
APTC employees). In addition, APTC began a pilot to franchise select public transport routes to a private
operator from Hong Kong in May, 1998. Fare and service levels are regulated by APTC and the operator
provides vehicles with no protection from competition. The concession is for 15 years.
Strategic steps which remain for public transport in Anshan include development of a regulatory capacity
to manage competition within the sector. In addition to participation of private operators within APTC, the
Transport Bureau also licenses minibuses, long-distance operators (who often "scoop" local passengers
taking cross town trips), and taxis which compete directly with APTC.
Road Maintenance. It is estimated that the class I road network is generally in fair-to-good condition,
while class 2 and 3 roads are in much worse shape. In 1986, the Anshan Maintenance Department was
reformed as an independent state owned enterprise and does not receive any salary subsidies from the
municipality. The Company continues to retain the role of a maintenance unit, however, as it decides
which road will be treated and to what standards. Moreover, it remains a monopoly with poor utilization of



Page 86                                        Annex 15
labor and equipment.
Strategic choices for the municipality center on the need to separate maintenance planning from execution,
and introducing competitive tendering to promote efficiency. Several initiatives to support this reform are
under consideration and some will be piloted under the project. Regardless of the direction of reform,
however, it is imperative that maintenance budgets must also be brought up to sustainable levels.
Traffic Management. Traffic operating conditions have deteriorated with increasing motorization of traffic
and the mixed use of the roadway by motorized and non-motorized users. Chronic congestion is found at
key locations in the peak periods, and have worsened over time. In response, AMG has begun instituting
traffic management measures such as truck bans and vehicle license plate programs. Further development
of these, including development of bus priority measures, circulation schemes, and parking management are
proposed in the project.
Traffic management is currently a shared responsibility among the Anshan Municipal Construction Office,
traffic Management Bureau, Municipal Engineering Bureau and Urban Planning and Design Research
Institute. It is proposed to establish a comprehensive urban traffic management committee to strengthen
policy coordination and regulation of traffic operations.
Institutional Capacity. Overall sector policy is the responsibility of the Leading Group for Road Order,
Management and Improvement. However, comprehensive planning, regulation and policy-making for the
sector continues to be weak. The lack of regulatory policies is beginning to result in "chaotic competition"
for the public transport market. Traffic management and planning activities are not well developed or
coordinated.



IBRD 30063
CHINA                                                               ,3,=                                                                                        1:                                                RULS Al.EDERATIOrI   (' >A
LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT-
SHENYANG
'!                                                                A~~~~~~~~OGO 
.  I, l " % +- < _ < ~~~~~>A9eLA,GP ,:75
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,r   . DS  *'"EE
METERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                            C   \1 ..   =        =   e             A Pf) U TR    A L L
.  ,,, ,, RiYer_  X "- - y . . . , - . - 8 BUS R~                                                                                                                   COop  PHIAEPARFCLIT
I)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OD
Nongi  /                                                                                                                                                                  /1                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW ROADS AT GRADE
N9,,                                                                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW ELEVATED ROAD
j.S~~~-~r                                                                        1                  APP~W                        ROADW DENINO
i!P.Aez : . rh ...... Mr. esJlylleMopDnsignunsiofSeworldHoni .................................                                       -                                                                   I-                                                   - = MVONLiTREETSA. .ROADS
~~ll ~~~MAINTENANCE
060000000   000 --                                                                               INTERCHANGE
. . .... 0luo                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILWAY GRADE CROOD N, IMPRO.VEMENT
t00               0oo        V                                                                                                     TRAFFICw -MANAGEMENT
NMV OILY ROAD (SHORT TERM)
N  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   *~~~~~~OO\  0000  K.  :   t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NMV OItLY ROAD (LONIG TERM)
E                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAFF C SIGNAL COORDINATIODN
ONE WAY STREET
PEDESTRIAN ONLY STREET
OFTT STREET PARKING
M SOING LINK CONNECT 011
*                         JD~~~~~~~~~~~1W-nh.                                                                                         PUBtEJLIC TRANSPORT
+                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTER LANIES EUSWAY
I  /                            g                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIDE BJS LANE (SHORT TERM)
OTT  1000  1055    2SSD  2000   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                           - -  -    SIDE REID LANE )GNG TERM)~~~h.gq,,.iSID  BS AN  (ON  TRM
r   ,                                     S           Chongq,ngx,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  BS EM  A
METERS                                     iIRTTRNA
II  REver                           I                                                                                                          EDO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  U  REPA R FACILISTY
I    CoMp Aee. I d ApoTh WOPITA-P                                                                                                                                                                                                        MDAItII STR EETS ANG RO ADS
. P <  lO  WoHplSon D-~ G p,o                                                                                                                                                                                                            RA LEGATO
SUILT-IT AREAS



I    'S''-                   11                                                                           .                                      1501
Ti, Tip w=s p6 d-Aod by ,h Mp Dtsigo U,i, of Th. World Bo-L
Theboundooo, colon. db- omi-i-io- o-d yoth,inh mofoi-n- Ahow
-   oonh      donotply - n i h. po -  of The WVood 3o.k G-oop, -oy
RUSSIAN FEDERATION         .
1'-                      !    '-  aCHINA
i k-' .--'7-/                                                       LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MONGOLA    2                                                                                     ANSHAN
> ., / -                                                                                 NEVf ROADS  PUBLIC TRANSPORT:
0~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~NEW ROADS                                                                      BUS LANES
RO\                                 ;0f v StEtNx'uit ROAD WIDENING/ RECONSTRUCTION    BUS AND NMV ONLY ROAD
pNGttAI,    A   '    ,_) ', X ,j.f.    ;,                          |          MAINTENANCE                           *00-***  TRAMLINE EXCLUSIVE ROW
00000I siso r.  tEtlAN,'0'l   JlANijRO; '                       0   j; * WUYI INTERCHANGE                               TRAM AND NMV ONLY ROAD
AND BUS TERMINAL
0                   Koop                 51CI#/AN X tUtS -\F R gSHAHE BRIDGE
TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                               RIVERS
0      JUNCTION CHANNELIZATION             ~  =         STREETS AND ROADS
>0000                              t                              6jN ' W ............................                                           ' -NMV ONLY ROAD  RAILROADS
O    .HAIIA N Dtg  L                  OFF-STREET PARKING                                BUILT-UP AREAS
TROIANE REP  , ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~FFSTET AZKN



___________________________________________                                                                                                                                                          IRRO 3006?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR 306
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
/-.   I ]        I '   ,,CHINA
-.i  7                                                                             LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
MONGOLIA          ,>   >   '-         -                                                                                              FUSHUN
, o(        - L/0
ROADS.                                TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                               PUBLIC TRANSPORT                                  RIVERS
NEW ROADS            *                JUNCTION CHANNELIZATION              .           BUS LANES / BUS AND NMV ONLY ROAD         -        MAIN STREETS AND ROADS
\ ,t;___ XI_ ROAD WIDENING               -       NMV ONLY ROAD                                                                           ------'  OTHER STREETS AND ROADS
ANUUAN5                                                 -     SurAANw r~' HeNAN r   ;S19r . '  MAINTENANCE  AREAWIDE COMPREHENSIVE TRAFFIC                                                              BUILT-UP AREAS
S     INTERCHANGE
- . .  F ONE-WAY STREET
WANXIN BRIDGE
......N..                                                                                             PEDESTRIAN ONLY STREET
_.** U * AMISSING LINK CONNECTION
YUNNAN      UUNU . ,' ~           7L'.-b   / 1$                                                                                                                            __   
- -             GT II                                        O*c NGfg7 Bd. .o^_~j_
RF,dge  ~                  i            InI.FCF,on e P' #
'U--
( ,tUCH5gC SOe _ io~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACH15
//  /1 - WNGZHo/u
LISHz  . i-^                     >                     =        =      - w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------
DM                                                                                             \                                 1\,          
R   IE PI .
GUCHEN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH19



