                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 36308

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (TF-29447 TF-25511 SCL-44530)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                          FOR A

                           LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                       June 29, 2006




Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 12, 2006)

                                   Currency Unit = RMB
                                      RMB 1.00 = US$ 0.124
                                        US$ 1.00 = RMB 8.05

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -  December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASPT  -  Anshan Public Transport              MV       -   Motorized Vehicle
ASTM   - Anshan Traffic Management            MVECS    -   Motor Vehicles Emissions Control Strategy
ATC    - Area Traffic Control                 NCB      -   National Competitive Bidding
CAS    - Country Assistance Strategy          NMV      -   Non-Motorized Vehicle
EA     - Environmental Assessment             NPV      -   Net Present Value
EAP    - Environmental Action Plan            PAD      -   Project Appraisal Document
EIA    - Environmental Impact Assessment      PHRD     -   Policy and Human Resources Development
EPB    - Environment Protection Bureau                     Fund
ERR    - Economic Rate of Return              PIP      -   Project Implementation Plan
FSPT   - Fushun Public Transport              PPMO     -   Provincial Project Management Office
FSTM   - Fushun Traffic Management            PO       -   Project Office
GOC    - Government of China                  PSR      -   Project Supervision Report
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding    PT       -   Public Transport
ICR    - Implementation Completion Report     RAP      -   Resettlement Action Plan
LUCRPO - Liaoning Urban Construction and      SOE      -   Statement of Expenditures
         Renewal Project Office               SYPT     -   Shenyang Public Transport
LUTP   - Liaoning Urban Transport Project     SYTM     -   Shenyang Traffic Management
MOF    - Ministry of Finance                  VOC      -   Vehicle Operating Costs




                                 Vice President:   Jeffrey Gutman, Acting EAPVP
                               Country Director    David R. Dollar, EACCF
                                Sector Manager     Jitendra N. Bajpai, EASTR
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager        Shomik Mehndiratta, EASTR

                                                CHINA
                                    CN-Liaoning Urban Transport


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
    6. Sustainability                                                                15
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
    9. Partner Comments                                                              21
    10. Additional Information                                                       32
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             33
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             37
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             40
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             46
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                47
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            48
MAPS
1. Shenyang Map (IBRD No. 30063R)
2. Fushun Map (IBRD No. 30062R)
3. Anshan Map (IBRD No. 30061R)

Project ID: P041890                                                  Project Name: CN-Liaoning Urban Transport
Team Leader: Shomik Raj Mehndiratta                                  TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: CN-Liaoning Urban Transport                              L/C/TF Number: TF-29447; TF-25511;
                                                                                                     SCL-44530
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (89%); General transportation sector (7%); Sub-national government
                            administration (4%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Municipal governance and institution building (S); Access to urban
                            services and housing (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/29/1996                                     Effective: 06/01/1999                12/28/1999
     Appraisal: 02/25/1999                                         MTR: 06/01/2001                  12/18/2002
      Approval: 03/30/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal
                                           Project Office (LUCRPO)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Jitendra N. Bajpai                             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Team Leader at ICR:             Shomik Raj Mehndiratta                         Richard G. Scurfield
ICR Primary Author:             Rakhi Basu


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The development objective of the project (PDO) was to improve urban transport system productivity so as
to facilitate economic and social development within the project cities. Specifically, the project was
designed to: (1) alleviate bottlenecks in the road system through the development of high grade facilities,
secondary roads, rail crossings, missing links and widenings, (2) increase efficiency and effectiveness of the
public transport (PT) through the development of bus corridors and passenger facilities and modernized
maintenance facilities; (3) improve maintenance of road investments through development of modernized
and sustainable pavement management system; (4) improve environmental sustainability of project
investments through development of a motor vehicle emissions control strategy (MVECS); (5) improve
operational efficiency and safety of the road system through channelization of modal traffic and
development of Non Motor Vehicle (NMV) facilities, signalization and other traffic management measures;
and (6) strengthen local capacity of urban transport system management through study tours, technical
assistance and targeted training.   1/




Assessment of Objectives - The objectives of the project were clear and supported the Government's
priorities of the time. The major issues facing the urban transport sector in China stemmed from increasing
motorization, rapid urbanization, inefficient public transport and poorly coordinated institutional
arrangements for managing urban traffic. Specifically, urban traffic congestion was already an important
constraint to urban productivity. To address these issues, a symposium was held in Beijing in 1995, and
identified five principles that should guide urban transport planning and operations in China. The    2/


sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goals of the project were to: (i) promote growth with economic
stability; (ii) alleviate infrastructure constraints; and (iii) safeguard the environment. For the three project
cities of Shenyang, Fushun and Anshan, the project was designed to contribute to these goals by increasing
city-wide productivity and raising the standard of living for the cities' inhabitants, through targeted and
sustainable improvements to the urban transport system.

From a sectoral perspective, this was the third urban transport operation undertaken by the Bank in China
in the early-to-mid 1990s. At the time of appraisal, the road network in the three project cities was
inadequate with poor conditions on the secondary and tertiary system. Public transit was steadily losing
mode share to minibus and auto/taxi travel due to slow operating speeds (in the city center public transport
speeds averaged 12 km/hr. and 5-8 km/hr. in the peak period), and a poor route and transfer network. A
public transport reform program had been initiated in each city to maintain and attract public transport
riders through improved services while reducing the need for subsidies. Limited application of traffic

____________________________________

1/  It should be noted that the development objective (DO) in the PAD are not consistent with the objective stated
    in the legal agreement, but is not different in substance. The report has used the DO from the PAD since it
    was more complete.

2/  The suggested actions based on these principles were the following: (i) reform urban transport administration;
    (ii) upgrade the status of traffic management; (iii) prepare a strategy to mitigate motor vehicle air and noise
    pollution; (iv) develop policies to manage traffic demand; (v) develop a strategy for mass transit; (vi) reform
    public transport management and operations; (vii) develop a financing strategy for the transport sector; (viii)
    strengthen the framework for transport planning and capacity building.




                                                         - 2 -

management measures primarily due to a lack of knowledge of traffic management practices had resulted in
deteriorating road conditions. In all three cities, comprehensive planning, regulation and policy-making for
the sector were weak, and traffic management and planning activities were not well developed or
coordinated. Viewed against this background, the project objectives were clear and well related to the
analysis of the issues in the sector and responsive to the borrower's needs at that time.

The rationale of the project was rooted in the traffic management program which was expanded in scope
from area traffic control to include other elements such as channelization, NMV route development and
parking, and in the road maintenance component which was expanded from equipment purchase to include
some rehabilitation works. However, the most significant redesign of the infrastructure component during
project preparation supported transformation of the public transport component to include public transport
reform and the provision of bus priority facilities. As a result, this component evolved from one which was
heavily vehicle-oriented to a broader based program of reform and investment. Thus the project objectives
represented a balanced emphasis on physical works and institutional capacity building in the sector.

However, the project was ambitious, and contained features, some of which were in advance of their time.
In retrospect, what made the project's strength, the new ideas and concepts it introduced were also its major
weakness. Besides traditional elements of road upgrades and expansions, it included bold actions on road
maintenance, traffic management and bus priority. Therefore, it was complex with regard to institutional
arrangement, scope and design. There were three cities, each with four subcomponents, a large number of
investments in each component, to be managed by several institutions. The project was risky due to the
introduction of new concepts in light of weak local experience and institutional capacity. While these risks
were well worth taking to advance the thinking on traffic management and bus priority, these components
were designed without a full understanding that a significant cultural shift had to occur for some of these
concepts to be successful. This was a notable weakness in the project and was felt throughout its life.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project development objectives have remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:

There were four components, one each for the cities of Shenyang, Fushun and Anshan, and a fourth
component for institutional strengthening and technical assistance (TA). Each city component comprised
of four subcomponents: public transport, traffic management, infrastructure, and road maintenance. In
general, the investment components in each city were designed to achieve the corresponding objectives 1, 2,
3 & 5 above, while the institutional strengthening was designed to achieve objectives 4 & 6. The
components were scoped taking account of the sector issues in each city discussed in Annex 15 of the PAD.
The subcomponents in each city were:

Shenyang

Public Transport. Construction of a bus maintenance repair facility, bus terminus and bus priority
facilities, including a proposed exclusive center-lane busway.

Traffic Management. Traffic management improvements to 38 local roads including channelization of
intersections, road widening, an area traffic control system, traffic signs and markings, the development of
pedestrian facilities and the provision of 18.1 km of NMV exclusive roads.




                                                      - 3 -

Road Infrastructure. Construction of three major east-west corridors: Beiye-Lianhe corridor,. the
Jianshe-Nanwu Road improvements and the Pangjiang Jie Street section of the First Ring Road. It also
included the construction of the Gonghe Railway overpass, the Gonghe Interchange, the Fangxinig Square
interchange.

Road Maintenance. Re-surfacing and reconstruction of 43 local roads, and the purchase of road
maintenance equipment.

Fushun

Public Transport. Provision of modern bus maintenance equipment and development 6.7 km of exclusive
bus priority facilities on existing and improved roads.

Traffic Management. Improved traffic management facilities along two major road corridors and in one
area, and seventeen junctions will be included in a coordinated traffic control system.

Road Infrastructure. Construction of 18.5 km Hunhenan expressway along the south bank of the Hun
River, and a parallel 18.3 km local service road. The project will also finance the Wanxin bridge and
interchange.

Road Maintenance. Reconstruction and paving of 15.5 km of roadway, along four routes and purchase of
modern road maintenance equipment.

Anshan

Public Transport. Construction of 6.2 km of tramway and 5.4 km of busway, purchase of equipment, and
construction of a bus transfer station which will serve 17 bus routes.

Traffic Management. Channelization of eight junctions, development of 5.6 km of NMV exclusive roads,
and finance of off-street parking facilities, provision of traffic signal equipment, signs and marking, and
specialized management vehicles.

Road Infrastructure. Construction of nine facilities including improvements to the principal north-south
(Jianguo) corridor in the city, the Wuyi interchange, and the Shahe Bridge (which will provide an improved
truck route to the north of the city).

Road Maintenance. Reconstruction of Hongqi Road (4 km), sidewalks along six roads, and selected
improvements to other urban roads.

The TA component consisted of consulting services to support project management, (bidding document
preparation and construction supervision), domestic and international training and seven studies: (i) Bus
priority design; (ii) Public transport reform; (iii) Area traffic signal control (ATC) system; (iv) Parking
policy; (v) Traffic accident analysis; (vi) Road Maintenance plans; and (vii) Motor vehicle emission control
strategy (MVECS).

3.4 Revised Components:

During the first year of implementation, Shenyang informed the Bank that the city was going to construct a
major new East-West Expressway through the city center. Such construction was inconsistent with the
basis of the Bank-financed road infrastructure component in the city which was designed on the


                                                       - 4 -

understanding that a major new road building within the center of the city should be avoided as far as
possible. The proposal to construct this major new road, announced without any consultation with the
Bank, undermined some of the rationale for the original Bank-financed component in Shenyang.

A reappraisal of the value of the subcomponents that were to be financed by the Bank in Shenyang, was
therefore required. The main changes resulting from the reappraisal were the cancellation of the
Jianshe-Nanwu expressway and the extension of Beiyi Lu out to the second ring road. The public transport
component was also changed: the bus maintenance facility and the Da Dong bus terminal were dropped
because of land acquisition difficulties.

The Fushun road infrastructure component was also modified; the Project financed a different bridge
(Yong'An) from the one originally appraised (Wang Xin). A summary of the most significant changes to
each project component is provided below.

Shenyang

Public Transport. The bus maintenance facility and the bus terminal were deleted. This reduced the total
cost of the component by more than 75%.

Traffic Management. The main change was redesign of the NMV roads for non-motorized vehicles.

Road Infrastructure. The Jianshe-Nanwu expressway was cancelled and a 4 km section was included to
extend the Beiyi Road westwards to the Second Ring Road.

Road Maintenance. This component increased significantly in size from 43 roads with a length of 51 kms
to 67 roads with a length of 76 kms. Seven new roads were added to the original list of 15 road sections.

Fushun

Road Infrastructure. Replacement of the construction of Wanxin Bridge with the reconstruction of
Yongan Bridge.

Road Maintenance. Some road sections were added to the maintenance works, and expansion joints were
placed in the existing bridges.

Anshan

Road maintenance. Investment was increased from one road 4 kms. long to include seven roads with a
total length of 20.86 kms.

Revised Component Summary

Overall, the revisions were not major, the most significant being the use of the unallocated amount and a
shift in loan funding from works for construction of road infrastructure to works for road maintenance
(supporting project objective 3 to improve maintenance). A smaller reallocation increased the amounts to
be spent on traffic management in support of project objective 5. There was no restructuring, and so the
reallocation was presented to the Board, for approval on a "No Objection" basis.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no formal quality at entry assessment. Based on the analysis undertaken for the ICR, the quality
at entry of the project is rated moderately satisfactory.




                                                     - 5 -

§        The objectives reflect the Bank's strong priority to support the broader urban transport agenda in
China and to ensure the commitment of the cities through support of local initiatives. An AID funded
transport study was undertaken in 1988, and local officials recommenced their study of transport needs in
1994. These studies were being completed around the time of the Bank's initial involvement in the project
in March of 1996. The cities then created project offices to coordinate project activities and develop
transportation policies. There was strong involvement of the local officials in all project preparation
activities through the newly established project offices in each city. In addition the Bank team maintained a
continuous dialogue with city leaders during project preparation.

§        Safeguards policies were adequate and adhered to during project design.

§        The project was complex with regard to institutional arrangements, scope and design. There were
three cities, each with four subcomponents, and a large number of investments in each component, to be
managed by several institutions. Each city was effectively a separate project. The advantages of a
multi-city operation, at a provincial level, such as economies of scale were not evident.

§        The overall project was in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy as well as the Chinese
Government's strategy for the urban transport sector. However, even by the time of appraisal in late 1998,
the agreements from the 1995 symposium had not been widely promulgated by central government
agencies, or explicitly accepted by the cities. The five subcomponents in each city reflected Chinese
Government and World Bank thinking at the time on the need for an integrated project and were similar in
size, technical and institutional complexity to the components in the previous single city urban transport
projects in Shanghai and Guangzhou.

§        The project was ambitious with regard to the aspirations, and the design of the some of the
components should perhaps have been more modest, limited to more pilot demonstration schemes. The
Bank was perhaps over ambitious in the scope of the traffic management and road safety subcomponents,
especially in wishing to develop non-motorized vehicle facilities and bus priority measures, even though
cycling and public transport were two of the main travel modes. Therefore, the risk with regard to
acceptability of these two items as well as technical capacity of the implementing agency to implement
them was underestimated.

§        The risk assessment was weak as there was no reference to the risks related to the traffic
management component. The risk of potential changes in local support for project components was rated
as negligible.

§        Some of the output indicators were in reality outcome indicators, while some of the indicators did
not relate to the Project Development Objectives. This in part reflected the lack of understanding at that
time of the different types of indicators, but also the difficulty of defining appropriate indicators.

§        The Project was described as a collection of investments, rather than programs derived from the
PDOs, and the key policy and institutional reforms the project was designed to support. The project
description reflected the way the Borrower viewed the Project - as a series of discrete contracts to be
implemented rather than as a set of actions contributing towards the overall objectives. The description
made it difficult to monitor progress of key programs (like bus priority and MV) and was not repeated in
subsequent urban transport projects. It also did little to assist the Borrower to take a broader policy
orientated view of the interventions.




                                                      - 6 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall project development objective of improving the urban transport system productivity in
Shenyang, Fushun, and Anshan to facilitate economic and social development within the project cities was
substantially achieved, and therefore is rated satisfactory. A detailed assessment on the achievement of the
six specific objectives and their corresponding ratings are presented below.

Alleviate bottleneck in the road sector by improving the road system through the development of high
grade facilities, secondary roads, rail crossings, missing links and widening

The achievement of this objective is satisfactory. All the capacity expansion and missing links for the
three cities were completed satisfactorily. The performance indicator for this objective was reduction in
travel time. Travel time on all corridors selected reduced significantly indicating a decrease in congestion:
in Shenyang on Line 1 (12.5 km) from 0.87 h to 0.4 h and on Line 2 from 0.57 h to 0.35 h; in Fushun
(24.8 km) from 0.9 h to 0.5 h; and in Anshan (9.4 km) from 0.37 h to 0.26 h.

The modification of the subcomponents in Shenyang and Fushun enhanced the achievement of this
objective. In Shenyang the extension of Beiyu Lu significantly improved the connectivity between three
erstwhile discontinuous areas separated by railway lines. In Fushun, the addition of Yong'An Bridge
provided greater road capacity between the central areas on each side of the river. This also improved the
quality and capacity of cross river public transport services.

Increase efficiency and effectiveness of the public transport through the development of bus corridors
and passenger facilities and modernized maintenance facilities

The achievement of this objective is rated moderately satisfactory. The outcome indicators for this
component were: (i) average operating cost per revenue km. of service; and (ii) annual subsidy for public
transport service. Average operating costs in Shenyang reduced from 3.21 to 2.5 RMB/km, in Fushun,
from 3.26 to 2.27 RMB/km, and in Anshan, from 3.7 to 3.03 RMB/km. These reductions far exceed the
5% reduction target agreed at negotiations.

In Shenyang and Anshan there was a complete elimination of subsidy, and in Fushun, the subsidy is close
to 0. However, none of the investment component in the public transport directly supported this indicator.
The reduction in subsidy took place as a result of the ongoing reform program in the city and therefore was
achieved outside of LUTP. In sum, the public transport component measured the overall policy impact of
the project and supported the transport sector strategy in Liaoning, but did not measure the direct impact of
the investments.

Improve maintenance of road investments through development of modernized and sustainable
pavement management system

The achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. The performance indicators associated with this
objective were: (i) pavement condition ­ increase in share of roads in good condition; (ii) sustainable
maintenance budget ­ an increase in budgets; and (iii) the average cost of maintenance performed ­ reduce
average maintenance costs.




                                                     - 7 -

Between 1998 and 2004, there was an increase in the percent of Class I and II roads in good condition, in
all three cities. In Shenyang, the percentage increased from 50% to 80% in 2004, far exceeding the
performance indicator target of 57.5%, and directly related to the increase in road maintenance funded in
the project. In Fushun, the increase was from 80% to 87% in 2004, slightly less than the 10% increase
target. In Anshan, the increase was for 68% to 72 % in 2004, an increase of 6%, somewhat less than the
10% performance indicator target.

Funding for road maintenance was increased in all three cities; in Shenyang from 57 million RMB in 1999,
to 120 million in 2004 (against a target of RMB 80 million); in Fushun from 8.75 million RMB in 1998 to
81 million in 2004 (against a target of RMB 13.25 million); and in Anshan from 5 million RMB to 5.6
million RMB (lower than the target of RMB 7.5 million).

The average cost of maintenance performed increased in all three cities, compared to the performance
indicator target of a reduction of 5%: from 40 to 50 RMB/m2 in Shenyang, from 40 to 147 RMB/m2 in
Fushun, and from 60 to 66 RMB/m2 in Anshan. However, these increases do not reflect a reduction in
efficiency. Rather, they reflect increases in the cost of materials (principally asphalt), and wage rates. In
Fushun, the large increase is attributed to a greater amount of reconstruction work being undertaken in
2004 compared to routine maintenance in 1999.

Improve environmental sustainability of project investments through development of a motor vehicle
emissions control strategy

The achievement of this objective is rated moderately satisfactory. The performance indicators agreed at
negotiations were: (i) development of an MVECS strategy - each city to undertake TA for a study to be
completed by 2001; (ii) adoption and implementation of the strategy ­ strategy to include development of
an Inspection/Maintenance Program; and (iii) air quality standards (mentioned in section A2 of the PAD
but not elsewhere and was not pursued).

With regard to the indicators, the development and adoption of an MVECS strategy was done, but the
strategy was independently developed by the Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB). There is little
evidence that the strategy developed under the Bank project had a significant role in pushing the debate
forward. The MVECS study was completed in July 2003, which was behind the target completion
schedule. It did raise general awareness on the topic, but the recommendations under this study were not
implemented.

Shenyang has developed a motor vehicle emission control institutional structure in 2004 as a pilot city in
China. It has become one of the pilot cities to develop a market oriented system to implement MVECS and
other cities now come to Shenyang to learn this system. Moreover, Liaoning Environmental Protection
Bureau now has worked on a further study following this one using its own funds. Since Shenyang's
system was a pilot nationally, Anshan and Fushun developed their own systems afterward. However, all of
this was achieved under the locally developed strategy.

Improve operational efficiency and safety of road system through channelization of modal traffic and
development of NMV facilities, signalization and other traffic management measures

The achievement of this objective is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The indicators for this
component were the following: (i) system throughput measured by screen line flows by mode with road
system occupancy and travel time; and (ii) total accidents, total deaths, and percent involving pedestrians
and bicyclists.




                                                      - 8 -

In Fushun, overall flows on the Donshan Road corridor used for analysis decreased as car and truck traffic
diverted to the parallel and more convenient Hunghun Nan Road. In Anshan, overall flows increased by
15% in one corridor and 66% in the other, while travel times decreased by 30 % and 39%, and vehicle
occupancy increased. In Shenyang, overall flows increased by 76% in Line 1. Bicycle and pedestrian
flows were not measured, but from observation pedestrian and bicycle throughput in all cities has gone up
­ though not necessarily due to traffic management measures.

There was a reduction in accidents in all three cities, which exceeded the target reduction of 15%, but this
was not location-specific, and therefore it is unclear how much can be attributed to the project.

Despite outcomes which generally meet the indicator targets, the achievement of this objective is
unsatisfactory for the following reasons. A recurring theme in all three cities was the overemphasis of the
provision of space for motorized traffic and the inadequate attention given to the needs of bicycles and
pedestrians (including in the performance indicators). In fact, in many locations, the available road width
for motorized traffic was increased, while the space allocated to NMVs and, specifically, pedestrians was
reduced; for example: (i) in Shenyang, on several Bank financed street improvements approved designs
were changed so that pedestrian sidewalks were shared with bicyclists who were forced off the roadways to
make way for motorized vehicles; (ii) in Anshan, an old concept of junction channelization was employed
which focused on increasing capacity for motor vehicles by adding extra lanes; and (iii) in Fushun, there
were no safety islands for pedestrians and junctions were not designed properly either to protect pedestrians
or guide flows of bicycles and motor vehicles.

It became clear during the course of implementation, that the Bank and the three cities had a very different
understanding of `channelization' and of modern traffic management measures. This was exacerbated by
the lack of technical capability in the cities.

Strengthen local capacity of urban transport system management through study tours, technical
assistance and targeted training

The achievement of this objective is rated as moderately satisfactory. The outcome indicator was defined
as "enhanced local capacities and improved decision making", and the output indicator was "quality of
projects" with a critical assumption that staff knowledge gained is incorporated into professional practice.
Neither of these is measurable, but relies on professional judgment. Three items of TA designed to provide
support for implementation (for bid document preparation, construction supervision and ATC bid
documents) did improve the quality of these project activities, but in the absence of documentation
specifically addressing the improvement in local capacity, it is difficult to say to what extent this happened.
The Borrower considers that all three have improved local capacity, but not to the extent that local staff
could perform these tasks without some TA support in future.

Seven studies were undertaken. The cities indicated that the studies on road maintenance and accident
analysis were particularly useful, with the recommendations being implemented, and that they received
good recommendations from the parking study. The study on bus exclusive way design was satisfactory,
but the advice was ahead of municipal thinking, so the desired outcome was not achieved. While the
quality of MVECS and bus reform has improved in Liaoning, to the point where the province is considered
amongst the national leaders, there is no discernable link between the TA and this high quality. Overall,
there appears to have been some strengthening of local capacity or improvement in project quality from the
studies. In sum, although the implementation of the technical assistance and training activities was
identified in the PAD as an important element for project sustainability, the impact was only marginal.



                                                      - 9 -

4.2 Outputs by components:


Shenyang

In aggregate, the outputs were satisfactory.

Public Transport. The output is moderately unsatisfactory. The majority of the component was
cancelled. Several bus priority schemes were implemented and are operational but none of them were part
of the original project concept. These were not particularly well conceived and thus not very effective. In
most cases, bus lanes were provided without any reduction in overall capacity for motor vehicles (MV). In
these cases, the previously segregated NMV lanes were dispensed with, and cycles combined with
pedestrians on the footways were all reduced in width. Travel times were reduced significantly, but in large
part due to traffic reorganization (introduction of one-way patterns etc.) rather than the priority.

Travel time reduction was one of the output indicators. Travel time on Line 1 reduced from 26 minutes to
19 minutes and on Line 2 from 22 minutes to 12 minutes. Average occupancy along Line 2 in PT increased
from 75% to 80%. In Shenyang the percent of bus fleet available for service increased from 91% to 99%.
However, it should be noted that this data was collected by the implementing agency and could not be
verified by the Bank.

Traffic Management. The output is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The component consisted of three
packages of equipment (including for ATC and CCTV), as well as work related to NMV lanes, junction
channelization and improvements in pedestrian facilities. The CCTV, ATC and other equipment was
delivered and installed, and pedestrian facilities were constructed. However, the work related to NMV
lanes, junction channelization and other improvements was unsatisfactory for the following reasons; (i)
road space remained primarily designed to serve motorists with inadequate facilities for pedestrians and
bicyclists, (ii) even where safety islands for pedestrians were provided at the marked crossings cars did not
give way to bicyclists/pedestrians crossing between the road edge and the safety islands, creating dangerous
conditions, and (iii) the marked refuge islands did not provide pedestrians with adequate safety.

Road Infrastructure. This component is rated satisfactory. There were six civil works ICB contracts
under this component, they were all completed on time, and the quality of work was considered good. Three
major corridors have been developed under the project, including the construction of 6 km of Beiyi Road,
reconstruction of east-west roads to form a contiguous corridor, the construction of the Gonghe Railway
overpass and the Gonghe Interchange, and the construction of Changjian Underpass. The third corridor is
Pangjiang Street, a four-lane section of the First Ring Road, which have been improved to a six-lane
standard of 2 km in length.

Road Maintenance. This component is rated moderately satisfactory. It included purchase of equipment
(14 ICB contracts) as well as civil works (22 contracts totaling 157 km). All contracts were completed, and
road maintenance equipment procured. However, in some cases, the new cross-sections were initially
inconsistent with the appraised designs -- segregated NMV lanes were removed and NMVs pushed onto the
sidewalk. In these cases the appraised cross-sections (including segregated NMV lanes) were restored, but
only after the Bank's intervention during supervision.




                                                      - 10 -

Fushun

In aggregate, the outputs were satisfactory.

Public Transport. The output is satisfactory. The exclusive busways were implemented, but the
procurement of the bus maintenance equipment was cancelled. Travel time on Yongji Road to Xiyi Road
reduced from 10 minutes to 7 minutes, average bus occupancy remained unchanged at 69%. The
percentage of bus fleet in Fushun increased from 91% to 96%, meeting the target 5% increase.

Traffic Management. The output is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The project financed improved
traffic management facilities along two major road (Dandong and Xincheng Roads) corridors and in one
area. An ATC system was implemented at 58 junctions, of which six were implemented with reasonable
design. Most of the junctions were not designed properly to either protect pedestrians or guide flows of
bicycles and motor vehicles.

Road Infrastructure. The output is rated satisfactory. All works were completed satisfactorily. The
revised subcomponent included the reconstruction of the Yongan Bridge. The request to use Bank funds
came late in the project implementation period, and the loan closing date was extended from December 31
2004 to December 31, 2005 to allow completion of the reconstruction works. These were completed to a
high quality in a few months, well justifying the loan extension.

Road Maintenance. The output of this subcomponent is rated moderately satisfactory. The size of this
component was increased during the restructuring. The scope of work consisted mainly of repaving and
reconstruction, as well as purchase of modern road equipment. The component had a significant positive
impact on the quality of the road. By adding grilles under asphalt enhanced road anti-pulling intensity and
tenacity, which reduces vehicle ruts by 50%. In addition, it resists reflection cracks and delay fatigue
crevice appears later than usual 1-9 times. Adding polyester fiber enhances temperature suitable ability,
reduces cost and makes construction easier. Polyester fiber is the predominant materials in improved
asphalt.

Anshan

In aggregate, the outputs were satisfactory.

Public Transport. The output is satisfactory. All works and bus priority facilities were constructed.
Travel time for public transport on South Jianguo Road reduced from 22 minutes to 15 minutes, and on
Renmin Road from 23 minutes to 18 minutes. Average occupancy in buses using Renmin road increased
from 70 percent to 82 percent. The percentage of bus fleet available for service increased from 91% to
94%, less than the target 5% increase.

Traffic Management. The output is rated moderately unsatisfactory. It consisted of traffic management
measures to improve 5.7 km of footways and provide equipment to implement safety medians and
pedestrian barriers. Eight junction channelization schemes were in the project. These schemes were
implemented but using the old concept of junction channelization which focused on increasing capacity for
motor vehicles by adding extra lanes. There were no safety islands for pedestrians or non-conflicting
pedestrian phases.




                                                    - 11 -

Road Infrastructure. The output is rated satisfactory. In Anshan, the project made improvements along
approximately 8 km of the principal north-south (Jianguo) corridor in the city, and along 4 km of
Huangang Road/Yongchange Street, principal east-west axis of the city. In addition, Wuiyi interchange
with 8 ramps was constructed at a major north-south, east­west junction. Reconstruction of 1.8 km
Ladong road, and the construction of Shahe Bridge (which now provides an improved truck route to the
north of the city) were also completed under this component. There were seven civil works packages, five
ICBs and two NCBs.

Road Maintenance. The output is rated moderately satisfactory, primarily because some roads were
widened as a part of maintenance. The original scope consisted of reconstruction of 4 km of Hongqi Road.
However, during the restructuring seven other roads totaling 20.86 km was added to the project. The work
also consisted of pedestrian sidewalk maintenance on six roads. Eleven road maintenance equipment were
also purchased under this component. The component consists of four items, three NCB and one ICB
package. New materials, new technology and new technique have improved road maintenance
considerably.

Capacity Building

The output is rated moderately satisfactory. The output consisted of three sets of consulting services,
seven studies, eleven domestic study tours and fifteen international study tours. The consulting services for
Bid Document Preparation and Construction Supervision were undertaken by the same firm and produced
satisfactory outputs well regarded by LUCRPO. The output of the third consulting service for preparation
of ATC Bidding Documents was also fully satisfactory.

Studies. In general, the study reports did not respond fully to the study objectives and TOR. For several of
them, there was limited consultation with local officials, and the study was done primarily from a remote
location. Two consulting firms each undertook three of the studies.     The studies could have benefited
from closer supervision and broader consultation with local officials and stakeholders. The following table
presents an assessment of the quality of the output of the studies, and the use to which it was put. A
Summary of Technical Assistance Studies is presented in Annex 1.

Training. There were around 500 participants for the domestic study tours, over 100 participants for the
international study tours, consisting both of managerial and technical staff. Specific local training sessions
were also conducted and local staff was well trained which have built a good basis for the successful
implementation of the project as the sector development. In order to improve sector management and learn
advanced management skills, study tours with over 100 staff were conducted to USA, UK, France,
Australia, Thailand, Singapore and Hong Kong. Overall, the training achieved better results that the
studies. As a result of the domestic and international training, a local team with good management and
technical skills has been established.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The ex-post economic evaluation was performed by the Borrower using the same methodology applied
during project preparation. The results (see Annex 3 for details) indicate that the actual rate of return in
Fushun (28.3 percent) was substantially higher than forecasted at appraisal (19.8 percent), at 20.6 percent
in-line with appraisal estimates of 20.8 percent in Anshan, and at 9.1 percent significantly lower than both
appraisal estimates (16.7 percent) and the opportunity cost of capital (12 percent) in Shenyang. Actual
population growth was in line with the projections and the increase of buses and trucks were only slightly
higher than projected. Actual rates of return benefited from: (i) higher than expected growth in passenger
vehicles; (ii) higher than expected growth of the income per-capita; and (iii) lower than estimated



                                                     - 12 -

construction costs. All of these factors generated a larger time savings value, for both owners and
passenger of vehicle and buses. The changes in the scope of the road infrastructure and public transport
components in Shenyang, particularly the cancellation of the Jianshe-Nanwu expressway and the bus
maintenance facility, resulted in the relatively low rate of return.

The final results showed that most sub-projects remained economically viable even in the worst-case
scenario which reflected a 25% increase in construction costs and 25% reduction in overall benefits. The
worst-case scenario did not take place and therefore it is concluded that the overall project was very robust
and that has indeed generated high economic returns for all the participating cities.


                          Results by City Shenyang      Anshan       Fushun       Project

                                                    Project Appraisal Document

                         EIRR               16.7%       20.8%         19.8%       17.4%

                                                  Implementation Completion Report

                         EIRR               9.1%        20.6%         28.3%       22.9%


4.4 Financial rate of return:

A financial rate of return was not calculated at the time of appraisal because there were no commercial
components included in the project, and therefore, the calculation of the FRR it is not applicable to the
implementation completion report.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated modest. There were no far reaching changes in the policy
and regulatory framework because of the project. Some important changes have taken place in the
institutional arrangements for the supply of public transport services, and for motor vehicle emission
control, especially inspection and maintenance (I/M)programs. However as noted earlier it is difficult to
assess the role of the project in engendering these changes.

The main tangible institutional development impact of the Project is a significant improvement in road
maintenance operations with regard to increased maintenance and improved budget. In addition,
competitive bidding for both NCB and ICB procurement is widely practiced today by all implementing
agencies. However, effective management of existing road space is still a low priority in Liaoning, as is the
preservation of road space for NMVs. In the past 12 months, Fushun has made some progress in adopting
and implementing good practice traffic management and parking policy concepts. These concepts also
seem to be better understood now in Shenyang and Anshan, but little change has taken place on the ground
so far.

The institutional development impact needs to be looked at collectively across the three cities and overall
there have been modest changes.




                                                      - 13 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Comments in this section refers to the municipal governments of the participating cities.

Change in the municipal political environment and succession of leaders ­ All cities had at least one
change in leadership during preparation and implementation and Shenyang had several more. The frequent
changes in leadership in Shenyang which were directly linked to the major corruption investigations in the
city were a significant drawback in the project. With each change in leadership the objectives and scope of
the project had to be explained all over again. These changes disrupted continuity and the ownership of the
project which was weak to begin with and was further compromised.

Delay in reallocation of funds - The reallocation of the funds subsequent to the restructuring of the project
was delayed due to China's decision in 2003 to reduce its borrowing, so there was a drive not to reallocate
loan savings, but to cancel them. Liaoning was unwilling to cancel funds. As China and the Bank were
actively working on the matter, there was a reluctance to process the reallocation until the situation was
resolved, which meant that the restructuring of the project took much longer than anticipated. The
Borrowing Limit crisis was solved in 2004, and the loan was reallocated.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

On the positive side, the public transport reform program proceeded well. Subsidies for public transport
have reduced in all three cities and in some instances have come down to zero. In Shenyang, the reform
agenda is well advanced, the SOE has been sold to a private company, the city has withdrawn from all
direct operation and routes are awarded for a five year duration.

On the negative side, the introduction of a new road in Shenyang immediately after the start of the project,
without consultation necessitated a reappraisal of the whole component. However, if this was done after
discussion with the Bank, a solution within the scope of the project could have been found and the
restructuring could have been avoided. The provincial Leading Group met infrequently. LUCRPO was not
given powers to deal with agencies that did not implement the project agreed at negotiations.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

A notable weakness in the project has been the implementation of the capacity building activities. As
discussed in Section 4.2, the outputs of several the studies were of poor quality and the recommendations
not well enough developed to be implemented. The consultants selected to conduct some studies lacked the
breadth and depth of qualifications and experience to conduct the studies to a high quality and the studies
were done with limited consulting with the local agencies. There was inadequate monitoring and follow up
of this component, to ensure that the results of the studies were acted upon. In sum, there was little
capacity building as a result of the technical assistance program. The studies were completed much behind
the original schedule, leaving only a limited time for implementation before loan closing.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost was estimated at $384 million at appraisal, of which the Bank financed portion was
$150 million. However, due to restructuring, the actual project cost was $337 million, of which $147.6



                                                      - 14 -

million was financed by IBRD. Of this, US$57.1 million was for Shenyang, US$44.3 million for Fushun
(including technical assistance and the front-end fee), and US$46.2 million for Anshan. The total project
cost was reduced due to lower resettlement costs since Shenyang had transferred major road construction
projects into road maintenance which did not need major resettlements.

Significant changes were a reduction in the road infrastructure (from $291 million to $195 million), and
public transport component (from $24.5 million to $12.9 million), and an increase in the road maintenance
component from $31 million to $95 million. The traffic management component increased slightly from
$28 million to $29 million, and the technical assistance program was reduced from $6.5 million to
approximately $4 million.

The total disbursed under civil works is $120 million for equipment, $22 million, for consulting services $4
million, and $1.5 million for the front-end fee. About $3 million was cancelled from the loan amount which
mainly came from the Shenyang component. There was one loan extension to cover the Yong'an Bridge.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability is rated moderately likely. As the single rating given to the whole project does not cover
specific project components, their sustainability is discussed below:

The sustainability of the physical improvements is rated as likely, and the project's investment has proved
to be financially or economically viable. The capacity and efficiency gains through road construction and
rehabilitation are definitely sustainable primarily because of the Government's historical attachment to road
infrastructure development. The political value attributed to a good road network is very high in China. In
all three cities, a stronger foundation both with regard to capacity and budget has been established for road
maintenance. Therefore, economic and financial sustainability is also likely as indicated by decreased
subsidy in PT and increased road maintenance budget.

The success of the PT reform particularly in Shenyang improves the sustainability of both public transport
and the overall project tremendously. Although, the project did nothing directly to facilitate or support the
PT reform, the Bank helped the cities to think about private provision of public transport services much
more creatively which was subsequently implemented.

However, sustainability of the traffic management component, particularly the measures focused on NMV
improvements is considered unlikely, unless there is a reversal of previous thinking in response to the recent
Vice Ministerial statements. Politicians and decision makers still do not recognize the extent of travel by
                                 3/


these modes, or the contribution that these modes can make to sustainable transport. So, in all three cities,
measures to improve conditions for pedestrians and cyclists still fell short of achieving the overall
objectives ­ road space still remained primarily designed to serve motorists with inadequate facilities for
pedestrians and cyclists. These failures to protect and support walking and cycling as means of transport
have the potential to jeopardize the social and environmental sustainability of the project, despite the
progress made with public transport reform and motor vehicle emission control.
____________________________________

3/   The Ministry of Construction announced in June 2006 that any bike lanes that have been narrowed or
     destroyed to make way for cars to recent years must be returned to their original glory. This followed orders
     that all civil servants should cycle to work or take public transport to reduce the smog that chokes most streets.




                                                          - 15 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The investments under the project will be managed, operated, and maintained by the agencies that
commissioned their design and construction, and which participated in the project implementation. All the
road sections that were subject to road maintenance or rehabilitation have been opened to traffic, their
performance has been assessed as adequate, and the quality has been generally satisfactory. The equipment
purchased has been tested, installed, and has been functioning to the levels of services specified.

The budgetary allocations for road maintenance have stabilized in all three cities and it is highly likely that
these levels will continue to preserve adequately the assets financed with loan proceeds. However, priority
attention should be given to coordinate with the different agencies that have received equipment and
monitor that these are properly operated, maintained, and timely replaced to ensure its continuous
operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance at the project identification, preparation and appraisal is rated moderately
satisfactory.

The Bank team made a considerable effort to study the sector and prepare the Project in its investment and
policy dimensions with the limitations identified in Section 3.5. The Bank also obtained Grant funding to
assist the Borrower with project preparation. Preparation was undertaken by a core team with considerable
experience in China. The project focused on the sector's highest priorities including introducing modern
traffic management concepts, public transport enterprise reform, road safety and public transport priority.
The team did creditable technical analyses as regards the make-up of the investment plan. There was no
upfront reason to suspect the lack of commitment on the part of Shenyang city. The project complied with
all relevant safeguard policies.

Perhaps the greatest value added of the Bank to the project was the dialogue during preparation which
engendered an environment supportive of the ongoing reform. On the public transport component, these
were still early days of the reform, and the Bank advance the thinking on private provision of public
transport services, with regard to change of ownership, more diverse operating practices which were
subsequently implemented. Therefore these early discussions the Bank had with the cities elevated the
dialogue on the urban transport sector and contributed to the overall efficiency gain in the sector.

However, the Bank over-estimated the commitment of the borrower to the traffic management component.
In China, the government's commitment to preserving road space for NMVs is low. If anything, events in
the project clearly indicated that the government has a overriding objective of providing road space to MVs
rather than to NMVs. There was also a disconnect between the indicators and the objectives (also
discussed in Section 3.5).

The composition of the task teams during preparation and appraisal were adequate and balanced and
reflected a depth of experience of China and urban transport. There were three Bank Task Team Leaders
during preparation.




                                                    - 16 -

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance during supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory. On the positive side,
during restructuring, the task team demonstrated flexibility and responsiveness in approving the needed
modifications. There were 12 supervision missions led by task managers that were all urban transport
specialists and the team provided constructive advice to the problems such as design of bus lanes and
traffic management that plagued the project with follow-up agreed actions. In addition to task manager
visits, local Bank staff in Beijing provided continuous support on procurement, disbursement, financial
management and operations. All loan covenants were complied with.

However, towards the end of the project, (after September 2002) supervision became infrequent due to the
outbreak of SARS, (which prevented a subsequent mission until August 2003) and the fact that majority of
the investment was complete. The capacity building TA in particular was not supervised well. There is
limited documentation on the progress of this component and not enough guidance and input from the Bank
team. The road maintenance component could have produced better outputs through closer supervision.
Project status reports did not give realistic and consistent performance ratings throughout implementation
particularly for the traffic management and the technical assistance components.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

It was the first urban transport project financed by the World Bank for both province and three cities
although LUCPRO had managed two provincial urban development projects before this urban transport
project. Local staff had limited technical and managerial experience in developing comprehensive urban
transport projects. Responsibilities among LUCPRO, city PMOs, and the consultant were not very clear,
and coordination among agencies for different components was not very smooth at beginning. The
preparation time was long and there was a lack of commitment to the PDOs, exacerbated by frequent
changes in leadership. The agenda was driven primarily by foreign consultants, particularly on public
transport and traffic management.

On the positive side, the borrower committed high levels of human and financial resources which had been
dedicated to the project since its inception as an idea, ten years before the start of the project. In each
project city, a Project Leading Group had been established. These groups were responsible for the
coordination of project planning activities and implementation in their respective jurisdictions and were
chaired by the vice-mayors in charge of the urban construction activities. In sum, the government's
performance during preparation is rated as moderately satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government's implementation performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. On the positive side,
the Provincial and local governments ensured that the Project stayed largely on track (apart from the issues
in Shenyang discussed earlier). Despite significant complexity, several implementing agencies and multiple
cities, the project was completed largely on schedule and as appraised (given the caveats discussed



                                                     - 17 -

already). However, due to the frequent changes of the decision makers during the course of
implementation, the leaders did not fully understand and support the Project's Development Objectives.
This caused the re-appraisal for the Shenyang component right after the project's effectiveness. There were
implementation difficulties for the traffic management component. Anshan's primary interest was in the
roads component; Fushun did show interest in traffic management as demonstrated by pilot schemes the
city implemented prior to the project; Shenyang's commitment to the project objectives was marginal, as
demonstrated by the restructuring that took place almost immediately after the project began.

In addition, project monitoring was weak. The authenticity of the data provided as a part of the monitoring
index could not be verified, and it is clear that data collection could have been improved.

The technical assistance component could have performed better with closer supervision. The outputs of
the studies were not focused enough on what the borrowers believed were their real needs.

It is clear that the Bank and the cities had a very different interpretation of rationalization of road space as
well as road maintenance. None of the cities really understood how important it was to manage existing
road space. This in turn seems to underline the problems throughout the project with the traffic
management component and to some extent with the road maintenance component.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agencies is rated moderately satisfactory. On the positive side, a
full time project office was established at Provincial level (LUCRPO) which had experience in previous
Bank projects. Project offices were also established in each of the three cities with adequate staffing.
During reallocation LUCRPO was able to move project resources between cities and subcomponents to
meet the PDO but taking account of changed priorities. Financial management and reporting was
satisfactory.

On the negative side, the implementing agency LUCRPO lacked the capacity to further policy dialogue
with the Leading Group. The role that they could have played was restricted by the limited responsibilities
accorded them. LUCRPO had limited control over the cities, but they could have taken more proactive
steps to improve project performance.

The PMO at Anshan was efficient, and implementation was completed satisfactorily. The Fushun PMO
was enthusiastic, and acted responsibly when there was a potential problem with counterpart funds in
suspending new procurement until the matter was resolved. However, it sometimes had difficulty
influencing and getting adequate access to city political leadership. The Shenyang PMO was at a
disadvantage by having too many changes in political leadership which led to lack of continuity in support
of the project, and some awkward problems of transparency with the Bank, especially in the later stages of
preparation when the actual intention of the city to build the East-West highway was not disclosed to the
Bank.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall borrower's performance is rated moderately satisfactory.




                                                       - 18 -

8. Lessons Learned


A transport strategy endorsed by the city is essential to provide a framework for investments. A
central weakness of the project was the lack of a transport strategy which was endorsed by the city and
made public. Although a project involves discrete investment components, it needs to be supported by a
larger goal based on an integrated set of measures designed to address key issues over a broad horizon to
improve transport. This reduces the risk of having to reappraise the project if the agreed upon component is
dropped during the course of the project.

Political risk is not easy to assess or guard against. The decision by the leadership in Shenyang to
construct a road that was not discussed during project preparation was totally unexpected. The Bank team
had attempted to ensure that they were aware of the views and commitment of the leadership through
frequent meetings. More understandable but equally unacceptable were the different levels of acceptance
of certain subcomponents shown by successive city leaders, which delayed some and resulted in the scaling
down of others. A strategy for each city endorsed outside the project preparation process would have
reduced the risk. But all these changes occurred despite the requirements of the Loan Agreement which are
legally binding on the cities concerned. This suggests such risks cannot be completely mitigated.

Sensitization of key decision makers is crucial for successful implementation of urban transport
innovations. In this project - as compared with similar projects in China, the mayors were the main driving
forces. Differences in the understanding of issues between the Bank and local leaders was in large part
responsible for the problems faced by technical staff in implementing the traffic management and public
transport components; there are fundamental disconnects in vision between the appraised activities related
to junction channelization and bus lanes on one hand, and the reductions of road space for pedestrians and
cyclists sought by leaders on the other. While the technical staff was at least sympathetic to, and often very
supportive of Bank suggestions, they were constrained by the attitude of local leaders. Urban transport is
visible and commands significant attention from municipal leadership; to facilitate change in this sector, it
is critical to sensitize political decision-makers to the relevant issues through policy-dialogue, taregeted
workshops and seminars, and study tours.

Foreign consultants should be selected for tasks for which the Borrower recognizes a clear value
added. The role of foreign consultant in this project was extremely high in the project from preparation,
right through implementation. In China, there is limited acceptance of foreign consultants, and often there
is no forum to present the findings or recommendations of a foreign consultant. The use of foreign
consultants in China should be done judiciously and perhaps limited to an advisory role to local institutions.
It would perhaps have been better to use local firms (where the basic skills are available) as the lead,
supported by first class international experts. This could have improved the communication between
consultant and the borrower, and most likely contributed to a better understanding of the technical and
policy issues, both of which were likely to result in stronger local ownership of the recommendations and
proposals.




                                                       - 19 -

Traffic management concepts require a process that should involve testing and adaptation before it
can be fully implemented or expanded. When LUTP was implemented, international traffic management
concepts were just being introduced in China and had been included in the previous two Bank projects in
Shanghai and Guangzhou. Traffic management was considered to be an essential low cost first step in
improving traffic conditions, with protection of NMV and improvement of conditions for pedestrians as
core elements. There was optimism that these concepts would be accepted. With hindsight, these
subcomponents should have been more selective, started with small scale, used experimentation and
adaptable conditionality, with much more effort put into building local capacity. New ideas and scheme
designs should have been tested in a demonstration for a sufficient amount of time to assess political and
public acceptance, and for local staff to gain experience before expanding into a full program. The absence
of any guidance from central government such as the recent National Road Safety Law (issued January 1,
2005) also meant that the success of any TM program in China would have been limited.

There is an inherent priority given to road construction and improvement that hinders the
development of public transport. There are clear indications that most cities in China give more priority
to road construction and improvement to accommodate the needs of motorized vehicles, instead of focusing
on the needs of public transport. For instance, the bus maintenance facility was cancelled from the project
due to the difficulties in getting the land acquisition approved by the city, and the bus priority lanes were
not properly supported. Yet another more conclusive indication is that final allocation of project funds for
road maintenance was tripled, while the final funding for public transport was only half of the original
funds allocated. A new approach to designing roads that better mesh with public transport is essential, so
that if the pubic transport dialogue stalls, the roads component can be used in the future for public
transport when the government is ready to think about public transport more broadly.

Knowledge transfer and institutional development is a long process. The project (and the loan
covenants) set some relatively short term targets for getting recommendations from the TA studies
approved and implemented. No time allowance appears to have been given for the political discussion and
decision making that would need to take place, or for the inherent inertia in embracing new ideas, or the
cultural and organizational changes that would be required. All this takes time, but as the Borrower has
indicated, the new concepts have now been accepted, some 2 -3 years after the studies ended.




                                                      - 20 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

                   Borrower's Contribution to Implementation Completion Report

1        Introduction

1.1      Background.
Liaoning Province located in the Northeast of China, has an area of 147,500 km2, and houses some of the
most important raw material sources for the production of iron and steel, coal, power, mechanic, and
petro-chemical industries. The urban population in Liaoning Province is 55% of the total, and there are
many large cities with high urban densities, rapid economic growth, and high urbanization rates, compared
with other cities in China.

The population for Shenyang, Anshan, and Fushun was 6.7 million, 3.4 million and 2.3 million; and the
GNP 77.2 billion, 39.5 billion and 16.8 billion, respectively. Shenyang, Anshan, and Fushun are in the 4th,
18th and 19th position among the 20 largest cities in China. Shenyang is the capital of Liaoning Province
and it is not only the political, economic, and cultural center for Liaoning; but also, the largest transport
hub in Northeast China.

Lying in the mid-south of the province, Anshan has four districts (Tiedong, Tiexi, Lishan, and Qianshan).
The total area of Anshan City is 9,251 km2, of which the central urban area is 114.85 km2.Anshan houses
the largest national iron and steel company (Angang) which relies on the iron ore-mining source in the east
of the city. There are other industries such as textile, chemical, building materials, electronics, machinery,
metallurgy and pharmacy.

Fushun, located in eastern mountainous area of Liaoning Province has four districts (Xinfu, Dongzhou,
Wanhua and Shuncheng) and three counties (Fushun, Qingyuan and Xinbin) in its jurisdiction, with a total
area of 10,816 km2. The total urban population is 1.4 million.

Most of the major issues facing the urban transport sector in China stem from increasing motorization,
rapid urbanization, inefficient public transport, and poorly coordinated institutional arrangements for
managing urban traffic. The Liaoning Provincial Government decided to apply for a World Bank Loan
because the urban transport problem limited the economic development of Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun.
Approval from the Bank Board was obtained on March 30, 1999, the loan agreement signed on July 27,
1999, and became effective on December 28, 1999. The loan was planned to be closed on December 31,
2004; however, it was extended until December 31, 2005. The construction period is therefore seven years
from 1999 until 2005.

1.2      Project Development Objective.
The objective of the project was to improve urban transport system productivity so as to facilitate economic
and social development within the project cities of Shenyang, Anshan, and Fushun. A set of key
performance indicators was agreed upon to measure the achievement of the project objective.




                                                      - 21 -

1.3      Project Components.
The project involves three project cities: Shenyang, Anshan, and Fushun; and it includes five components:
public transport, traffic management, road infrastructure, road maintenance, and technical assistance.

1.3.1    Shenyang ­ The project has augmented the existing urban road network through the construction
of additional capacity in the main east-west corridors, provided additional crossings of the railway lines
which divide the city, improved the quality of road maintenance and traffic management, improved the
quality of public transport services through the provision of exclusive bus lanes, and strengthen local
capacity for the management of urban transport operational and services through studies, technical
assistance and training.
·        Public Transport: The project provided bus priority facilities including an exclusive center-lane
bus-way to connect two railway stations as to increase bus driving speed.
·        Traffic Management: The project financed traffic management improvement for 25 local roads.
These improvements include channelization of intersections, road widening, an area traffic control system,
traffic signs and markings, the development of pedestrian facilities and the provision of 9.0 km of NMV
exclusive roads.
·        Road Infrastructure: Three major corridors were developed under the project, including the
construction of Beiyi Road of 6 km, reconstruction of east-west roads to form a contiguous corridor, the
construction of the Gonghe Railway overpass and the Gonghe Interchange, and the construction of
Changjian Underpass. The third corridor is Pangjiang Street, a four-lane section of the First Ring Road,
which has been widened to a six-lane standard of 2 km in length.
·        Road Maintenance: The project financed re-surfacing and reconstruction of 67 local roads of 76
km in total length, and purchased road maintenance equipment.

1.3.2    Fushun ­ The project has strengthened the urban transport network through the construction of the
Hunhennan Corridor (a new major east-west road corridor), the provision of bus priority facilities and
NMV exclusive roads, supported bus maintenance and road maintenance, the provision of improved traffic
management facilities, and strengthen the local capacity for the management of urban transport operations
and services through studies, technical assistance and training.
·        Public Transport: The project financed the construction of civil works of the bus depot buildings
of 3,300 m2. In addition, the project has developed 6.7 km of exclusive bus priority facilities on existing
and improved roads.
·        Traffic Management: The project financed improved traffic management facilities along two
major (Dandong and Xincheng Roads) corridors and forty-two junctions will be included in a coordinated
traffic control system.
·        Road Infrastructure: The project constructed three Hunhenan expressways along the south bank
of the Hun River, and a parallel local service road, totaling 32.1 km. The expressway provided access for
motor vehicles only, and its construction will allow the improvement of the parallel Hunhenan Road as an
arterial road for mixed traffic. The project also provided access from the Hunhenan corridor to several
major development zones of the city, including two economic development zones, two industrial areas, the
railway station, and the new Wangxin city center area. The project also financed the Wanxin Bridge and
interchange to service a resettlement area on the north side of the river.
·        Road Maintenance: The project financed the reconstruction and paving of 15.5 km of roadway
and finance modern road maintenance equipment.

1.3.3    Anshan ­ The project financed the reconstruction of the main north-south corridor and the
construction of an interchange between the primary north-south (Jianguo) and east-west (Yongchang Jie to
Huangang Road) corridors. The project provided funds to upgrade an existing tram exclusive way, bus



                                                     - 22 -

priority facilities, and NMV exclusive roads. The project also financed traffic management improvements,
road maintenance works and technical assistance, including studies and training to strengthen the
institutions to manage and operate urban transport services more effectively.
·        Public Transport: The project financed works which have provided 6.2 km of tramway and 5.4
km of bus-way. In addition, the project also included a bus transfer station which has served 17 bus routes
with an area of 5,755 m2.
·        Traffic Management: The project financed the channelization of eight junctions, developed 3.97
km of NMV exclusive roads, and financed off-street parking facilities of 23,977 m2. Also, the project
provided traffic signals equipment, signs and marking, and specialized management vehicles.
·        Road Infrastructure: The project constructed nine facilities, including improvements to the main
north-south (Jianguo) corridor in the city, the Wuiyi interchange, and the Shahe Bridge (which provided an
improved truck route in the north of the city) totaling about 20.7 km.
·        Road Maintenance: The project has reconstructed Hongqi Road and other seven roads totaling
20.9 km, sidewalks along six roads, and purchased some maintenance equipment.

1.3.4    Institutional Strengthening and Technical Assistance. This sub-component has supported the
strengthening of selected sector institutions in the three cities through the provision of appropriate training,
office equipment and consulting services to complete some studies and to review the engineering designs.
·        Public Transport: The project financed the studies for a bus system reform and bus way designs.
The study reviewed the experiences in other cities in China and other cities around the world, as an input
for the development of plans for drafting future policies and regulations in the project cities.
·        Traffic Management: The project has financed additional design studies in the area of control
systems, the development of parking policies, and analysis of traffic accidents.
·        Road Maintenance: Road maintenance studies were prepared to assist municipalities establishing
formal road maintenance systems, and improve staff performance through domestic and international
training.
·        Motor Vehicles Emissions Control Strategy: The project financed the preparation of a strategy
study and action plans to assist the municipalities in identifying and implementing appropriate measures to
protect the environment.
·        Project Management: Consulting services were contracted to assist with the preparation of bid
documentation, provide construction supervision, and to carry out training activities to improve the quality
of project supervision.

1.4      Project Costs and Loan.
Total project costs were US$ 337.95 million. Total project loan valued at US$ 147.6 million, of which,
US$57.1 million are for Shenyang, US$46.16 are for Anshan, and US$44.34 are for Fushun. Total loan
terms are 20 years including 5 years of grace. Loan interests (current year) is 2.73% (floating),
commitment fee is 0.75%, front-end fee is 1%.

2        Project Implementation

2.1      Implementation Agencies.
A leading group in Liaoning was established to provide guidance and take decisions during the
implementation of the World Bank financed project. This group was headed by the Deputy Governor
responsible for urban construction sector of the province, and included responsible officials from Liaoning
DRC, Liaoning Provincial Department of Finance, Liaoning Provincial Department of Construction,
Liaoning EPB, Liaoning Provincial Department of Hydro-power, and Liaoning Provincial Department of
Audit, also of Deputy Mayors of involved municipalities.



                                                      - 23 -

2.2      Bidding and Procurement.
Bidding and procurement have been executed in full comply with "Procurement Guidelines for World Bank
Financed Project", "Model Bidding Documents" issued by MOF, "Temporary Regulations of Bidding in
Construction Sector" issued by MOC, and PAD. In total 64 bids were procured and 96 contracts were
signed, including 25 bids (16 ICB and 9 NCB) and 40 contracts for Shenyang; 21 bids (8 ICB and 13
NCB) and 29 contracts for Fushun; and 18 bids (10 ICB and 8 NCB) and 27 contracts for Anshan.

Over 100 enterprises and firms participated in the bidding as to maintain the competitiveness, fairness and
reasonableness, including USA, Germany, Japan, Australia, Spain, Korea, Hong Kong and China. A
reviewing system of various levels of municipal, provincial, national and the World Bank was strictly
applied during the bidding process to have successful procurement implementation. Through competitive
bidding, advanced road maintenance equipment (made in Germany and Japan) was purchased for the three
project cities. Meanwhile, some traffic management equipment was also purchased in Shenyang and
Fushun, including medium-sized computer for the traffic control center, video-wall monitoring equipment,
and signal controllers. This equipment enhanced the production capability, improved the quality, and
increased the level of monitoring and management. In addition, the construction period for civil works and
project costs were reduced, and the quality improved.

2.3      Construction Supervision and Quality Control.
A supervision agency has been established for this project. A United States consulting firm was assigned to
be the advisor for the supervision. Specific trainings were conducted, following FIDIC, for engineers and
resident engineers in each municipality. Engineer certificates were also issued by international consultants
after the training. All engineers performed their duties with these certificates. The project supervision and
quality control was well integrated. The supervision and disbursement procedures were also developed to
apply a full submission and reporting system. A complete set of forms were designed. All these reports and
forms were submitted to engineers for review on a monthly basis. A quarterly progress report was also
developed by the international supervision consultants and submitted to the World Bank. A data-based
management procedure was applied during the construction supervision. In addition, the quality control
was conducted first by the contractor, and then by the employer's supervision consulting firm and quality
control station.

2.4      Disbursement, Audit and Contract Management.

2.4.1    Disbursement.
Following the disbursement methods developed by Liaoning Provincial Department of Finance, the
disbursement activities fell into three categories of withdraw application, direct disbursement, and credit
disbursement. A unified disbursement application was prepared by each municipality based on the
contractor's applications. These disbursements were made by the special account at Liaoning Provincial
Department of Finance, after being reviewed by each municipal finance bureau. All related documents and
correspondences are filed at LUCRPO. The value at the special account at Liaoning Provincial
Department of Finance was US$10 million.

2.4.2    Auditing.
Liaoning Provincial Department of Audit was responsible for overall auditing of the project. Two audits
were conducted for each component at the beginning and at the end of each year, including progress of the
project cost and loan proceeds. A yearly audit report was submitted to the World Bank by the end of each
year. All involved officials followed strictly their professional morality and fought against corruption.




                                                      - 24 -

2.4.3    Contract Management.
The original contract documents were kept at city PMO and by successful bidders and submitted to the
World Bank. Copies are kept by LUCRPO and Liaoning Provincial Department of Finance. Special
officials were assigned for contract management. All variations were reviewed through strict reviewing
process. At the completion, all contract documents and technical materials were registered by Urban
Construction File Office.

2.5      Technical Assistance, Specific Studies, and Training

2.5.1    Specific Studies. The project supported the following on-going reforms:

·        Sector Management. Inadequate coordination and management is one of the major challenges
facing all Chinese cities. In order to address this problem, a transport management committee was
established in all three cities to strengthen policy making within the sector. These committees were made up
of officials representing all key sector agencies. They have high-level authority to coordinate all aspects of
urban transport management, including the development, approval, review, and monitoring of urban
transport management policies.

·        Public Transport Reform. Public transport reform programs were initiated in each city in the
early 1990s. Each city seeks to maintain and attract public transport riders through improved services
while reducing the need for public subsidies. The major strategies to achieve these goals included
improving operating efficiencies and the introduction of private participation in the sector.

·        Traffic Management, Enforcement, and Parking Management Plans. In the past, the building
of new roads has always been the first priority of most municipal governments in China. Increasing the
efficiency of existing roads has not been given sufficient priority. During project preparation, both the
provincial and municipal governments recognized the importance of the traffic management improvements.

·        Institutional Strengthening for Road Maintenance. Due to inadequate funding and
under-management of road maintenance, there was no systematic routine or periodic maintenance of roads
in the project cities. This has resulted in a large backlog of maintenance needs. City officials now recognize
the need to implement reforms including raising maintenance budgets to sustainable levels, staff reductions,
and gradual transformation of city maintenance crews to contracting units.

·        Environmental Emissions Strategy. The three project cities recognize that rapid growth in motor
vehicles fleet will gradually cancel out the benefits of the project. The cities therefore recognize the need to
implement controls on vehicle emissions. The proposal to develop a Motor Vehicles Emissions Control
Strategy (MVECS) for Liaoning took advantage of both international experience and the experience of
other cities in China. The program included: implementation of an unleaded fuel program, establishment of
a vehicle Inspection and Maintenance (I/M) system, establishment of a Vehicle Emission Research Center,
introduction of catalytic converters, development of alternative fuel technologies, and expansion of the
automated monitoring network to monitor air pollution.




                                                       - 25 -

A city-level road safety management committee has been established in all cities following "National Road
Safety Law" issued on January 1, 2005. The study reports were completed and submitted to related project
cities for recommendations and suggestions for their government, and were also submitted to the World
Bank. Obviously, there are great challenges in the transition from a planned to a market economy which
are subject to the political and economic environment in China. Sector and organizational reforms in the
project could not be fully completed under this project.

2.5.2    Training.
As to have a successful implementation of the project and improve sector management level and learn
advanced management skills abroad, the study tours with over 100 staff were conducted to USA, UK,
France, Australia, Thailand, Singapore and Hong Kong. Specific local trainings were also conducted and
local staff were well trained which have build a good basis for the successful implementation of the project
as the sector development. A local team with excellent management and technical skills has been
established.

2.6      Traffic Management and Safety.
A traffic management committee was established in each municipality. During the construction period,
effective measures were taken to improve traffic safety and manage traffic circulation, including traffic
flow control, half-lanes closing, full road closing, submission of travel permits, and police guiding at site.

During operational period, effective measures have also been taken to strengthen traffic awareness through
intensive trainings, including study tours by police and designers to HK and Guangzhou to study traffic
management, bus way management, channelization polite, etc. Training by international consultants was
also conducted. Provisions were also installed under the project including traffic signs and markings,
signals, separations, junction channelization, bus way, and one-way.

2.7      Public Transport Improvement.
Provisions have been installed for public transport improvement, including bus stop and bus lanes. The
public transport company moved towards gradually reducing government subsidies.

2.8      Strengthening of Road Maintenance.
All involved cities increased their road maintenance investment. They purchased road maintenance
equipment thus improved their efficiency. The overall design quality was also improved. Road
maintenance management has been strengthened and the approaches for road maintenance justification
improved.

2.9      Land Acquisition and Resettlement.
Land acquisition and resettlement were carried out by city PMO and city/district resettlement offices. He
Hai University was responsible for external monitoring of the resettlement. Following national, provincial,
municipal and World Bank policies, a policy framework was established for the project. Household surveys
and public participation were conducted. Resettlement plans were also prepared and implemented. A post
evaluation of the RAP was conducted.

2.10     Environmental Impact.
The following three independent environmental agencies were assigned to carry out the EIA work:
Shenyang Academy of Environmental Science, Anshan Metallurgical Institute, and Fushun Academy of
Environmental Science. Following the EMP, training seminars were organized for contractors. A complain
call system was installed and adequately handled. Environmental monitoring was carried out. Mitigation
measures were taken and enforced. Quarterly and yearly environmental monitoring reports were developed.


                                                      - 26 -

3       Outputs, Benefits, and Evaluation

3.1     Outputs.

Shenyang: Major works completed include roads of 3.15 million m2, sidewalks of 960,000 m2, bridges of
140,000 m2, sewers of 7.4 km, replacement of street lights of 5,427, and landscaping of 5.1 hectare.
Through the implementation of the project, the urban traffic capacity has been improved to facility the
social and economic development of Shenyang.

Fushun: Major works completed include new roads of 15 km/745,000 m2 and reconstructed roads of 59
km/1.1817 million m2, sewers of 49 km, replacement of street lights of 4,024, separations of 10,931 m,
bus bay of 56, signs of 1,155, signals of 44, landscaping of 162,000 m2 and construction of flood dam of
10,815 m. Through the implementation of the project, the traffic condition and surroundings have been
improved to have established the major road network and to facility the social and economic development in
Fushun.

Anshan: Major works completed include roads of 1.5338 million m2, sidewalks of 696,500 m2, bridges
of 96,200 m2, sewers of 18,500 m, replacement of street lights of 2,418, landscaping of 12 hectare, and off
street parking lot of 29,732 m2. Through project implementation the urban traffic capacity has been
improved to facility the social and economic development of Anshan.

3.2     Social and Economic Benefits.

3.2.1   Social Benefits.

Shenyang: With the open and reform policies and through five year implementation of the LUTP, the
urban environment has been greatly improved, the economic development has increased, economic
operation has been improving and living condition have also been improved.
·       Economies: GDP reached RMB 190.07 billion with per capita of RMB 27,487;
·       Comprehensive financial strength: Local budgetary revenues reached RMB 10.74 billion;
·       Industrial economic benefits: Sales revenues reached RMB 141.64 billion for all enterprises with
certain sizes with profits valued RMB 3.66 billion and comprehensive benefit indexes numbered 129.91%;
·       Bidding for investment: Direct foreign investment numbered US$ 2.423 billion; and
·       Resident's life condition: Per capita expendable income reached RMB 8,924 for urban residents
and net income reached RMB 4,347 for rural residents.

Fushun: With the open and reform policies and through five year implementation of the LUTP, the urban
environment has been greatly improved, the economic development has been increased, and living
conditions have also been improved.
·       Economies: GDP reached RMB 37.5 billion with per capita of RMB 16,617;
·       Comprehensive financial strength: Local budgetary revenues reached RMB 1.76 billion and
completed tax numbered RMB 4.86 billion;
·       Industrial economic benefits: Production output value reached RMB 58.19 billion for all
enterprises with certain sizes;
·       Bidding for investment: Direct foreign investment numbered US$ 106.68 million and export of
US$ 410 million which were 63.6% higher than last year and created a new history; and



                                                    - 27 -

·         Resident's life condition: Per capita expendable income reached RMB 7,008 for urban residents.

Anshan: With the open and reform policies and through five year implementation of the LUTP, the urban
environment has been greatly improved, the economic development has increased, economic operation has
been improving and living condition have also been improved.
·         Economies: GDP reached RMB 100.6 billion with per capita of US$ 3,500 and ranked the 50
strength city in China for sector comprehensive economic strength;
·         Comprehensive financial strength: Sector budgetary revenues reached RMB 10.52 billion and
local budgetary revenues reached RMB 4.02 billion;
·         Anshan Iron and Steel Corporation created a new history in their business operation: Production
yield for iron, steel and steel products reached respectively 11.57 million T, 11.33 million T and 10.6
million T with sales revenues of RMB 47 billion and paid tax of RMB 5.56 billion, ranked No. 8 in the
World's iron and steel industry;
·         Industrial economic benefits: Sales revenues reached RMB 83.9 billion for all enterprises with
certain sizes with profits valued RMB 10.6 billion and comprehensive benefit indexes numbered 218%;
·         Bidding for investment: Direct foreign investment numbered US$ 2.02 billion, introduced
investment of US$2.8 billion and export of US$1 billion; and
·         Resident's life condition: Per capita expendable income reached RMB 8,262 for urban residents
and net income reached RMB 4,253 for rural residents.

3.2.2     Economic Benefits.
·         Shenyang Municipal Engineering Design Institute conducted the evaluation for Shenyang
component and concluded the following: years of return: 11 years; IERR: 9.1%, cost and benefits ratio:
1.33 and NPV: 22,556.5
·         Beijing Municipal Engineering Design Institute conducted the evaluation for Anshan component
and concluded the following: years of return: 11 years; IERR: 20.55%, cost and benefits ratio: 2.03 and
NPV: 61,870.04.
·         Fushun Municipal Engineering Design Institute conducted the evaluation for Fushun component
and concluded the following: years of return: 7.37 years; IERR: 28.26%, cost and benefits ratio: 1.14 and
NPV: 85,157.

3.3       Evaluation of Project Objectives and Performance Indicators.

3.3.1     Evaluation of Project Objectives.
Generally speaking, LUTP is a successful project and the achievements are satisfactory. The project
objectives have been met through the implementation, including the strengthening of traffic productivities;
facilitating of social and economic development in Shenyang; improvement of bottlenecks, saving of travel
costs and time; improvement of urban road networks; improvement of RM efficiencies; maintaining of
environmental sustainable development; development and implementation of EAP; development of
monitoring procedures; development of long-term MVECS strategy; increasing of operational efficiencies
and road safety; reduction of traffic accidents last year; increasing of bus service level and efficiencies; and
minimization of government subsidies.

3.3.2     Performance Indicators.
The performance indicators were reasonably designed and able to implement and measure.




                                                     - 28 -

3.4     Evaluation of Project Loan Agreement and Consistencies.
After the loan was signed, all involved agencies were able to perform their obligations, complied with the
conditions, paid in a timely manner the loan interests, and commitment fee. All the foreign currency was
spent in the project investments and technical assistance to maximize the project financing sources.

3.5     Project Adjustment and the Causes.
Some revisions have been made to Shenyang component as compared with the original PIP. The proposed
bus depot and Dadong bus terminal in Shenyang component were dropped off. The Lianhe Road
sub-component was changed from an original RI category into a bus way. Beiyi Road was extended from
Baogong Street to Zhonggong Street. Some revisions have also been made to RM components due to
planning purposes. There were no changes to the Anshan components. The Wanxin bridge sub-component
was dropped off, and the Yongan Bridge sub-component included in Fushun component.

3.6     Evaluation of Bidding and Procurement, and Construction Supervision.

3.6.1   Bidding and Procurement.
Project packaging were reasonably designed and implemented in line with the PIP. The China Technology
International Tendering Co. (CTIT) was assigned by LUCRPO and the three project cities as a
procurement agent. CTIT was responsible for the development of the commercial part of the bidding
document. Due to factors regarding climatic conditions in northern part of China, traffic circulation plan
and preparation works, CTIT has assigned an excellent team working with us to have had a successful
implementation of the bidding and procurement for the project.

3.6.2   Construction Supervision.
Qualified construction supervision companies were selected through short-listing approaches. The qualified
experts were invited to work with local engineers to undertake the construction supervision to meet the
goals for construction schedules, quality control and construction deadlines following FIDIC.

3.7     Disbursement and Contract Management.
All statements or disbursement applications were compiled and summarized by city PMO and then
submitted to municipal finance bureaus for review. LUCRPO then submitted all statements to Provincial
Finance Bureau that processed disbursements within five working days following "Notice of Regulations
for LUTP" issued by Liaoning Finance Bureau.

Three areas related to contract management were followed, including contract signing, enforcement during
implementation, and filing system management. In addition, other areas related to contract variations,
supplementary agreements, memo and claims were also strictly controlled to assure the execution of the
contract signed.

3.8     Assessment of Project's Loan and Repayment Ability.
The repayment plans for the three project cities have been carried out as agreed. The main repayment
resources are from urban construction fees, land transfer fees and urban construction administrative fees.
All the project cities are able to repay the loans in accordance with the repayment plans based on the
financial revenue in each city.

3.9     Technical Assistance and Training.
The Technical Assistance (TA) and training for the project were essential for a smooth implementation of
the Liaoning Urban Transport Project (LUTP). Before the LUTP started, the project staff had less
knowledge about international assistance, integrated project coordination, motorized road design and


                                                      - 29 -

comprehensive urban management. The domestic and overseas training contributed to achieve these
objectives. Experienced international and domestic specialists were invited to develop ICB and NCB
bidding documents to comply with the World Bank guidelines. The operation capabilities and service
quality for public transport were improved, the abilities for traffic management and crossings enhanced,
and the management levels of the project staff raised.

Based on the five specific topics chosen the following tasks were completed: the municipal facility
management department developed a road maintenance strategic plan, the EPBs developed the motor
vehicle emission control strategies in order to make sure a sustainable development, the Bus Groups
developed a public transport reform scheme to accelerate the system reform and privatization of bus
companies and commercialization, the Traffic Police Brigade Traffic Research Institute developed the
parking management regulations and policies and efficient methods and control measures for road accident
analysis. The results of these specific topics pushed the sustainable development of traffic management in
all project cities.

3.10     Assessment for International Consultants.
All the project management officers have received lots of benefits based on the guidance from the
international consultants. The international specialists brought excellent concepts on the integrated
combination between the infrastructures and future urban development, the design alternative selections,
the importance of high quality of contractors and construction supervision teams, and quality control, cost
control and time control. The international specialists played very important roles on the successful
preparation and the construction supervision for the LUTP.

3.11     Assessment for Environment and Resettlement.

3.11.1 Assessment for Environment.
Throughout project implementation, several measures were taken to strengthen the environmental
management capacities during construction and operation, primarily to reduce the pollution indexes from
projects in the surrounding environment, to meet the environmental protection requirements from the World
Bank, and to take the environment protection measures requested by the Project Environment Action Plan
(EAP).

3.11.2 Assessment on Resettlement.
The compensation principles in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for this Project have been properly
carried out. There is little difference between the scope of the original RAP and the one implemented.
However, because the construction period of this Project lasted for quite a long time, the new resettlement
policies were developed at national level and city levels, and the compensation standards and relocation
plans for the new resettlement policies have been greatly improved.

All the resettlement procedures met the requirements of the Law. The resettlement transition issues for
house compensation have been well addressed. The quality of the resettled houses is good. All the affected
persons who selected house compensation have moved into new houses with bigger areas and better house
quality and living environment. All the affected units and residents have received full compensation. All
affected units have completely recovered their production and the salaries and living standards for the
employees do not decrease. All the affected residents who required monetary compensation have bought
their houses from the real estate market.




                                                      - 30 -

The sample investigation shows that since the resettlement issues were stressed, the living standards and
their properties for affected persons during the five-year construction period have been raised, the negative
impact from the project has been mitigated and the situation of affected persons has been stabilized.

3.12    Assessment on the World Bank and Officers.
The implementation of this Project has pushed the urban transport development agenda forward, and
contributed to the improvement of the investment environment in the province. The World Bank officers
organized a broad and deep investigation during the preparation of this Project, applied for an international
grant and assigned a team international consultant to cooperate with Chinese officers and local consultants
to ensure the success of the identification of the subprojects, launch of this Project, construction
supervision related to road infrastructure, public transport, traffic management and safety, road
maintenance and technical assistance. The WB officers visited Liaoning several times and help solve
problems raised during project implementation.

3.13    Assessment on LUCRPO and PMOs.
LUCRPO played an important role on the cooperation between implementing agencies, PMOs, World
Bank, and other relevant agencies and the guidance to the detail work and project progress.

The Liaoning Financial Department (LFD) was responsible for disbursement. It meet the regulation to
disburse within 5 working days in accordance with "Several Notes for Liaoning Urban Transport Project"
specified by the WB and the LFD. The project disbursement during the construction of the Project ensured
the contractors' needs for funds.

3.14    Assessment on Project Sustainability.
The overall objective of this Project has been achieved and as an added result several urban transport
specialists have been educated. This Project has strengthened the coordinating role of urban transport,
improved the public transport operation abilities, services and revenues, enhanced the traffic management
and crossing accessing abilities, set a strong basis for the three project cities' transport development, and
ensured the three project cities' sustainability.

3.15    Action Plans for Urban Transport System.
Fundamental strategies for urban transport development in three project cities included bus priority policy;
participation of private transport; maximization of traffic facilities; and increase efficiencies.

4       Main Experiences and Lessons

·       Over the past 10 years, major road networks have been established that led to increased traffic
capacities. In addition, institutional strengthening has been accomplished in several areas, including: urban
planning, traffic management, road maintenance bus enterprises, environmental agencies, and urban
designing. All these have provided the basis to connect with international practices and to achieve
sustainable development.

·       A local team -familiar with urban transport- have been well trained. They are now able to better
understand international practices, and are able to communicate with international experts, which was a key
factor for the successful implementation of the project.

·       It has been noticed throughout the project implementation that a higher benefit could have been
gained through the application of a market system practice. For example, a World Bank procedure and



                                                      - 31 -

procurement approach are well introduced for the implementation of all road construction, reconstruction,
and maintenance including competitive bidding for engineering designs and implementation, which have
gained a great deal of project benefits and facilitated the reform process for engineering sectors and
construction units.

·        There was not given sufficient attention to the information database management. The project
related information and data have not been well kept, nor properly managed. A centralized information
management system has not been established.

·        The reforms related to the technical assistance programs should be better implemented and more
practical in nature.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 32 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                        Shenyang Performance Indicators

                           Performance                                                               Baseline year Completion year
      Objective                                                        Scope
                             Indicators                                                                  1998          2004

       Alleviate                             Shenyang line 1                                         0.87 h/12.5km      0.4
     infrastructure    Travel time
      bottlenecks                            Shenyang line 2                                          0.57h/9.6km      0.35


                                             Percentage of class 1 and 2 roads in good condition
                       Pavement conditions                                                               50%           80%
                                             (assuming classification of good, fair, poor and fail)

                                             1. Total maintenance funding (M Yuan)                        57            120
Improve maintenance Sustainable
                                             2. Total roadway under responsibility (10,000 m2)            72            200
 of road investment    maintenance budget
                                             1/2. Average maintenance cost (Yuan/m2)                     79.17          60
                       Average cost of       3. Actual maintenance cost (M Yuan)                          20            88
                       maintenance           4. Maintenance performed (10,000 m2)                         35            176
                       performed             3/4. Average cost of performed maintenance (Yuan/m2)         40            50
                                             Shenyang line 1
                       Traffic flow at the   Cars                                                       10,486        16,857
                       screen line (12 h
 Improve operational traffic flow by vehicle Buses                                                       1,020         1,774

 efficiency and safety classification)       Light trucks                                                 716          1,279

    of road system                           Heavy trucks                                                 14           1,613

                       Pedestian and bicycle
                                             Within the first ring road                                6,498/897     2,948/698
                       accidents/deaths

                                             Operating subsidy (10,000 Yuan)                             4,000           0
                       Annual subsidy of
                                             1. Total operation cost (M Yuan)                           205.53          500
                       operation cost for bus
                       availability          2. Operation Length (M km)                                  64.13          202
                                             1/2. Average operation cost (Yuan/km)                        3.21          2.5
                       Public buses for
                       service               Percent bus fleet available for service                    91.07%         99%

Increase the efficiency                      line number for service (lines)
                       Lines for service
 and effectiveness of                        Fare-box lines
   public transport                          Shenyang line 1                                              26            19
        service        Travel time
                                             Shenyang line 2                                              22            12
                                             Shenyang line 1
                                             Public bus                                                   67            73
                       Average Occupancy     Cars                                                         55            65
                       (%)                   Shenyang line 2
                                             Public bus                                                   75            80
                                             Cars                                                         60            70




                                                                    - 33 -

                                          Fushun Performance Indicators

                            Performance                                                                Baseline year Completion year
      Objective                                                         Scope
                             Indicators                                                                   1998          2004

       Alleviate
     infrastructure    Travel time                                Hunhe South Road                     0.9h/24.8km        0.5
      bottlenecks

                                              Percentage of class 1 and 2 roads in good condition
                       Pavement conditions                                                               79.90%        76.55%
                                              (assuming classification of good, fair, poor and fail)

                                              1. Total maintenance funding (M Yuan)                       8.75            81
Improve maintenance Sustainable
                                              2. Total roadway under responsibility (10,000 m2)           16.4           124
 of road investment    maintenance budget
                                              1/2. Average maintenance cost (Yuan/m2)                     53.4            65
                       Average cost of        3. Actual maintenance cost (M Yuan)                          4.4           161
                       maintenance            4. Maintenance performed (10,000 m2)                          11           109
                       performed              3/4. Average cost of performed maintenance (Yuan/m2)          40           147
                                              Yongji Road - Xiyi Road (Dongsan Street)
                       Traffic flow at the    Cars                                                        3,436         1,860
                       screen line (12 h
                                              Buses                                                       2,730         4,675
 Improve operational   traffic flow by vehicle
                                              Light trucks                                                 540
 efficiency and safety classification)

    of road system                            Heavy trucks                                                 738

                       Pedestian and bicycle
                                              Within the first ring road                                 519/249       415/199
                       accidents/deaths

                                              Operating subsidy (10,000 Yuan)                             1,050           50
                       Annual subsidy of
                                              1. Total operation cost (M Yuan)                              85          114.84
                       operation cost for bus
                       availability           2. Operation Length (M km)                                  26.1          50.59
                                              1/2. Average operation cost (Yuan/km)                       3.26           2.27

                       Annual passengers      Traffic passenger flow (100,000,000 people)                  2.4           2.31

Increase the efficiency                       Bus number for service                                       657          1,006
                       Operationable buses
 and effectiveness of                         Percent bus fleet available for service                    91.2%          96.0%
   public transport                           Line number for service (lines)                               29            50
        service        Operationable lines
                                              Fare-box lines                                                20            50

                       Travel time (minutes) Yongji Road - Xiyi Road (Dongsan Street)                       10            7

                                              Yongji Road - Xiyi Road (Dongsan Street)
                       Average Occupancy
                                              Public bus                                                    69            69
                       (%)
                                              Cars                                                          59            63




                                                                     - 34 -

                                         Anshan Performance Indicators

                            Performance                                                               Baseline year Completion year
      Objective                                                        Scope
                             Indicators                                                                   1998         2004

                                              1.South Jianguo Road(Start point South Ring
                                                                                                       0.37h/9.4km     0.26h
       Alleviate                              Road)--North Jianguo Road (End point Lishan Square)
     infrastructure    Travel time            2.Huangang Road(start point West Minsheng Road
      bottlenecks                             Crossing)--Yongchang Street (End point Yuanlin Road      0.28h/7.0km     0.15h
                                              Crossing)

                                              Percentage of class 1 and 2 roads in good condition
                       Pavement conditions                                                                68%           72%
                                              (assuming classification of good, fair, poor and fail)

                                              1. Total maintenance funding (M Yuan)                         5            5.6
Improve maintenance Sustainable
                                              2. Total roadway under responsibility (10,000 m2)             7           8.24
 of road investment    maintenance budget
                                              1/2. Average maintenance cost (Yuan/m2)                     71.43         67.8
                       Average cost of        3. Actual maintenance cost (M Yuan)                           4           7.48
                       maintenance            4. Maintenance performed (10,000 m2)                        6.65          11.3
                       performed              3/4. Average cost of performed maintenance (Yuan/m2)        60.15         66.2

                                              1.South Jianguo Road(Start point South Ring
                                              Road)--North Jianguo Road (End point Lishan Square)

                                              Cars                                                       15,261        18,201
                                              Buses                                                       1,821        2,620

                       Traffic flow at the    Light trucks                                                3,216        2,141
 Improve operational screen line (12 h        Heavy trucks                                                 195          636
 efficiency and safety traffic flow by vehicle
  of road system for   classification)        2.Renmin road (Start point is Jiefang

    Bridge surface                            Square)--Zhonghua Road(End point is Jiefang Square)

   drainage design                            Cars                                                       11,995        24,213
                                              Buses                                                       6,410        4,260
                                              Light trucks                                                 192         1,536
                                              heavy trucks                                                 10           978

                       Pedestian and bicycle
                                                                                                         412/93        262/36
                       accidents/deaths

                                              Operating subsidy (10,000 Yuan)                             3,000          0
                       Annual subsidy of      1. Total operation cost (M Yuan)                           147.89        164.37
                       operation cost for bus
                       availability           2. Operation Length (M km)                                  39.95        54.25
                                              1/2. Average operation cost (Yuan/km)                        3.7          3.03

                       Public buses for
                                              Percent bus fleet available for service                    90.7%         93.6%
                       service

                                              1.South Jianguo Road(Start point South Ring
Increase the efficiency                                                                                   22.2           15
                                              Road)--North Jianguo Road (End point Lishan Square)
 and effectiveness of
   public transport    Travel time (minutes)

        service                               2.Renmin road (Start point is Jiefang
                                                                                                           23            18
                                              Square)--Zhonghua Road(End point is Jiefang Square)

                                              1.South Jianguo Road--North Jianguo Road
                                              Public bus                                                   60            67
                       Average Occupancy      Cars                                                         50            52
                       (%)                    4.Renmin Road - Zhonghua Road
                                              Public bus                                                   70            82
                                              Cars                                                         57            74




                                                                    - 35 -

                           SUMMARY OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE STUDIES
    TA NAME            COSTS                    OBJECTIVE                   OUTPUT                 COMMENTS
International         $2,455,443  Bid document preparation                    S    With the help of the consultant both the
consultant and local                                                               preparation time, quality of the documents
expert support for                                                                 the technical capacity of local staff
Bid Document                                                                       improved significantly.
Preparation
International
consultant and local              Construction supervision                    S
team cooperation on
construction
supervision
Motor Vehicle         $343,875    Development and implementation of           U    The recommendations of the study were not
Emissions Control                 an MVECS strategy                                sufficiently integrated with proposals being
Strategy (MVECS)                                                                   developed by LPEB and and well enough
                                                                                   developed to be implemented.
Bus Exclusive Way     $366,424    Develop designs for bus priority lanes      S    The study was ahead of its time. The final
Design Study                                                                       outcome of this study was limited as there
                                                                                   was little interest among the decision
                                                                                   makers about bus priority at that time.
                                                                                   Given the limited local interest, the Bank
                                                                                   also had concerns about the appropriateness
                                                                                   of the designs
Road Maintenance      $186,000    (i) Provide a road maintenance plan         S    The outcome of the study was met and the
Plan Study                        and recommendation for each project              three cities have de eloped a road
                                  city; (ii) provide appropriate                   maintenance plan based on the
                                  international and local experience as            recommendations of the study.
                                  necessary to organize a study tour and
                                  training; (iii) implement road
                                  maintenance plan; and
                                  (iv) provide advice on the
                                  development of a more scientific road
                                  maintenance plan
Traffic signal        $114,910    Develop Area Traffic Control (ATC)          S    The study completed the ATC technical
control system study              specifications.                                  specifications for Shenyang and Fushun
                                                                                   which were used for the bidding documents.
                                                                                   It would have been more useful to train
                                                                                   some local staff during the course of the
                                                                                   preparation.
Public Transport       $86,930    Review the options for public               U    The size of the study was small, and the
Policy and                        transport reform in the three cities and         final outcome was limited. The
Regulation                        as well as review both domestic and              international consultant had difficulty in
                                  international experience so as to                understanding the different transport
                                  permit the development of future                 policies and regulations among the three
                                  policies and regulations in the project          cities and did not have adequate experience
                                  cities.                                          in the field.
Study of Parking      $233,800    Develop appropriate parking policies        U    The study does not address how to put in
Policy and            (total cost and strategies for both MVs and                  place comprehensive planning principles to
Management                for     NMVs. Advise on the creation of                  tackle future parking needs. There is a lot
                       parking    regulations and pricing policies for on          of discussion on design of parking areas and
                      and traffic and off-street parking. Review and               garages, with limited discussion of
                      accident    recommend revisions to parking                   appropriate parking policies and strategies,
                        study)    requirements and design standards in             and so appears to fall short of the objectives
                                  new and old buildings. Assist in                 set for it.
                                  developing parking proposals
Study of the traffic              Improve road safety through traffic         S    The report made good points about road
accidents                         accident reduction.                              safety audits, new to the Chinese case for
                                                                                   urban roads, and broader accident costing.
                                                                                   Good suggestions for accident remedial
                                                                                   work were given with examples of good
                                                                                   international practice. Accident black spot
                                                                                   treatments have been implemented as per
                                                                                   the recommendation of the study.




                                                                - 36 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                          US$ million  US$ million
Public Transport                                          24.52         12.29           50.1
Traffic Management                                        28.54         29.51          103.4
Road Infrastructure                                      291.84        195.25           66.9
Road Maintenance                                          31.02         95.41          307.6
Technical Assistance                                       6.48           3.99          61.6

Total Baseline Cost                                      382.40        336.45
                        Total Project Costs              382.40        336.45
                                        Front-end fee      1.50           1.50        100.00
                  Total Financing Required               383.90        337.95




                                                - 37 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              171.90             84.60               0.00             0.00             256.50
                                      (82.50)           (40.60)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (123.10)
2. Goods                               24.70              0.20               0.00             0.00              24.90
                                      (20.00)            (0.20)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (20.20)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00               5.20             1.30              6.50
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (5.20)           (0.00)             (5.20)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00               0.00             94.50             94.50
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                       0.00               0.00               1.50             0.00              1.50
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)             (1.50)           (0.00)             (1.50)
   Total                              196.60             84.80               6.70             95.80            383.90
                                     (102.50)           (40.80)             (6.70)           (0.00)           (150.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              142.33            107.70              0.00             0.00             250.03
                                      (68.32)           (51.69)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (120.01)
2. Goods                               24.37              0.00              0.00             0.00             24.37
                                      (21.93)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (21.93)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              4.07             0.00              4.07
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.07)            (0.00)           (4.07)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             57.98            57.98
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                       0.00               0.00              1.50             0.00              1.50
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.50)            (0.00)           (1.50)
   Total                              166.70            107.70              5.57             57.98            337.95
                                      (90.25)           (51.69)            (5.57)            (0.00)          (147.51)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 38 -

                     PROJECT FINANCING BY COMPONENT (in US$ million equivalent)

CITY/Component           APPRAISAL PAD            ACTUAL ICR         PERCENTAGE OF APPRAISAL

                       Bank    GOC   TOTAL   Bank   GOC    TOTAL       Bank     GOC  TOTAL
SHENYANG
  Public transport       5.60    4.49  10.09   1.11   1.20      2.31    20%     27%   23%
  Traffic management    12.00    8.21  20.21  11.86   6.17    18.03     99%     75%   89%
  Road infrastructure   35.80   77.69 113.49  15.93  17.28    33.21     44%     22%   29%
  Road maintenance      10.20   11.49  21.69  25.98  23.65    49.63    255%     206%  229%
  Technical assistance   1.70    0.43   2.13   1.57    -        1.57    92%      0%   74%
  Front-end fee          0.65    -      0.65   0.65    -        0.65   100%       -   100%
       Sub-Total        65.95  102.31 168.26  57.10  48.30  105.40      87%     47%   63%

FUSHUN
  Public transport       1.10    0.74   1.84   0.83   1.15      1.98    75%     155%  108%
  Traffic management     2.30    1.05   3.35   3.21   2.76      5.97   140%     263%  178%
  Road infrastructure   32.10   49.02  81.12  26.72  37.40    64.12     83%     76%   79%
  Road maintenance       2.70    2.25   4.95  11.93   9.79    21.72    442%     435%  439%
  Technical assistance   1.70    0.48   2.18   1.25    -        1.25    74%      0%   57%
  Front-end fee          0.40    -      0.40   0.40    -        0.40   100%       -   100%
       Sub-Total        40.30   53.54  93.84  44.34  51.10    95.44    110%     95%   102%

ANSHAN
  Public transport       7.00    5.59  12.59   3.40   4.60      8.00    49%     82%   64%
  Traffic management     3.10    1.88   4.98   5.51    -        5.51   178%      0%   111%
  Road infrastructure   29.50   67.73  97.23  28.89  69.03    97.92     98%     102%  101%
  Road maintenance       1.90    2.48   4.38   6.74  17.32    24.06    355%     698%  549%
  Technical assistance   1.80    0.37   2.17   1.17    -        1.17    65%      0%   54%
  Front-end fee          0.45    -      0.45   0.45    -        0.45   100%       -   100%
       Sub-Total        43.75   78.05 121.80  46.16  90.95  137.11     106%     117%  113%

Total Project          150.00  233.90 383.90 147.60 190.35  337.95      98%     81%   88%




                                             - 39 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1. Background

The ex-post economic evaluation was performed using the same methodology applied during project
preparation as documented in the Project Feasibility Study dated March 15, 1998. The basis for the
methodology was to evaluate the economic efficiency of different alternative actions and contribute to the
selection of the project sub-components. A model that was previously used by international development
financing institutions on urban transport projects was adapted to the specific needs of the Liaoning Urban
Transport Project.

The methodology used was able to model most types of urban transport sub-components and register the
initial investment cost and stream of public expenditures and associated maintenance, operational and
institutional costs. On the benefits side, estimates were made on savings realized on vehicle operating costs,
user costs (travel time), and non-user costs. The output of the model provided the basis to define the
evaluation criteria to compare alternatives and carry out the sensitivity and risk analysis.


2. Evaluation Criteria

The evaluation of the economic efficiency of each project sub-component, or aggregated project as a whole,
followed the same principles of cost-benefit analysis by comparing the proposed alternatives with the base
alternative from a macroeconomic point of view. All investments and associated costs and benefits were
quantified in economic terms, and these were calculated by deducting taxes, subsidies, and economic
transfers from the financial costs.

The criteria defined to determine the feasibility of each project sub-component from the economic point of
view included: a benefit/cost ratio equal or greater than 1 (B/C>1); a positive Net Present Value (NPV>0);
and an economic internal rate of return greater than the opportunity cost of capital of 12% (EIRR>12%).


3. Project Costs

Urban transport investments were calculated as the sum of: the initial investment costs associated costs
during economic useful life, annual infrastructure maintenance and operating costs; and subtracted by the
residual value of 20% at the end of project life. These costs included the acquisition of public transport
vehicles and other equipment necessary to enable full operation of each component of the project.

In addition, other costs included those related to vertical and horizontal markings, signs and traffic lights,
routine and periodic maintenance of road and drainage, control systems, bus terminals, and other
operational elements of public transport systems.




                                                      - 40 -

4. Project Benefits

The following project benefits were considered in the economic evaluation: reduction in vehicle operating
costs (VOC) for automobiles, buses and trucks; reduction of travel time for vehicle owners, vehicle
passengers, and bus passengers. Also, long-term savings were estimated from reduced or delayed
maintenance and operating costs, following road resurfacing or structural strengthening. These benefits and
others like the reduction of number of accidents or environmental contamination were calculated; first, only
if they were quantifiable; and second, if they were significant as compared with the total estimated benefits.
Pedestrian benefits were considered only when applicable on some public transport or for individuals using
bicycles or motorcycles.

5. Project Assumptions

Exchange Rate. The project investment costs were estimated in local currency RMBs and its corresponding
disbursements scheduled over a five-year period. In order to obtain costs in a single currency, all local costs
were converted to US dollars. All these calculations used the same exchange rate of 8.3 RMB = 1 US$, as
there were no substantial variation of exchange rate during project implementation.

Financial and Economic Costs. Economic Costs were estimated based on Financial Costs. At the time of
appraisal 14% was deducted from financial costs to obtain the economic costs. This percentage was also
used at the time of project completion.

Maintenance and Operating Costs. No explicit costs for maintenance and operation were available. These
were estimated at 2% of economic costs. The actual operating and maintenance costs were not collected
and the same percentage was used for the final evaluation.

Economic Useful Life, Residual Value, and Reinvestments. The useful life of each infrastructure or
equipment varied depending on its nature or basic characteristics. Short-term life (equipment) was defined
as five years and assumed 20% residual value. Medium-and long-term investment such as road widening,
bus-exclusive lanes, or road paving for public transport assumed a 15-year life span. In some cases, like
signs, markings, and traffic lights for which re-investments were needed, these were also included. There
were also some special cases with residual value, like land acquisition that assumed 100% residual value.

Vehicle Operating Costs. These were calculated for operation of vehicles as a function of speed (km/hour)
and road surface rugosity as determined by the international rugosity index (IRI). Road sections with paved
surface in excellent condition were classified as having IRI = 2, those in good condition IRI = 4, and those
in bad condition IRI = 6.

Vehicle Passenger Travel Time Costs. Travel time costs were estimated based on average income
perceived by the respective vehicle passengers. It was assumed that in automobiles at least one passenger
was the private owner of the car and that his income was at least ten times the average value, as this was
considered to be the minimum income needed to buy an automobile. The auto passengers were considered
to have the same value of time of a bus passenger, or bicycle rider. Travel time savings were associated
with those related with convenience, comfort and safety. If no specific values were identifiable, the model
assumed a 30% of the total time saved as having alternative economic use and were directly linked with the
economically active population.




                                                     - 41 -

Commercial vehicle speed. Commercial vehicle speed was determined as a function of the link v/c and
several kinds of driver habits, among other factors. Speeds were calculated estimating the time (including
stops) and dividing it by the total length in km. For Shenyang, Fushun, and Anshan the speed was a
function of the v/c that varies from 0 to 1 and varies by the type of vehicle, namely: automobile, bus and
trucks. A constant speed of 10 km/hour was adopted for bicycles and 3.5 km/hour for pedestrians.


6. Ex-post Economic Evaluation Results

The calculation of the ex-post evaluation was performed by the Borrower. The results presented below can
be partially explained because the actual population growth was in line with the projections; and the
increase of buses and trucks were only slightly higher than projected. However, there are two factors that
had an overall positive impact on the project: (i) the higher than expected growth in passenger vehicles, and
(ii) the higher than expected growth of the income per-capita. Both of these factors generated a larger time
savings value, for both owners and passenger of vehicle and buses.

The criteria described above was applied to each project sub-component and the results obtained for each
city and the project as a whole are presented for each city.


                          Results by City Shenyang      Anshan       Fushun       Project

                                                    Project Appraisal Document

                        EIRR                16.7%       20.8%         19.8%       17.4%

                                                  Implementation Completion Report

                        EIRR                9.1%        20.6%         28.3%       22.9%


Substantial changes introduced in the implementation of the Shenyang component resulted in a rate of
return lower than the opportunity cost of the capital. The changes that had the most negative impact were
the cancellation of the Jianshe-Nanwu Expressway and the construction of the bus maintenance facility.
About 72% of benefits that were expected from vehicle operation costs savings were not realized under this
component.

At the time of project appraisal a sensitivity analysis was also undertaken to measure the impact of
significant changes in the user benefits and project costs. The final results showed that most sub-projects
remained economically viable even in the worst-case scenario which reflected a 25% increase in
construction costs and 25% reduction in overall benefits. The worst-case scenario did not take place and
therefore it is concluded that the overall project was very robust and that has indeed generated high
economic returns for all the participating cities.




                                                      - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/07/1995                1    TASK MANAGER (1)
              08/15/1995                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
                                             CONSULTANT; URBAN
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/24/1998              14     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             URBAN TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALISTS (4); ROAD
                                             MAINTENANCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALISTS (3);
                                             RESETTLEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); DESIGN
                                             ENGINEERS (2);
                                             INTERPRETER (1)
              12/20/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); STAFF ASSISTANT (1)
              02/22/1999                5    TASK MANAGER (1); SENIOR
                                             COUNSEL (1); SENIOR
                                             DISBURSEMENTS OFFICER
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             ANALYST (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              06/18/1999               10    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SENIOR HWY ENGINEER
                                             (1); ENVIRON. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); RESETTL. SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FM SPECIALIST (1); FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); TRAFFIC MGNT.
                                             SPECIAL. (1)
              10/18/1999                4    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (2);



                                              - 43 -

                      SENIOR ENGINEER (1)
      02/25/2000    6 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                      RESETTL. SPECIALIST (1);
                      ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); FM SPECIALIST (1);
                      HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
      04/21/2000    1 CONSULTANT (1)               S    S
      09/21/2000    4 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                      HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      03/26/2001    6 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                      SENIOR HWY ENGINEER (1);
                      ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL.
                      (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                      TRAFFIC MGMT. CONSUL (1)
      07/16/2001    7 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                      RESETTLEMENT SPECIAL.
                      (1); ENVIRONMENT SPECIAL.
                      (1); FM SPECIALIST (1);
                      TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      10/28/2001    3 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (2)
      03/29/2002    5 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (2);
                      RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); INFRASTRUCTURE
                      SPECIAL (1)
      09/20/2002    6 URBAN TRANSPORT/TTL (1);     S    S
                      URBAN TRANSPORT/ALT
                      TTL (1); RESETTLEMENT (1);
                      ENVIRONMENT (1);
                      HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                      TRANSPORT PLANNER (1)
      12/08/2004    1 ALTERNATE TTL (1)            S    S


ICR
      06/15/2006    4 SENIOR TRANSPORT             S    S
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                      (1); CONSULTANTS (2)




                      - 44 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                 No. Staff weeks                        US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                             122.8                                368.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                   52.6                                157.8
  Supervision                                            117.4                                372.3
  ICR                                                     11.5                                 41.1
  Total                                                  304.3                                939.5
Notes:
Assumes that 70% of total expenditures before board approval ($526,100) were used for identification and preparation.
Assumes that 30% of total expenditures before board approval ($526,100) were used for appraisal and negotiation.
Staff weeks for identification, preparation, appraisal, and negotiation were calculated based on an average of $3,000 per staff
week.




                                                              - 45 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l China Urban Transport Development Strategy, Proceedings of a Symposium in Beijing, November
  8-10, 1995, Edited by Stephen Stares and Liu Zhi

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project Appraisal Document, February 25, 1999

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Parking Study by Wilbur Smith Associated Ltd.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Accident Analysis Study by Wilbur Smith Associated Ltd.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Road Maintenance Plan Study by Obermeyer Planen and Beraten
  Gmbh, August 2003

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Motor Vehicle Emission Control Strategy, Sear Brown
  Group/H&J, Inc, July 2003

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Public Transport Reform Study, Sear Brown Group/H&J, Inc,
  August 2003

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Environmental Assessment Report, January 1999

l Report on Shenyang Traffic and Transport, Shenyang Urban Construction Project office, October
  1996

l Methodology for Economic Analysis, LUCPRO, Post Buckley International, Inc, March 1999

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Fushun Subproject, Environmental Impact Assessment, Draft Final
  Report, September 1998, Fushun Environmental Science Institute, Post, Buckley International, Inc.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Shenyang Subproject, Environmental Impact Assessment, Draft
  Final Report, September 1998, Shenyang Environmental Science Institute, Post, Buckley International,
  Inc.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Anshan Subproject, Environmental Impact Assessment, Draft Final
  Report, September 1998, Anshan Metallurgical Design Institute, Post, Buckley International, Inc.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Feasibility Study Report, Draft Final Report, Volume 1, Main
  Report, March 15, 1998, Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project Office, Shenyang Project
  Office, Fushun Project Office, Anshan Project Office, Post, Buckley International, Inc.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Feasibility Study Report, Draft Final Report, Volume 2, Shenyang
  City, March 15, 1998, Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project Office, Shenyang Project
  Office, Post, Buckley International, Inc.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Feasibility Study Report, Draft Final Report, Volume 3, Fushun
  City, March 15, 1998, Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project Office, Fushun Project Office,
  Post, Buckley International, Inc.

l Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Feasibility Study Report, Draft Final Report, Volume 4, Anshan
  City, March 15, 1998, Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project Office, Anshan Project Office,
  Post, Buckley International, Inc.




                                                - 48 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 30063R


                                                                  C H I N A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        RUSSIAN FEDERATION


                 LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                                            SHENYANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HEILONGJIANG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Shangyuan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M O N G O L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       L               J I L I N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Beihai                                                                                                                                 N       Shenyang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M              LIAONING         DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N EI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BEIJING Beijing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REP. OF
                                                                                                            Qishan                                               Ningshan                 Nenjiang           Bailongjiang  Heilongjiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HEBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANDONG          Yellow
                                                                      Minglian                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      QINGHAI                                                          Sea
                                Beiyi
                                      Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GANSU

                                              Extension    R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHAANXI    HENAN            JIANGSU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANGHAI
           OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kunshan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUBEI                                 East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SICHUAN                                        ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XIZANG                    CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           R                                                                        JIANGXI
                                        OOO
                                               OOO                                      Beiyi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUNAN

                                                    OOOOO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bawangsi                                                                                                                            GUIZHOU                           FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                         Buyunshan
                                                             OOOOOOOOOOOO                                                                        Sanjiang
                              R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YUNNAN                                                     TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GUANGDONG
                                                                                                  Beiyi                                                                         Lianhe                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GUANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HONG KONG

                                                                                  Beier                Road                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Caocang                                                                                           MACAO

                                                                       R        OOO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VIETNAM
                                                                                   OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO Extension                                                                                                                                                                                                        O                                                                                                     LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O                                                                                             MY   PEOPLE'S                          South China
                                                                            R                                                                                                                                                                           Youhaojie
                                                                                               R
                                                                 R
                                                                        R                                                                                                                         ********                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANMAR


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              O                                                 Zhulin                                            DEM.                   HAINAN         Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O                                                                               THAILAND           REP.                                                PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OOOOOOOOO                                    R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO OOOOOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O                       O
                                                                                             R                                                OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             O                      O                                                                                                                                  ROADS:
                                                           R                                                                                                                                                                                                                O                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O Zhongjie            O                Dashizi                                                                                                             NEW ROADS AT GRADE
        Nanqi                                                     R                                        OOOOOOOOO                                                                                                                                                       O                     O
                                                                                         R                                                                                                             Xiaxi                           Xinglin                             O                    O                                             O                                                                                        NEW ELEVATED ROAD
uwgnoguF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O                    O                                             O
                                                                                                          R                                                                                                                                           Wangyunsi           O                   O                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O                   O                                             O          izihsoaiX                                                                        ROAD WIDENING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         O                  O                                             O
                                                                           Jianshe                                                                                                                                                                                      O                  O
                                                                                      R                                                                                                                                                                                                                           P                      O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O                 O                                                                                                                                            MV ONLY ROAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O                 O                                             O
                                                                         Nanliu                                                                                                                                                                                        O                O                                                                                                                                              MAINTENANCE
                                                                                                                         OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO                                                                                                                                                                                            O
                                                                                                                                                                              ***                                                                                     O                O                                             O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      O               O                                             O                                                                                                  INTERCHANGE
                                                                                                                  Shengli               Taiyuanjie                                                                                     **********************
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OOOOOOOOOOOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pangjiangjie
                                                                                                                                                  Zhonghua                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    R        RAILWAY GRADE CROSSING IMPROVEMENT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Nanlejiao
                                                                 Xunwang
                                                                   Nanjiu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT:
                                                                                                                 Minzu                   Nanyi                 OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO                               OOOOOO                      OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Renao                                                                                Wanquan                                                                          JUNCTION CHANNELIZATION
                                          Qixian                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OOOO

                                                                                                                          TongzeNanning                        Jaoyuan            Nansijing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NMV ONLY ROAD (SHORT TERM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OOO

                                                  Jingxing                                                                                                                Yunji                                                                   n                                                                                                                                                                                    NMV ONLY ROAD (LONG TERM)

                                                                                                                                                        OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
                                                                                                                                                           Jilin                                                                               gnia                                                                                                                                                          OOOOOOO                   TRAFFIC SIGNAL COORDINATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              in                                                                                                                                                                                       ONE-WAY STREET
                                                                                                                                                        Nanwu                                                                                 Q                                                                   Wanliutang                                                                                                           PEDESTRIAN ONLY STREET

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              P        OFF-STREET PARKING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Quanyuanxi
                                                                                                                                           Zhongxing                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        *******                    MISSING LINK CONNECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Wenhua                                                                                                                                                                                   PUBLIC TRANSPORT:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Quanyuansan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CENTER LANES BUSWAY


                                                                                                              Nanjing                                                                                                                                                                                                                              nan                                                                                 SIDE BUS LANE (SHORT TERM)

               0         500        1000        1500         2000        2500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Fumin                                                                                   SIDE BUS LANE (LONG TERM)


                                         METERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fengleyi                   Changqingxi

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONTRAFLOW BUS LANE

                                                                                                                                       River                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN STREETS AND ROADS

                                                                                                                      Hunhe
             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS

             The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
             on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BUILT-UP AREAS

             judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
             acceptance of such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JULY 2006

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 30062R


                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                  C H I N A

                                                                     HEILONGJIANG                                                         LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT

                 M O N G O L I A                                                                                                                                                                FUSHUN
                                                         L              J I L I N
                                                       O
                                                     G
                                                  N
                                                O              Fushun
                                             M              LIAONING         DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                             REP. OF KOREA              ROADS:                                TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT:                                                              PUBLIC TRANSPORT:                                                   RIVERS
                                    N E I
                                                BEIJING Beijing

                                                       TIANJIN                                          NEW ROADS                             JUNCTION CHANNELIZATION                                                          BUS LANES / BUS AND NMV ONLY ROAD                                   MAIN STREETS AND ROADS
                                                 HEBEI                             REP. OF
                                                                                   KOREA
                                          SHANXI                                                        ROAD WIDENING                         NMV ONLY ROAD                                                                                                                                        OTHER STREETS AND ROADS
                                                     SHANDONG
                             INGXIA                                    Yellow
                            N
       QINGHAI                                                          Sea                             MAINTENANCE                           AREAWIDE COMPREHENSIVE TRAFFIC                                                                                                                       BUILT-UP AREAS
                     GANSU         SHAANXI    HENAN            JIANGSU                                                                         MANAGEMENT SCHEME
                                                                                                        INTERCHANGE
                                                        ANHUI
                                                                       SHANGHAI                                                               ONE-WAY STREET
                                             HUBEI                                                      YONGAN BRIDGE
                   SICHUAN                                        ZHEJIANG        East                                                        PEDESTRIAN ONLY STREET
                                                                                 China
 XIZANG                    CHONGQING

                                                     JIANGXI                      Sea
                                           HUNAN                                                                                   *******    MISSING LINK CONNECTION

                            GUIZHOU                           FUJIAN


               YUNNAN                                                     TAIWAN

                                     GUANGXI   GUANGDONG

                                                        HONG KONG
                                                    MACAO
       ANMAR            VIETNAM
            MY     LAO
                 PEOPLE'S                           South China

THAILAND           DEM.                   HAINAN         Sea
                   REP.                                                PHILIPPINES


                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Aida           Expwy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .


                                                                                                                                                                              Ningyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Changchun



                                                                                                                                                                          Road                                                                                         Hun
                                                                                                                                                                                      Jie     Linjiang  Road               Jie           Wanxin                             River
                                                                                                                                                          Xincheng                                                                       Bridge
                                                                                                                                                            Jiangjiun
                                                                                                                                                      Road                                 Yongan
                                                                                                                                                                                           Bridge                Changchun
                                                                                                                                                                                      Lu                         Bridge

                                                                                                                                                 Jiangjiun              Hunhenan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lu
                                                                                                                                 Gebu Xingfu     Bridge                                  KUANGXI                                      Qingnian
                                                                                                                                       Bridge             W
                                                                        Heping                                                  Bridge                     ugong
                                                                         Bridge                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dong
                                                                                                           Gucheng Bridge
                                   Hunhe         Hun                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Zhou
                                                                                                           Interchange                                                                                Yongning Jie
                                   Bridge                River Interchange                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bridge
                                                                                                                                                                     Jie
                        Interchange
                                                                                                               Anze                             Lu
                                                                                                                     GUCHENG            Xingping                    *Xifuping
                                                                                                                                                                        *****
                                                             Lu                                                                                                           Lu
                                                                                                                   Jie
                                               Dandong
                                                                                          CHANGNAN                                              MINE PIT                                                                                                                              KUANGDONG


                                                                                            AnshanLu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DONGZHOU

                                         LISHI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MINE PIT


                                                                                                                           MINE PIT



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
                                                                                                                                                      0                   1              2          3       4                  5               on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or

                                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS                                            acceptance of such boundaries.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JULY 2006

                                                                                                                                                                Sha                                              Road


                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hongqi

                                               Anliu
                                                    Road


                                                                                                                                                                                           River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hebei



                                                                                                                                                           ANSHAN                                                     Sha He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Bridge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Road
                                    Anda                                                                                                           IRON & STEEL
                                             Road                                                                                                        COMPANY                                        Laodong




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Anqian


                         ToDalian                                                                                                                                           Road                   Road                                                         Road


                                                                                                                                                                     Jianguo                Shengli      Shuangshan

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road
                                                                        Rengmin

                                                                                    Road                                                                                                                                       Shuguang
                                                                                                                 Huangang                                                                                                                   Road

                                                                                                                          Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Shengou


                                                                                                                                                                  YongchangP

                                                                                                                                            P
                                                                                     Road                                                                                    Street

                                                                        Jiaotong                                Minsheng

                                                                                                                        Road


                          To Tengao
                                                                                     Jiefang
                                                                                               Road

                                                                                                                                                                              Eryijiu
                                                                                                                                                                               Park

                                                                                                                                                             Road

                                                                                                                                                                               Hunan

                                                                                                                                                     Zhonghua                       Street P



                                                                                                                                                            Road


                                                                                                                                                     Yuanlin
                                                                                                        Sandao                                                                                                0             500             1000    1500

                                                                                                   Tiexi Street          South
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 METERS
                                                                                                                                 Ring
                                                                                                                                        Road

                                                    Jiuteng           Road


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Kuanggong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Road




                                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                      The boundaries, colors,denominations and anyother information shown
                                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                      judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                      acceptance of such boundaries.




                              RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                                                                                                                                                                          C H I N A

                                                                              HEILONGJIANG                                        LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                        ANSHAN
                          M O N G O L I A
                                                                 L               J I L I N
                                                                O
                                                              G
                                                           N
                                                        O
                                                      M               LIAONING                                                                  ROADS:                                                                     PUBLIC TRANSPORT:
                                                                      Anshan          DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                      REP. OF KOREA
                                              N EI
                                                         BEIJING Beijing                                                                        NEW ROADS                                                                  BUS LANES
                                                                TIANJIN
                                                          HEBEI                             REP. OF
                                                                                            KOREA                                               ROAD WIDENING / RECONSTRUCTION                                             BUS AND NMV ONLY ROAD
                                                   SHANXI
                                                              SHANDONG          Yellow
                                     NINGXIA                                                                                                    MAINTENANCE                                                                TRAMLINE EXCLUSIVE ROW
                QINGHAI                                                          Sea

                               GANSU        SHAANXI    HENAN            JIANGSU                                                                 WUYI INTERCHANGE                                                           TRAM AND NMV ONLY ROAD
                                                                 ANHUI                                                                             AND BUS TERMINAL
                                                                                SHANGHAI

                                                      HUBEI                                 East                                                SHA HE BRIDGE
                           SICHUAN                                         ZHEJIANG
                                                                                           China
          XIZANG                    CHONGQING
                                                                                            Sea
                                                              JIANGXI
                                                    HUNAN                                                                                       TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT:                                                        RIVERS
                                     GUIZHOU                           FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                JUNCTION CHANNELIZATION                                                    STREETS AND ROADS
                        YUNNAN                                                     TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD
                                              GUANGXI   GUANGDONG                                                                               NMV ONLY ROAD                                                              RAILROADS
JUL                                                              HONG KONG
                                                             MACAO                                                                    P         OFF-STREET PARKING                                                                                                       30061R
   Y            ANMAR            VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                                   BUILT-UP AREAS
    2006             MY     LAO
                          PEOPLE'S                          South China

         THAILAND           DEM.                   HAINAN         Sea
                            REP.                                                PHILIPPINES

