E-244
VOL. 1
Liaoning Urban Transport Project
Environment Assessment
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Liaoning Environmental Science and Research Institute
Post Buckley International, Inc.
October, 1998



LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Liaoning Environmental Science and Research Institute
Director:     Song Jiming
Chief Author: Li He, Senior Engineer
Other Staff:   Yang Wenjuan, Engineer
Yue Li, Senior Engineer
Liu Xiuyun, Senior Engineer
Fang Juyan, Senior Engineer
Zhang Wenqing, Engineer
Xu Shaoli. Engineer
Wen Zhenyu, Engineer
Post Buckley International, Inc., Project Consultant
Dahong Li, Senior Environmental Specialist



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                                                                   EA Summary
LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Table of Contents
1. INTRODUCTION ....................................I
1.1 Project Background ....................................                                                                   I
1.2 Basis for the EA Report ....................................1
1.3   Scope of Assessment and Applicable Standards ..................................2
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                              ....2
3. DESCRIPTION OF THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENT                                                            ....4
3.1 Physical Setting                                                        ..4
3.2 Air Quality ......4
3.3 Noise and Vibration                                                       ..5
3.4 Surface Water                                                         ..6
3.5 Sunshine..6
3.6 Soil and Vegetation                                                       .6
3.7 Socio-economic Environment                                                       ..7
4.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES ...........................................7
4.1 Air Quality .....................................................7
4.1.1   Impact Assessment .....................................................7
4.1.2   Mitigation and Residual Impacts .....................................................9
4.2  Noise and Vibration .....................................................9
4.2.1   Impact Assessment .....................................................9
4.2.2   Mitigation and Residual Impacts ....................................................                              10
4.3   Surface Water .................................................... .                                                    11
4.3.1   Impact Assessment .................................................... I 1
4.3.2   Mitigation and Residual Impacts ....................................................                              13
4.4 Sunshine ....................................................  .                                                         14
4.4.1   Impact Assessment ....................................................                                            14
.4.4.2   Mitigation and Residual Impacts ....................................................                              15
4.5   Soil and Vegetation ....................................................                                               15
4.5.1   Impact Assessment ....................................................                                            15
4.5.2   Mitigation and Residual Impacts ....................................................                              1 5
4.6   Socio-economic Impacts ....................................................                                            16
4.6.1   Impact Assessment ....................................................                                            16
4.6.2   Mitigation and Residual Impacts ....................................................                              18
4.7   Resettlement .................................................... .                                                    18
5.   ALTERNATIVES ANALYSIS .                             .          .          .         ................................................ 19
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT PLAN ....................................... 20
6.1   Management Institutions, Staffing and Training                           ........................................... 20
6.1.1   Management Institutions ....................................................                                      20
6.1.2   Staffing and Training ....................................................                                        21
6.2   Environmental Monitoring Plan ....................................................                                     22
6.2.1   Monitoring Program ....................................................                                           22
6.2.2   Responsible Institutions for Monitoring ....................................................                      23
6.2.3   Environmental Monitoring Costs ....................................................                               24
j7.  PUBLIC  PARTICIPATION .                          ....................................................                      24
7.1   Approach and Methodology ....................................................                                          24
7.2   Major Public Concerns and Responses                             .................................................. 25
8.  CONCLUSION ...................................................... 25
i



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                           EA Summary
List of Tables
Table I      Key Project Components with Potential Environmental Impacts         3
Table 2      Physical Setting of the Project                                     4
Table 3      Noise levels Exceeded Standards                                     5
Table 4      Key Socio-economic and Community Indicators                         7
Table 5      Total Motor Vehicle Air Emission Comparison (Year 2010)             8
Table 6      Hunhenan Road Flooding and Traffic Interruption                     13
Table 7      Project Impact on Vegetation (cut or occupied)                      15
Table 8      New Trees and Green Areas and Residual Impacts on Vegetation        15
Table 9      Scope of Resettlement and Rehabilitation                            19
Table 10     Alternative Alignments/Design Comparison                            19
Table 11     Environmental Personnel Training Programs                           22
Table 12     Environmental Monitoring Program                                    23
Table 13     Estimated Costs for Environmental Monitoring (RMB)                  24
Table 14     Public Participation Program                                        24
Table 15     Major Public Concerns and Solutions                                 25
List of Figures
Figure I     Project Location                                                    A-1
Figure 2     Shenyang Project and Environmental Background Monitoring Stations   A-2
Figure 3     Anshan Project and Environmental Background Monitoring Stations     A-3
Figure 4     Fushun Project and Environmental Background Monitoring Stations     A-4
Figure 5     Project Organization Chart                                          A-5
Figure 6     Shenyang Environmental Monitoring Program                           A-6
Figure 7     Anshan Environmental Monitoring Program                             A-7
Figure 8     Fushun Environmental Monitoring Program                             A-8
i1



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                             EA Summary
LIAONING URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Liaoning Province, the People's Republic of China
(October, 1998)
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.1    Project Background
Liaoning Urban Transport Project (LUTP), to be partially financed by the World Bank, consists of
three subprojects in three cities: provincial capital Shenyang, and key industrial cities of Anshan and
Fushun. The three cities, centrally located in the province, are the provincial political and economic
centre, as well as one of the most important industrial bases in China. Figure 1 shows the location of
the project cities (see Appendix for figures).
The overall objective of LUTP is to relieve bottle neck sections in the urban transportation
infrastructure, reduce transportation cost, improve road maintenance, protect the environment and
promote sustainable development, increase operation efficiency and road system safety, and improve
public transportation service quality and efficiency. When implemented, LUTP is expected to serve as
the backbone of the urban transportation framework, relieve transportation congestion, promote the
development of urban economy, and increase the standard of living for urban residents in the three
project cities.
As a critical step in achieving the project environmental goal, each project city has conducted an
Environment Assessment (EA) which includes an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report and
an Environmental Action Plan (EAP). The EA is to identify in early stage of potential environmental
consequences of the project, propose measures to avoid, mitigate or otherwise compensate negative
environmental impacts during construction and operation, and allow incorporation of appropriate
measures in the design to promote environmental benefits and mitigate negative impacts to a
minimum and acceptable level.
This Executive Summary of the Environmental Assessment for LUTP is based primarily on project
EIA reports and EAPs from the three project cities. These reports were prepared by Shenyang
Environmental Science Institute, Anshan Metallurgical Design Institute, and Fushun Environmental
Protection Science Institute, respectively, with the assistance from the project consultant, Post
Buckley International, Inc. The Chinese version of the EIA report for the project has been approved
by the State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) in September 1998.
1.2    Basis for the EA Report
The basis for the EIA reports and EAPs is:
* Terms of Reference (TOR) for Environmental Impact Assessment on World Bank Financed
Liaoning Urban Transport Project, Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office
(LUCRPO), (Nov. 1996);
1



Liaoning Urban Transport ProJect                                           EA Summary
* Appraisal of the Terms of Reference for Environmental Impact Assessment on World Bank
Financed Liaoning Urban Transport Project, NEPA Evaluation Centre, No.[1996]139;
*  Review Comments on Appraisal of the Terms of Reference for Environmental Impact Assessment
on World Bank Financed Liaoning Urban Transport Project, NEPA, EMC No. [19961287;
*  Notice on Strengthening management on Environmental Assessment for Construction Projects
Loaned by Intemational Financial Organizations, NEPA, SPC, the Ministry Finance and the
People's Bank of China, EM No. [1993]324;
*  Environmental Impact Assessment Specifications for Highway Construction, JTJOOS-96, the
Ministry of Communications, (July, 1996);
*  Operation Directive 4.01: Environment Assessment, the World Bank; and
* Feasibility study reports and transportation planning reports for Shenyang, Anshan, and Fushun,
prepared by Shenyang Municipal Planning Design Institute, Beijing Municipal Engineering
Design and Research and Design Institute and Fushun Municipal Design Institute, respectively,
between 1995 to 1996.
1.3   Scope of Assessment and Applicable Standards
As specified in the project TOR, the environment assessment covered the following areas in the three
project cities:
*  Motor vehicle exhaust emissions:  500 m of both sides of the project roads;
*  Traffic noise:                 100 m laterally of both sides of the project roads and 50 m
vertically for the first row of the buildings from the roads;
*  Surface water:                 water bodies to be affected by the project;
*  Vibration;                     50 m of both sides of the project roads;
*  Sunshine obstruction:          buildings  immediately  adjacent  to  project  viaduct,
interchanges and overpasses;
*  Land use:                      100 m of both sides of the project roads;
*  Soil and vegetation:           100 m of both sides of the project roads; and
*  Socio-economic environment:    300 m of both sides of the project roads.
Key environmental discharge/emission and ambient enviromnent quality standards used in this EA
includes:
*  Ambient Air Quality Standards, GB 3095-1996;
*  Environmental Noise Standards for Urban Areas, GB 3096-93;
*  Standards for Noise at Boundaries of Construction Sites, GB 12523-90;
*  Environmental Vibration Standards for Urban Areas, GB 10070-88;
*  Architecture Design Criteria for Sunshine Obstruction Assessment;
*  Surface Water Environmental Quality Standards, GB 3838-88; and
*  Standards for Wastewater Discharge and Air Emissions in Liaoning Province, DB21-60-89.
2.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Each subproject in LUIP contains five major components: public transportation, transportation
management, infrastructure development, road maintenance and institutional strengthening. The EA
focused on those components which were deemed to have potential environmental impacts to the
surrounding natural and/or soci-economic environment. These components are briefly described in the
following table and shown in Figures 2, 3 and 4.
2



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                                EA Summary
Table I Key Project Components with Potential Environmental Impacts
Components  Shenyang                       Anshan               Fushun
Road         Jianshe-Nanwu viaduct:        Lishan St. viaduct:  Hunhenan Rd:
Construction   3.768 km L*, 18 m W*;       621 m L, 17.5-21 m W    24.8 km L, 18.5-42.6 m W
Beiyi-Lianhe Road:           Xiaodongmen viaduct:   Xifuping Rd:
10.6km, L25-40mW;           224mL,17.5 mW         1000mL,15 mW
Heping Road viaduct:
256 m L, 17.5 m W;
Minsheng Rd. viaduct:
315 m L, 17.5-25 m W
Road and     Pangjiang Street:            Jianguo Road          Wugong St.
Bridge       2.1 km, L.46mW                Widening:            1660 m L, 23-30 m W
Improvement  Zhulin Corridor:              26.5 m L, 40 m W     Gebu South Interchange
1.06 km L, 40 m W;                                Jiangjun South Interchange
Nanjiang Corridor:                                Xinhua South Interchange
1.77 km L, 40 m W;
Sanjing Street
2.5 km L, 30 m W
Heilongjiang Street
2.5 km L, 30 mW;
New Bridge    Gonghe Interchange:          Laodong Road Bridge:  Hunhe South Interchange
& Interchange  3-layer,                   216 m L, 36.5 m W;    partial-directional
partial-directional;         Wuyi Rd. Interchange:   Heping South Interchange
Gonghe Bridge:               3-layer, all-directional,  all-directional
280 m L, 25 m W              3274 m L, 17-25 m W;  Guchengzi Bridge
Donganshan underpass:  630 m L, 20 m W
51.6 m L, 36 m W     Guchengzi Interchange
Belt Railway         all-directional
Underpass:           Changchun South Interchange
51.6 m L, 25 m W.    partial-directional
Wanxin South Interchange
partial-directional
Wanxin Bridge
391 mL, 36mW
Missing Link   Shenzhou Road
Connection    1.0 krn L,40 m W
Tianguang Road:
1.4 kn L, 30 mW
Bus          Xiaohantun Bus Repair
Maintenance   Overhaul: 500 units/yr.
Repair: 500 units/yr.
1010 employees.
Bus          Dadongmen Terminal:
Terminal      I storey  above  ground  as
terminal & 2 under as parking
for 142 units;
South Railway Station Terminal:
I storey above ground as bus
termiinal and 2 under for parking
for a total of 400 units.
*L: long, W: wide.
In addition, LUTP also contains other components with little or none direct environmental impacts.
These components include: new and adjusted bus routes, bus/motor vehicle (MV)/non-motor vehicle
(NMV) only roads, one-way streets, intersection channelization, railway at-grade crossing
improvement, road maintenance, equipment procurement for bus inspection and repair, traffic
management, and technical assistance and training.
3



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                               EA Summary
3.  DESCRIPTION OF THE EXISTING ENVIRONMENT
3.1    Physical Setting
The following table outlines the general information on the physical setting of the three project cities:
Table 2 Physical Seting of the Project
Parameter  Shenyang                   Anshan                     Fushun
Location    4 1011 '51 "-43002'13"N   40°-410N                   41°41'10"-42038'32" N
120025'09'"-123048'24"E    1220- 1230 E              123039'42"-125°28'58"E
Temperature  Annual average: 7.9°C     Annual average: 10.7°C    Annual avrage: 7.2°
Max. monthW average: 23.6°C  Max monthly average 23.60C  Max monthly average 22.6°C
Min. monthly average: -8.5°C   Min monthly average -5.4°C   Mi monthly average -] 3°C
Precipitation  Annual: 880.7 nim       Annual 929.4 mm           Annual 867.6 nun
Wind       South/Southwest  prevailing  Northeast (11.9%)        Northeast
direction    (23%)                     Southwest (10.8%)
Wind       Annual average: 3.9 m/s     Annual average: 2.6 m/s   Annual average: 2.0 m/s
Speed      Max. daily: 5.1 m/s                                   Max. 15 m/s
Sunshine    Annual: 1664.57 hrs.       Annual: 2617 hrs.         Annual 2425 hrs.
Hours      Longest daily: 8.6 hr.(May)
Shortest daily: 5.0 hr.(Dec)
Humidity   53% (Apr) - 79% (Aug)       Annual average: 63%       Annual average 69%
3.2    Air Quality
An air quality monitoring program was conducted in the three project cities to demonstrate the
existing ambient air quality. As air quality can be very different in the space-heating and non space-
heating seasons, the monitoring program covered both seasons.
The air monitoring program was carried out in a total of 25 monitoring stations, 11 in Shenyang, 8 in
Anshan and 6 in Fushun. These monitoring stations were selected in residential, schools, hospitals,
commercial and industrial areas along the project corridors in an attempt to reflect of the existing
ambient air quality in the project areas. The focus of the monitoring was on environmental sensitive
receptors. The specific locations of these monitoring stations are shown in Figures 2 to 4.
The monitoring results indicate that environmental air pollution was in general worse in the space-
heating season than the non space-heating season. The only exception was in Anshan where
concentrations of NOx and CO in the space-heating season were slightly lower than those in the non
space-heating season. The results also appear to show that the air pollution in the space-heating
season is primarily a result of coal combustion in large number of boilers and stoves across the cities,
whereas that in the non space-heating season was mainly due to motor vehicle exhaust.
More specifically, the monitoring results indicate:
*  NMHC: Daily average NMHC concentrations exceeded the standard of 1.0 mg/rn3 in all
monitoring stations of the three cities in the space-heating season, with the maximum
concentration recorded exceeded the standard by a factor of 3.12. During the non space-heating
season, daily average concentrations in Anshan and Fushun all exceeded the standard with the
maximum concentration exceeded the standard by a factor of 6.77. In Shenyang, 73.3% of the
daily average concentrations exceeded the standard, with the maximum, by a factor of 1.1 1.
*  NOx: Of all daily average readings from the three cities during the space-heating season, 71.78%
exceeded the standard of 0.10 mg/m3. Some stations, including 4 in Shenyang, I in Anshan and 2
in Fushun, had all their readings exceeded the standard in the same season, by a factor of up to
4



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                              EA Summary
5.92. In the non space-heating season, only I station in Anshan had all its daily average readings
exceeded the standard. For the rest of the monitoring stations, about 28% of the readings on
average exceeded the standard up to a maximum of 3.8 times.
*  CO:.During the space-heating season, 32.36% of the daily average readings " om the three project
cities exceeded the standard of 4.00 mg/m3, by a factor of up to 3.26. During the non space-
heating season, 18% of the readings in Anshan, 20% in Shenyang and 14% in Fushun exceeded
the standard.
* The general trend for the hourly peak concentrations for the air pollutants in the three cities was
similar to that of the average concentrations, as discussed above. With a very few exception, the
readings in the spaie-heating season were consistently higher than those recorded in the non
space-heating season. Consequently, a higher number of readings in each monitoring station in
the space-heating season exceeded the hourly standard by, typically, a larger factor than those in
the non space-heating season.
3.3    Noise and Vibration
Noise
A noise monitoring program was conducted to describe the quality of the acoustic environrment in the
project areas in the three cities. The monitoring program was divided in two time frames: day (7 am -
10 pm) and night (10 pm - 7 am), to reflect distinct acoustic natures and standards in the timeframes.
A total of 31 noise monitoring stations were set up for the monitoring program. They were mostly
located in sensitive areas such as schools, hospitals and residential areas along the proposed project
roads. The locations of these stations are shown in Figures 2, 3 and 4.
The following table summarizes the noise monitoring results:
Table 3 Noise Levels Exceeded Standards
Shenyang          Anshan             Fushun
No. of Stations                           10                16                 5
Day       No. Exceeded Standard           4                 11                 3
_____________________         18%               68%               60%
Exceeded by (dB(A))          1.4-6.6           0.6-17.9          4.0-20.0
Night     No. Exceeded Standard           10                16                 4
%                             100%              100%              80%
Exceeded by (dB(A))          2.8-18.9          5.5-15.3          2.0-24.0
The above table shows that most existing noise levels along the project roads exceeded standards of
70 dB(A) (day time) and 55 dB(A) (night time), particularly at night, indicating a poor acoustic
environment under the existing conditions. Of all the noise readings, 96% recorded at night time
exceeded the standard by 2-24 dB(A) while 58% recorded at the day time exceeded the standard, by
0.6-20 dB(A).
Vibration
Monitoring for the existing vibration was carried out near the proposed viaduct and interchanges,
including 5 locations in Shenyang and I in Anshan. The locations are shown in Figures 2 and 3.
Of all 6 monitoring sites, only that at the Shenyang Railway High School exceeded the standard of 75
dB (day time) by 2.2 dB. In all other locations, the readings were below the standards for day time
and night time (72 dB), indicating a good quality in terms of environmental vibration under the
current conditions.
s



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                             EA Summary
3.4    Surface Water
The Fushun subproject of LLTTP will be located immediately along side of the Hunhe River for nearly
25 km and cross the river in 2 locations, the Anshan subproject will cross the Nanshahe River and the
Shenyang subproject will cross the North Canal. Apparently, the Hunhe River is the most vulnerable
surface water body exposed to potential impacts created by the implementation of this project.
The Hunhe River within the project area is a shallow stream with an average flow of 2.78 m3/s at an
average depth of 0.32 m. While regulated by an enormous reservoir upstream, the flow still fluctuates
from a dry river bed in the winter up to 25 m3/s at 0.8 m depth in the summer. During 300 year floods,
surface water levels of the river are predicted to rise up to 2.3 to 3.3 m above the surface payment of
three lowest sections of the Hunhenan Road. In the summer of 1995 the river flooded these sections
and interrupted the traffi&'for 4 days.
The results of water quality monitoring in the rivers show a moderate to serious pollution by various
contaminants. All three rivers receive industrial and/or domestic wastewater discharges. For example,
the North Canal receives 45,000 ton sewage daily although an interception plan is under way to stop
the discharge and to turn the river to a tourist attraction. As a result of the discharges, except pH and
dissolved oxygen which is relatively easy to replenish in shallow water bodies, all other major surface
water quality parameters exceeded the standards, including suspended solids (SS), chemical oxygen
demands (COD), oil and grease (O&G) and ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) in both dry and rain seasons.
Except limited non-direct contact recreation of the central section of the Hunhe River, there is little
functional use of the above surface water bodies. There is no significant fisheries resource in the
rivers due to the severer pollution.
3.5    Sunshine
Based on the locations of elevated viaduct and interchanges, several representative sections of the
project roads were selected to measure the existing sunshine duration. These include 6 locations in
Shenyang and 7 in Anshan. The exact locations of these sites are shown in Figures 2 and 3.
The sunshine duration in the project area is about 2541-2547 hours/year, equivalent to a sunshine
percentage of 58%. In the least sunshine month of December, the sunshine duration is 155-164
hours/month, or 55-57%. This is above the average sunshine duration in China.
The sunshine measurement in the above project areas shows that all results met the applicable
standards of 1-2 hours for residential buildings, etc., 34 hours for schools and offices and 5-6 hours
for day care centres, nursery, etc.
3.6    Soil and Vegetation
There is little bare soil in the built up areas in Shenyang. Most of the project areas in these cities are
utilized for buildings and roads, although in between there are parks, trees and lawns. Agricultural
land and/or river banks exist within the Anshan and Fushun subproject areas. Within 100 m of the
project road in Fushun, there are 3512 mu (15 mu to a hectare) cultivated land and 80 mu of water/fish
pond, and in Anshan, about 67 mu. Some land near the road and at the river bank is not cultivated and
is covered in general by wild grass, bushes and other vegetation.
The primary vegetation in the urban areas of the project cities is trees such as willow, cypress, poplar,
elm, etc. and lawns. Project site investigation showed the following vegetation inventory along the
project roads:
Shenyang: 12,112 trees and bushes, 69,836 m2 of lawns, and 6765 m2 of green barrier;
6



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                              EA Summary
*  Anshan:   7130 trees and bushes and 22,295 m2 green areas; and
*  Fushun:   20,375 trees, 135,833 bushes and 113,440 m2 green areas.
3.7    Socio-economic Environment
Key indicators of the socio-economic environment and communities within the project cities and
corridors are summarized in the following table:
Table 4 Key Sodo-ecnommiC and Commnty Indicators
Indicators                              Shenyang           Anshan            Fushun
City-wide
Urban population of city (million)*       4.15       ]       1.66              1.46
GDP of city (RMB, billion\*               68.3       |      35.0              15.2
Average employee income (RMB/person)*    4785 (annual)   5129 (annual)    4834 (annual)
Project Area
No. of industrial enterprises              20                15                34
No. of large shops and mnarkets            17                 9
No. of hotels                               9                 6                 4
No. of other major services                14                5
No. of hospitals                            3                 6
No. of schooL including day care centres   15                13
No. of institutions                        17                 2                 9
Affected population                      160,180           35,980             8866
No. of residential buildings               648               184               49
* 1995 statistics, the last year such statistics are available
There is no known archaeological site or significant heritage resources within the affected areas of
LUTP.
4.  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
4.1    Air Quality
4.1.1  Impact Assessment
Construction Phase
The primary air emissions during project construction will be airborne dust from site preparation such
as earth work and demolition, construction truck movement, bulk materials storage and emissions
from pug mills. An investigation conducted during a similar road construction project in a project city
showed that airbome dust from these sources could affect areas up to 40 m leeward. Other studies
have showed that contaminated areas from pug mill emissions could reach 150 metres leeward.
Beyond these limits, the impact of these airbome pollutants is expected to be insignificant.
Operation Phase
To predict impacts of the project to ambient air quality in the three project cities, two computer
models were used. One is US EPA Mobile 5, used for predicting emission factors for various types of
motor vehicles served in the fleets and CALINE 3, used for modelling the dispersion of motor vehicle
emission within 500 m on both sides of the project roads. Both models have been modified according
to the specific vehicular fleet attributes of, fuels used in, and topographic characteristics of the project
cities. The modelling predicted daily and peak hour concentrations in the affected areas for carbon
monoxide (CO), nitrogen oxides (NOx), hydrocarbons (HC), and nitrogen dioxide (NO2), for both
scenarios of with and without the project. Concentrations of these pollutants in selected sensitive
receptors were also modelled.
7



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                            EA Summary
The result of the modelling may be briefly summarized as follows:
NOx - Modelling shows that peak hour and daily average NOx concentrations in most cases exceed
their respective standards of 0.15 mg/m3 and 0.10 mg/m3 in Shenyang and Anshan. In Fushun, all but
two are predicted to be below the standards. The concentrations tend to be the highest in streets which
orientated in parallel with the direction of the prevailing wind. The area where the concentration
exceeds the standard is predicted to be up to 150 m from the road curb.
CO - Slightly over half of the predictions indicate that CO concentrations exceed the perk hour
standard of 10 mg/m3 and the daily average standard of 4.0 mg/m3. With a very few exceptions, those
predicted for both Anshan and Fushun are all below the standards in all wind directions modelled. The
area where the concentration exceeds the standard is predicted up to 60 m from the road curb.
HC - Compared with NOx and CO, impacts of HC emissions appear to be the lowest. With the
exception of one location in Fushun where peak hour HC concentration exceeds the standard of 3.0
mg/m3, all other modelling results are below both the peak hour standard and the daily average
standard which is 1.0 mg/m3.
N02 - A limited assessment was made of airborne contaminant NO2 by simply assuming NO2 is 10%
of NOx. With this assumption, all predicted NO2 concentrations will be below the standards of 0.12
mg/m3 for the perk hour and 0.08 mg/m3 for the daily average.
When compared the scenario of with the project with that without, the modelling shows that in about
half the cases in Shenyang and Anshan, the airborne pollutants are predicted to be higher with the
project than without, while the reminders, lower. In Fushun, on the other hand, all airborne
contaminant concentrations are predicted to be consistently lower with the project than without. Two
factors play a contradicting role in determining motor vehicle air emission and thus airborne
contaminant concentrations: Increased motor vehicle traffic along the project roads would increase air
emissions and contaminant concentrations, whereas increased motor vehicle speed and, particularly
reduced congestion and the need for accelerating/decelerating, would decrease the emission from each
motor vehicle. Combined effects of both factors result in that about half of the project roads in
Shenyang and Anshan and all projects roads in Fushun will benefit from reduced air contamination.
The benefit of improved air quality will also be extended to other areas of the project cities. With the
implementation of LUTP, motor vehicles will be attracted to the project roads with much better road
conditions, traffic congestion in city centres will be relieved and NV speed, increased. From a city
perspective, air quality will improve, as shown in the following table.
Table 5 Total Motor Vehiele Alir Emission Comparison (Year 2010)
Scenario     Parameter                  Shenyang         Anshan            Fushun
With         Average MV speed (kni/h)     29.8             38.5             28.1
Project      HC (t/h)                     2.20             1.73             1.48
CO (t/h)                    15.47            10.04             9.08
NOx (t/h)                    0.76             0.92             0.67
Without      Average MV speed (km/h)      21.4             36.0             18.0
project      HC (t/h)                     2.69             2.21             1.95
CO (t/h)                     18.78           13.10             11.80
NOx (t/h)                    0.79             1.12             0.72
The assessment of the bus overhaul and repair facilities indicates that all airborne contaminants from
paint spraying, engine test runs and boiler emissions will be under the respective standards. However,
the assessment for the bus terninals in Shenyang shows that total suspended particulate (TSP,
standard: 0.30 mg/m3 daily average), sulphur dioxide (SO2, standards: 0.15 mg/m3 daily average and
8-



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                          EA Summary
0.5 mg/m3 hourly peak), NOx, CO and HC concentrations will all exceed their respective standards,
by a factor of 0.98 to 2.29.
4.1.2 Mitigation and Residual Impacts
The following mitigation measures will be taken:
Construction Phase
* Truck off site daily all construction waste;
* Separate viaduct construction sites with slab or plastic fibre of 2-3 m high;
* Water spray 3 times a day of construction sites and dusty truck roads near sensitive receptors;
* Cover with canvas loose materials while transported by trucks; and
* Locate pug mills off site in the suburb areas and install dust control cyclones at the mills.
Operation Phase
* Promote public transportation and separate MV and NMV;
* Use clean fuels (liquefied petroleum gas and natural gas) in 50% buses and taxi by 2010, and
phase out leaded gasoline completely by year 2000;
* Establish and implement an MV inspection and maintenance program;
*  Install exhaust cleaning facilities in 50% MV by 2010;
* Collect MV pollution tariff to discourage the use of MV;
* Eliminate 20-25% of old, heavily polluting MV by 2001;
* Establish and implement a routine and long term environmental monitoring program;
* Develop and implement a Motor Vehicle Emission Control Strategy (MVECS). As the increase in
the motor vehicle fleet will eventually reduce the MV average speed and create traffic congestion,
the environmental benefits brought by LUTP will be offset over the long term. The development
of MVECS is to address the fundament,l cause of the long term air emissions from MV and thus
to achieve sustained improvement of air quality in the project cities. A brief outline of MVECS
development has been prepared by LUCRPO which is the agency with overall responsibility for
LUTP. MVECS will be developed and camied out during project implementation.
Residual Impacts
With the mitigation measures during construction, the residual impact of airborne dust will be limited
to small areas immediately adjacent to truck roads and construction and materials storage sites. The
impact will be terminated shortly after the end of truck traffic and on-site construction activities.
The mitigation measures during operation phase will further reduce the MV emissions. More
specifically, for the city of Shenyang for example, CO emission will reduce by 46%, NOx, 34. 1% and
HC, 48.9% with implementation of the mitigation measures.
4.2    Noise and Vibration
4.2.1 Impact Assessment
Construction Phase
Noise sources during the construction phase will be mainly from construction machinery. For the
most commonly used machines, noise levels 50 meter from the operating machines will exceed the
night time noise standard of 55 dB by I to 19 dB. Most except a few will not exceed the day time
construction site boundary standard of 75 dB when measured from this distance. This noise will
9



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                             EA Summary
impact mostly construction workers and to residents living within 50-100 metres from the
construction sites and limited to the time when the machines are in operation.
Operation Phase
The US FHWA Mode was used for predicting traffic noise during operation of the project. The model
was modified according to local conditions such as those related to road surface, nature of the
vehicular fleets and urban topography. An analogical analysis was used for predicting vibration
during operation. Assessment was made for scenarios of with the project and without for year 2010.
With a few exceptions, noise levels after the project completion will exceed both the day and night
time standards in all road sections and other project facilities (overhaul and repair facility, and bus
terminals) covered by the tnodelling for the three project cities. Noise levels are predicted to exceed
the day time standard by 6-25 dB in Shenyang, 0.2 to 9 dB in Anshan and 7 to 11 dB in Fushun. The
exceedance over the standard is expected in general to be worse at night when noise levels will exceed
the night time standard by 7 to 29 dB in Shenyang, 3 to 13 dB in Anshan and 12 to 19 dB in Fushun.
Since more stringent standards of 55 dB for day time and 45 dB for night are applied to sensitive
receptors such as hospitals, schools and day care centres, noise level exceedance are higher at these
facilities. For most sensitive receptors, noise levels are predicted to be over 20 dB above the day time
and night time standards, which will seriously affect the operation of the facilities and/or comfort or
even the health of the people using the facilities.
When comparing the scenario of with the project with that of without, the modelling shows that along
the existing roads, noise levels will be generally higher with the project than without. This is due to
the increased traffic and motor vehicle speeds on these roads when the project is implemented.
A limited modelling was also conducted for selected road sections not included in LUTP in order to
see the impact of the project on the adjacent city roads. One such analysis in Anshan shows that when
the project is implemented, traffic noise levels from nearby road sections will decrease by 2.1 dB at
day time and 1.6 dB at night, respectively, compared with the same sections without the project. Such
decrease represents an environmental benefit or positive impact in terms of reduced noise levels as
traffic in many roads are expected to be attracted to the project roads once they are built.
The prediction of vibration from elevated viaduct in Shenyang shows that vibration will slightly
exceed the standard during day time when there is a high volume of heavy duty vehicle traffic.
Vibration will be below the standard at night as traffic reduces. The same analysis made in Anshan
shows that vibration in both day and night time will not exceed the standards.
4.2.2 Mitigation and Residual Impacts
Construction Phase
The following noise mitigation measures will be taken during the construction phase:
*  Close the viaduct construction sites with slab or plastic fibre cloth of 2-3 metre high;
*  Strictly prohibit any construction activities between 10 pm and 7 am the next day;
*  Use low noise/vibration machines and temporary noise shielding and absorption where possible
(e.g. stationary machines);
*  Plan properly construction activities by contractors and keep noise operations away from sensitive
receptors as much as possible;
*  Use pre-cast or pre-fabricated structure members off site where possible;
*  Implement a noise monitoring program at the construction sites to promptly monitor and react to
noise incidents.
10



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                          EA Summary
Operation Phase
* Plan and zone properly urban development by keeping the first row of the buildings at least 20 m
away from the road curb and incorporate vegetation buffer where possible.
* Design properly the first row of buildings through layout design to place less noise sensitive space
at the road side;
* Build sound absorption barrier (SAB) on Nanwu Road viaduct in Shenyang, which will be
installed with a transparent material and 5 m high in 3 100 m sections against sensitive receptors.
* Install double-glazed windows in the first rows of the sensitive facilities. In order for this measure
to be effective year roind, window mounted air conditioning units will be installed in these space
at the same time. In total, there will be 51,600 m2 of windows will be replaced with double glazed
windows and 10,447 air conditioning units installed in Shenyang, 15,282 m2 double glazed
windows and 5094 air conditioning units in Anshan, and 3894 m2 double glazed windows and
1298 air conditioning units in Fushun.
* Compensate residential household at which noise levels will exceed the standards but no direct
mitigation measures are to be taken. This measure will be adopted in Fushun. A total of 1068
households will be compensated at 800-1000 per household.
= Regulate and enhance traffic management, by such measures as vehicle inspection, homing
restriction, speed limit enforcement, and heavy duty vehicle traffic control;
* Maintain periodically the roads, including noise control facilities; and
- Establish and implement a long-term noise monitoring program to evaluate the noise prediction
and effectiveness of noise mitigation measures and to prepare for further actions where necessary.
Residual Impact
With mitigation measure properly implemented, noise impacts during the construction phase will
disappear at night and reduce to a minimum and acceptable level during the day.
When air conditioning units are installed, it becomes possible to keep the windows closed year round.
With-double glazed windows closed, the indoor noise level which is the real impacts to residents and
school, hospital and day care centre occupants, will be reduced by about 25 dB from the current levels
to mostly 50-60 dB during the day and 40-50 dB at night, below the respective standards. However, in
a few sections, such as Gonghe Interchange and Fanxing Square Interchange in Shenyang, the noise
levels are still predicted to exceed the standard by 2.8 to 4.6 dB during the day and 6.8 to 9.3 at night.
4.3   Surface Water
4.3.1 Impact Assessment
The assessment for project impacts to surface water included two components: impact on water
quality and hydrology covering the Hunhe River in Fushun, North Canal in Shenyang and Nanshahe
in Anshan. Surface runoff was considered the main source of wastewater discharge from the project in
these rivers and the mass balance approach was taken for impact assessment of surface runoff. For the
impact assessment on hydrology, historical hydrology data were used as an analytical tool.
Construction Phase
There will be two streams of effluent which will impact water quality in the rivers during
construction. Surface runoff flowing over disturbed soil during road construction will be a main
source of suspended solids (SS) which will enter the rivers during rainfalls especially heavy storms.
There might be some oils in the surface runoff, resulting from construction equipment and vehicles
11



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                             EA Summary
leaking and washing. This impact is particularly of concern in Fushun as the road construction will be
immediately adjacent to the river. Some sections of the Hunhe River have virtually no any barrier to
the roads, and therefore, little detention time available before the surface runoff reaches the river. The
impact to the river will include increased SS, but it will be limited to the areas immediately adjacent
to the road. SS will settle and separated from water, and impact dissipated as the surface runoff travels
further downstream and/or mixed with the main water body in the river.
Another stream of the effluent is domestic sewage from construction camps. According to the
construction plan, there will be about 80 construction workers camping near the Nanshahe River in
Anshan. This camp will generate some 2.3 m3/d of domestic sewage which is expected to be
discharged directly to the Nanshahe River. According to statistics from relevant Anshan agencies,
daily average discharge of industrial and municipal wastewater to the Nanshahe River near the project
area is about 341 m3/d& Apparently, there will be an insignificant (<1%) incremental increase in the
impact of sewage discharge to the river from the construction camp.
The in-water construction activities for bridges will disturb the river bed, and thus cause re-
suspending of the sediments. Such impacts will be temporary in time and limited to small areas
immediately downstream.
There are two water intakes in the Hunhe River close to the middle section of the Hunhenan Road in
Fushun. The Yongnan intake is near a section for which only pavement maintenance is scheduled in
this project. The other, Steel Works intake is a backup facility and is not in active operation most of
the time. In addition, as this intake is about 50 m into the river, any contaminants, primarily solids in
surface runoff from the construction site will be diluted and/or separated from water at this location.
Operation Phase
Surface runoff from precipitation will carry with it contaminants, primarily SS and oil & grease
picking up from the road surface, before it flows into the river over land or via storm sewers.
Assuming a 10 minute storm, the surface runoff in two locations to the Hunhe River in Fushun would
increase SS by 0.3-0.6 mg/L or about 0.1-0.3% and COD by 0.9-1.1 mg/L or about 1.5-2.9%. The
impact of surface runoff to the rivers in Shenyang and Anshan is similar.
Fushun has numerous refineries and petrochemical plants and the project road, Hunhenan Road has 13
gas stations consuming 100 ton of gas every day. Gasoline, diesel and, to a lesser extent, other
chemicals and hazardous materials, are expected to be transported via tanker trucks on the Hunhenan
Road. Although the probability of a catastrophic accidental spill of the fuel transportation trucks is
very small (none yet since 1949 according to the local police), it would have server consequence if it
does happen. Assuming an accident leading to a spill of the half of the fuel tank in a truck on the
Hunhenan Road, it would increase oil in the Hunhe River to 4,178 mg/L at the accident location and
3,715 mg/L 14 km downstream. The actual oil concentration would be much higher as the above
calculation was based on complete and instant mixing with the entire river flow. Not only a very large
area of the water body would bc seriously polluted, cleanup of the pollution would also be extremely
difficult requiring specifilized skills and equipment which may not be readily available.
Three sections of the Hunhenan Road in Fushun, under the Xinhua Bridge, Yongan Bridge and
Jiangjun Bridge, respectively have elevations only I to 1.8 m above the normal water elevation in the
Hunhe River. These sections will be flooded and traffic on the road interrupted during floods as
shown in the following table.
12



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                              EA Summary
Table 6 Hunhenan Road Flooding and Trafflc Iiiterruption
Xinhua Bridge    Yongan Bridge   Jiangjun Bridge
50 year flood    Water depth over road     0.77             0.75             0.36
Payment (m)
Flooding road section        150             200              50
Length (m)
Flooding and traffic         6                6                4
Interruption time (h)
100 year flood   Water depth over road     2.29             2.22             1.77
Payment (m)
Flooding road section       350              350              100
Length (m)
Flooaing and traffic         24               24              12
Interruption time (h)
300 year flood   Water depth over road     2.78             2.71             2.17
Payment (m)
Flooding road section       400              500              300
Length (m)
Flooding and traffic         96               72              48
Interruption time (h)
4.3.2 Mitigation and Residual Impacts
Construction Phase
*  Discharge where possible all domestic sewage from construction camps into the municipal sewer
system;
*  Intercept surface runoff before it reaches surface water bodies and divert it to the storm sewer;
*  Vegetate the river bank where there is space near the Hunhenan Road in Fushun so that lawn may
filter out solids from surface runoff before it flows to the river;
*  Minimize the time for in-water construction activities for bridge piers to minimize the impacted
period;
*  Maintain properly all construction equipment and vehicles to minimize oil leaking and equipment
malfunction.
Operation Phase
*  Design properly catch basins and storm sewer system, especially near the surface water bodies;
*  Regulate and control transportation of hazardous materials;
*  Educate drivers of fuel and hazardous chemicals trucks to handle properly emergency situations;
*  Allow gas and diesel tank trucks, as well as trucks for other hazardous materials to use only the
upper deck of the Hunhenan Road where possible, as all gas stations are along this side. This
would allow some reaction time in an event of an accidental spill from these trucks and thus
reduce the risk of river contamination;
* Develop and implement an emergency response system in each city, but particularly in- Fushun.
The program will have the following key components:
-  Responsible agencies: Environmental Protection Bureau, Fire Department, Transportation
Bureau, Public Security Bureau (the police), Municipal Engineering Company which is
responsible for city sewer construction and maintenance, and the municipal government as the
senior decision-making body;
-  Staffing: there will be emergency staff on duty 24 hours a day although staff may share other
responsibilities while on duty within their organizations such as the fire department or
municipal engineering company;
13



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                               EA Summary
- Training: emergency team members will receive training on proper handling of accidental
spills of hazardous materials;
- Equipment and materials: emergency handling equipment and materials such as berms, saw
dust, other absorbing materials, catch basin covers, etc. will be stored. For prompt response
and reaction to a spill, especially at the lower deck of the Hunhenan Road which available
reaction time is very limited, these materials will be stored on site in small 2 cabins in middle
section of the road;
-  Contaminated materials disposal: plans will be developed to dispose safely and properly of
materials used to cleanup of the spills, such as incineration; and
-  Cleanup: if accident happens and spills find their way to the river, various methods may be
used to cleanup the oil, including the use of plastic foam, straw, dry-ice, paraffin, etc.
In an event of the Hunhenan Road flooding, the traffic on the road will be diverted and other
temporary traffic management and control measures may be taken to minimize the impact of flooding
on traffic. There is little that can be done to actually prevent the flood without major infrastructure
investments.
Residual Impacts
When intercepted and diverted, domestic sewage and contaminated surface runoff will not have
impacts on water quality of the rivers. The risk of accidental spills and contamination of the rivers,
particularly the Hunhe River in Fushun, how ever small, will still exist. The appropriate emergency
response plan will minimize the risk of river contamination if spills occur. The flooding of middle
sections of the Hunhenan Road cannot be avoided under the current flood control conditions when
there is a 50 year flood or bigger and the lower sections will be flooded. The effect of the flooding to
traffic, however, will be limited from a few hours to a few days.
4.4    Sunshine
4.4.1 Impact Assessment
Full-window sunshine time was selected as a criterion for the assessment of impacts on sunshine by
the project. As the national and local environmental standards do not include anything for sunshine
obstruction, the standards (1-2 hr. for residential, office, recreational facilities, etc., 3-4 hr. for
schools, general workshop, etc. and 5-6 hr. for nursery, day care centre, etc.) in state building design
codes were adopted as the assessment standards.
Except for the temporary separation slab or plastic fibre used for air emission and noise control during
viaduct and interchange construction, there is no sunshine obstruction during the construction phase.
The elevated viaduct and interchanges in Shenyang and Anshan will result in reduced sunshine hours.
The reduction is about 0.1-0.6 hours in Anshan and 1.2-2.9 hours in Shenyang, with the worst
occurring at the first floor of the buildings. The 4h floor or higher will not be affected at any
circumstance in terms of their sunshine hours received. The affected buildings are mostly residential
and commercial in Anshan and residential, shops, restaurants, and day care centres in Shenyang.
While the sunshine time reduced affecting about 1500 residents in Shenyang and some more in
Anshan, the predicted sunshine hours after project implementation will still meet the standards. The
two day cares in Shenyang will not be affected as one will be resettled and other is 30 m away from
the project.
14



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                               EA Summary
4.4.2   Mitigation and Residual Impacts
*  Operate construction machines and keep materials storage as far away from buildings as possible;
* Design properly the first-row buildings including choosing proper room azimuth, increasing the
vertical height of windows, raising the window bottoms and selecting the proper room layout;
* Zone properly and avoid the sunshine obstruction to sensitive facilities for future development.
The sunshine obstruction to the existing buildings on the first row to the viaduct and interchanges will
be inevitable. Future development will prevent this type of impact with proper planning, zoning and
design.
4.5    Soil and Vegetation
4.5.1 Impact Assessment
Both Anshan and Fushun will lose some agricultural land permanently to the project roads, while
Shenyang will construct the project entirely on built-up areas. The total farm land and vegetated areas
lost to the project will be 44,350 m2 in Anshan and 186,800 m2 in Fushun. The land lost cannot be
avoided, replaced, nor mitigated. The farmers and land owners will be compensated for the land they
lose, instead.
The impact of LUTP on vegetation is summerized in the following table:
Shenyang              Anshan               Fushun
Tree                               12,252               7130                 11,741
Lawn/green (m')                   69,836               103,231               22,000
Green barriers/bushes (me)         5,645                22,295                720
Farm land (m')                                          44,350              186,800*
* including water/fish pond area
4.5.2 Mitigation and Residual Impacts
*  Require contractors to protect as much as possible trees, lawn and other form of vegetation in the
project areas;
*  Compensate the lost trees and green areas by re-planting and re-landscaping. The plant effort is
summarized as:
Table 8 New Trees aiind Green Areas and Residual Impact on Vegetatfon
7___________________________________       Shenyang           Anshan           Fushun
New trees                                   26,870            10,442           17,783
New green areas (m)                         303,509          225,851           22,000
Net Loss/Increase of Trees (-/+)            +14,618          +51,563           +6042
Net loss/increase of green areas (-/+ m"   +228,028        by year 2011*         0
* combined trees and green areas with each tree accounting for 16 ma of green area.
The above table shows that there will be net increase in number of trees and green areas in all three
project cities through tree planting and greens restoration. This is another environmental benefit and
enhancement brought by the implementation of the project. In addition, newly planted trees and green
areas will be better landscaped to created improved road side and neighbourhood green space than the
existing greens.
'5



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                               EA Summary
4.6    Socio-econoDic Impacts
4.6.1  Impact Assessment
The assessment of socio-economic impacts of the project was primarily completed through site survey
and statistical analysis. Areas and communities covered in the assessment basically were those within
200 m on both sides of the project roads.
Construction Phase
The socio-economic and community impact of the project during the construction phase results
mainly from the closure of project roads for construction and occupation of farm of land. Specifically,
the impact will primarilykbe to:
Pedestrians and Cyclists - Pedestrians and cyclists will have to be detoured during road closure or
semi-closure for construction and/or use temporary passage ways. By Shenyang's estimate, the
pedestrians and cyclists will be delayed by 20 minutes to 2 hours per trip due to the road closure,
which will last for about 12 month for a given road section. In Anshan, of the total directly affected
people of 1000, over 200 are senior citizens whose outings will feel most difficult to cope with the
road closure. Fushun's subproject, on the other hand, will be constructed in many sections on two
grade-separate carriageways. When one is closed for re-construction, the other will remain
operational. Furthermore, the Hunhenan Road has the river on one side and only some sections have
residents on the other. As such, the construction impact on pedestrians and cyclists will be negligible
in Fushun.
Access to Services and Work - When the project roads are under construction/improvement which
may require road closure, it will be difficult for people to access shops, hospitals, schools,
entertainment facilities, markets, other services and their workplace which are located along the road
side. Because of the construction and/or road closure, these services will be less or no accessible by
automobiles. Shops and other commercial operations readily visible and accessible for customers on
the opposite side of the streets will become less visible and less or even no accessible to the same
customers. A total of 12 major markets/shops, 8 hospitals including estimated 240 patients daily, and
numerous institutions and schools will be affected by construction activities in Shenyang. Shierxian
Vegetable Wholesale Market which is a major supplier and distribution centre of agricultural
produces for 20% of retail shops in Shenyang, will become less accessible during construction to its
customers who typically come with non motor tricycles and small trucks.
Anshan's largest employer, Anshan Iron & Steel Corporation (AISC) which employs over 145,000
people, has three of its main gates on the project roads. An estimated 12,000 employees go to work by
bike and as such the bike traffic is highly concentrated during moming and evening rush hours. The
travel time to and from work will be longer and there could be bicycle traffic jam at the temporary
passage way to the gates. In addition, over 1500 students go to school and 20 patients to a hospital via
the project roads in Anshan. Road construction will affect greatly these students/patients, including
reduced access to the school, difficulties with bicycles, safety, and visual impacts from construction
sites and materials storage. Anshan also has a very large agricultural produce whole sale market, the
Anshan Fruit Wholesale market which supplies fruits to retails in Anshan city and several smaller
ones. Every day, about 300 handcarts and 500 trucks visit the market, and this traffic will be
interrupted during construction as the road in front of the market gate will be closed for construction.
Again, project construction in Fushun will have insignificant impact on access to services as all
residential and services are on the same side of the project road and there is no major services or
public market in the project area.
16



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                             EA Summary
Operation Phase
There will be positive impacts of the project to the communities. Some sections of the existing Beiyi
and Lianhe Roads in Shenyang are currently in very poor conditions, difficult for motor vehicles to
access and have no bus service. The poor transportation conditions in the areas limit the community
development leaving few commercial establishments in these areas. When the project is implemented,
the road conditions will be greatly improved, benefiting the two communities with a total residents of
nearly 27,000. Improved road conditions will make the communities more attractive for further
development including more commercial and other services in the communities. In addition, the
public transportation component of the Shenyang subproject will add bus lines to these communities
including stops near schools and a university, providing much improved convenience and safety.
However, LUTP operation will also impose some negative impacts, in the following aspects:
Community Severance - Many of the communities in the project areas are closely related under the
present conditions. People may cross the streets anywhere they like following their traditional lines of
travel established over years. The implementation of the project will create new or wider roads, faster
traffic speeds and, in many sections, median barriers. This will change the traditional life style for
moving around in the neighbourhood for pedestrians and cyclists and the alternative routes will be
longer. This impact is most obvious in Shenyang, where over 160,000 local residents are estimated to
be affected by community severance. As AISC occupies a large portion of one side of the project road
in Anshan and the Hunhe River occupies virtually entire north side of the project road in Fushun,
there will be low to no impact of community severance in these two cities.
Markets - There are seven large public markets by the project roads in Shenyang and 6 in Anshan.
Every morning, tens of thousands people use these markets for their day's supply of fresh produce.
When completed, the project roads will make left turns in and out of the markets difficult particularly
non motor vehicles which account for a large portion of market customers. Crossing the streets on
foot will 'also be difficult for market goers and in some cases not possible without detouring to
alternative crossing routes some distance away from the markets. In addition, the Anshan subproject
will also occupy 12 peddler stands in front of one market, creating difficulties for peddler parking.
There is no such public market in the Fushun project area.
Schools - There are 9 schools/colleges/kindergartens in along the Shenyang subproject roads, 9 along
the Anshan subproject roads and none in Fushun. The impact to schools includes students/teachers
crossing. For example, two third of the students attending the Laodong Road Primary School in
Anshan live on the other side of the street. Widened roads, increased traffic and faster motor vehicle
speed will all make the street crossing difficult and less safe. Another impact will be related to school
relocations. The teaching building of the Qianjin Primary School and part of the teaching building of
the Wuyi Road Primary School, both in Anshan, need to be demolished. The AISC kindergarten in
Anshan and one day centre in Shenyang need to be relocated as they are on or too close to the
road/interchange alignment. The demolition and re-construction or relocation may disturb school
schedule and teaching activities within the school yards, as well as the psychological feeling of
students, particularly the youngsters.
Other Facilities - There are other facilities which will be impacted by the widening of the roads and
increased speeds and traffic. They include entertainment facilities, hospitals, factories, institutions,
railway stations, bus terminals, and seniors' houses. In many cases, motor vehicles which need to turn
left to access these facilities will have to drive through the facilities and make the turn at the next
interchange. Similarly, pedestrians will have to find the closest traffic signals or crossing zebra lines
to safely cross the streets to their destinies.
17



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                               EA Summary
4.6.2 Mitigation and Residual Impacts
Construction Phase
* Provide guidance and safety protection to students by designated personnel from contractors when
conducting construction in front of schools;
* Design carefully alternative traffic routes and traffic control during construction and road closure;
* Build overhead safety board to protect the safety of pedestrians during overhead construction for
viaducts and interchanges;
* Schedule the construction activities to avoid the rush hours if the construction competes for road
space with pedestrians and cyclists;
* Construct large structures such as interchanges in multiple phases to avoid closure of large areas
at any given time;
* Provide temporary access to allow motor vehicles and non motor vehicles as well as pedestrians
the access to public markets and other major public facilities such as hospitals, railway stations,
etc.
Operation Phase
* Relocate 7 markets affected by the project in Shenyang to more accessible areas;
* Reject an earlier proposal by project engineers to close the Lianhe road section in Shenyang for
pedestrians and left turn traffic and construct an overpass, as this proposal would create great
difficulties for the man-powered carts to go in and out of the Shenyang Vegetable Wholesales
Market. The new design is to keep an approach in front of the market and install specific non
motor vehicles zebras in this intersections;
* Install zebra lines in intervals no longer than 150 m in sections with median separation to allow
pedestrian crossing;
* Install zebra lines and/or traffic signals in school gates, major community entrance, and key pubic
facilities and install traffic signals for crossing with large pedestrian volumes;
* Install 6 pedestrian overpasses in Shenyang, and 2 in Anshan;
* Regulate and divert the traffic to and from public markets via interchanges to avoid left turns and
median separation in Anshan;
* Create additional peddler parking stands using market space to replace that occupied by the
project in Anshan; and
* Build a 15 m permanent road at the Gucheng Bridge in Fushun to access the businesses and
services in the area.
Residual Impacts
Access by vehicles and pedestrians to public markets will be provided after project completion
although vehicles may have, to travel further to the next interchange when need to make left turns for
the access. Pedestrians need to wait for the traffic signals or walk on overage at most 75 m before
finding a zebra crossing in median separated roads to access communities or markets on the other
side. The inconvenience and potential safety hazards for pedestrians and cyclists during construction
will still exist although this will be temporary.
4.7    Resettlement
Each subproject in LUTP involves resettlement. The extent of the resettlement and compensation
program are summarized in the following table:
18



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                                    EA Summary
Table 9 Scope of Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Shenyang            Anshan            Fushun
No. of households                             3107               1751                6
No. of people                                9329               4887                25
Residential                                 171,095             55,193             2793
No. of comunercial establishments              75                378        _
No. of enterprises                             65                100*                7
No. of institutions                            16
Cultivated land acquisition (m')               -               388,788            186,800
Total resettlement compensation (RMB)     219,328,000         258,850,000        78,757,000
* number of enterprises and institutions combined
While resettlement and felocation will cause inconvenience to residents, enterprises and institutions
and may interrupt temporarily their every day life routine and businesses, it will be in general
beneficial to those impacted. Better, newer and bigger houses will be provided to replace houses lost
to the project, which are typically located in good and well designed zones. For example, residents to
be relocated in Anshan will move to new apartments about 23 m2 bigger than the old ones they will
leave behind. In Fushun, all new apartments will have space heating and toilets whereas many of the
existing ones'don't. However, some of these new housing development are in the suburbs. This is
typically quite a change to the usual downtown locations and all the convenience the residents have
before relocation. Therefore, many residents may feel not at ease to cope with at the beginning.
As the lost cultivated land cannot be recovered elsewhere, affected farmers will be compensated at
RMB 8-60/M2. It is expected that the money will be used to increase unit output on the remaining
farmland (such as converting part of the land to high yield cash crops or fish ponds, etc.) to offset the
lost production and agricultural revenue. To some, employment will be arranged in the city
5.   ALTERNATIVES ANALYSIS
In the early screening and feasibility study stage of LUTP, some alternative sections or altemative
design on the same alignment were proposed and evaluated in the three project cities, including
environmental evaluation. When all factors were considered, the project assessed in details in the EA
was recommended as the preferred alternative. The following table sunmmarizes the altematives
considered and main environmental reasons for rejection:
Table.10 Alterni  Alnmwenulgn an-dlmparison
Shenyang                   Anshan                    Fushun
Alternatives     Elevated viaduct in         Elevated viaduct for      Dadong Road (in parallel)
to the project   Beiyi, Nanwu & Wenyi        Wuyi to Laodong Section   to Hunhenan Road from
Roads and Plangjiang,      Shanhe road improvement Hunhe
Beihai & Baogong St,       for new Hebei road        Bridge to Gucheng
South of Steel structure  Bridge
plant for through the plant
Build a new bridge over
Shahe River for existing
bridge improvement
Reasons for      - Must cross three major  - Higher noise of elevated  - Too close to residential
Rejection of     parks & occupy park land &  viaduct                  areas
the alternatives    recreational water areas  - Higher air contamination   - More air emission in HC
(compared  with  - Require large areas of    - More resettlement       and CO and thus higher air
the project)     resettlement                                         pollutants concentrations
- Higher investmnent                                 - More sensitive receptors
- More airborne dust and                             on Dadong
larger area of noise impact                          - More residents, schools,
- Occupy more land                                   hospitals, day care centres,
- Higher NOx emission                                institutions & markets
19



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                          EA Summary
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT PLAN
6.1    Management Institutions, Staffing and Training
6.1.1  Management Institutions
Organizational chart for the three project cities is identical and is presented in Figure 5. The key
organizations responsible in the environmental management for the project are described briefly as
follows:
Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO) - a provincial agency which
is responsible for the pre,paration, implementation and supervision of LLUT?, and co-ordinates among
the project cities for their respective project activities. LURCPO has the ultimate responsibility and
accountability for implementation of the environmental action plans and other commitments for
environmental protection.
Municipal Urban Construction Leading Group - a top agency in each city with overall responsibility
for the project. In each project city, the group is headed by a vice mayor and its members include
heads of the construction committee, planning commission, finance bureau, urban planning bureau,
environmental protection bureau and the subproject management office of the cities.
Municipal Construction Committee - a government agency in a city in charge of the overall
management of the urban and rural construction for the city. In LUTP, this agency has been and will
be responsible for the actual execution of the preparation and implementation of the subprojects. Its
role in environmental management includes environmental management during construction and
decision-making for environmental problem solving during construction and operation.
Municipal Subproject Office - the administrative office for the Leading Group. It takes the day to
day responsibility for implementation of the decisions and policies made by the Leading Group and
other relevant government authorities including LURCPO. This is the organization which is
overseeing the preparation of EIAs and EAP reports in their own cities and will be responsible for
EAP implementation during construction. It will also take the responsibility of environmental
inspection during project operations.
Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau - an agency for overall environmental management in
a city. In this project, the bureau will be responsible for providing supervisory and administrative
authorities on environmental matters, responding to any environmental complains, and enforce
environmental regulations, policies and standards. The provincial bureau is also in the organizational
chart. Its role is similar to its municipal counterpart except at the provincial level.
Municipal Environmental Monitoring Station - an organization responsible for conducting
environmental monitoring programs during construction and operation, preparing result interpretation
and monitoring reports.
Environmental Institutes - There are four environmental institutes involved in this project: one from
the province and one each from the three project cities. The primary role of the environmental
institutes was to conduct the environmental assessment including the EIA and EAP reports. The
municipal environmental institutes were responsible for each of the EIAs and EAPs and the provincial
institute was responsible for the one volume EIA submitted to SEAP for approval, as well as this EA
Executive Summary for the World Bank submission.
20



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                            EA Summary
6.1.2 Staffing and Training
Each project city will have designated staff for environmental management for this project during
both the construction and operation phases. Typically the designated environmental management staff
will be positioned with each municipal subproject office to provide assistance and supervision in EAP
implementation and technical support to the management on environmental matters.
For the Bus Overhaul and Repair facility in Shenyang, an environmental management division will be
created staff with 8 engineers and technicians to carry out the management, technical and monitoring
roles in the facility operation.
In addition, contractors -,articipated in the project will be requested to staff designated environmental
personnel to ensure the implementation of mitigation measures recommended by the environmnental
assessment teams in each city. These personnel will also take the responsibility of responding public
concern and complains during construction.
In order for the staff to effectively fulfil their responsibility, each project city has designed a training
program, shown as follows:
21



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                                  EA Summary
Table 11 Environmental Personnel Training Progamms
Shenyang               Anshan               Fushun
Domestic  Organzations to  Contractors              Contractors         Environmental Institute
Training   be trained      Construction supervisors                     Environmental
Management of the Bus                       Monitoring Station
Overhaul & Repair Facility                  Contractors
Training content  Environmental laws      Environmental laws; Noise &  air emission
Monitoring guides        Monitoring guides   control techniques
Mitigation measures EAPs                    Handling of hazardous
materials
Environmental
_____________ _ Asupervision
No. of trainees            35                   15-20                  50
Duration (days)           10-15                   10                 10-15
Estimated cost        RMB 35,000               80,000            RMB250,000
Overseas  Organzations to  None                     Project Office      Project Office
Training   be trained                                                   Environmental Institute
Training content                          Environmental       Noise control
Management         Public consultation
Policy-making for    Risk analysis
Environrnent       EIA & GIS
Environmental      Air emission and water
monitoring tech.   pollution control
Monitoring
No. of trainees                                   2                    6
Duration (days)                                   30                   30
Estimated cost                 _              US 15,000           RMB250,000
6.2    Environmental Monitoring Plan
6.2.1 Monitoring Program
An environmental monitoring program has been designed in each project city, for both construction
phase and operation phase. The monitoring stations were selected with the objective to reflect the
actual impact of the project. Figures 6, 7 and 8 show proposed locations for the monitoring stations
for the operation phase in Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun, respectively. The monitoring stations for
the construction phase in these three cities are almost identical, except in some locations not all
parameters will be monitored during construction as in operation.
The primary objective of the monitoring program is to monitor and record the actual impact of the
project to the surrounding natural and socio-economic environment and effectiveness of the
mitigation measures proposed. The monitored results will be compared with those predicted in this
environmental assessment. The results will allow the project executing agency to monitor the project
implementation and, if actual impacts exceeded predicted, consider necessary further actions.
The highlights of the monitoring program are presented in the following table:
22



Llaoning Urban Transport Project                                                    EA Summary
Table 12 Environmental Monitoring Program
Shenyang             Anshan              Fushun
Construction Phase
Noise     No.of Monitoring Stations  8                 13                   6
Parameters               Leq                 Leq                  Leq
Frequency                Coincide with       Coincide with        Coincide with
Construction        Construction         Construction
Duration                3 days each time     3 days each time     3 days each time
Vibration  No.of Monitoring Stations  8                6                    None
Paramneters             Vleq                 Vleq
Frequency               Coincide with        Coincide with
Construction        Construction
Duration                 3 days each time    3 days each time
Air       No.of Monitoring Stations  8                 13                   7
quality    Parameters              TSP, B(a)P, NOx, TSP                     TSP, CO, NO,,
NO2
HC, SO2,
Frequency                Coincide with       Coincide with        Coincide with
Construction        Construction         Construction
activities          activities
Duration                 3 days each time    5 days each time     7 days each time
Water     No.of Monitoring Stations  5                 1                    3
Parameters               COD, SS, Oil, NH3-  SS, Oil, pH          COD, SS
N, pH
Frequency                Coincide with       Twicelyr. during     Coincide with
construction        Construction         Construction
_______ =Duration               3 days each time    3 days each time      1 day each time
| _______  -_____________________       Operation  Phase
Noise     No.of Monitoring Stations  8                 8                    4
Pararneters              Leq                 Leq                  Leq
Frequency               Twice/yr for 3 yrs.   12 times/yr.        Twice/yr.
Duration                 3 days each time    I day each time      I day each time
Vibration  No.of Monitoring Stations  8                6                    None
Parameters             lVleq                 Vleq
Frequency                Twice/yr for 3 yrs.   12 times/yr.
Duration                 3 days each time    I day each time
Air       No.of Monitoring Stations  8                 6                    4
quality    Parameters              TSP, B(a)P, NOx, CO, NOx, TSP, Pb, TSP, CO, NOx, Pb,
NO2 CO, HC, SO2   HC                     HC
Frequency                Twice/yr. for 3 yrs.   Twice/yr.         Twice/yr.
Duration                 3 days each time    5 days each time     7 days each time
Water     No.of Monitoring Stations  I                 1                    2
Parameters               COD, SS, Oil, pH    SS, pH, DO, COD, DO, COD, Oil, pH,
NH3-N, Oil           NH3-N, SS
Frequency                Twice/yr.          Twice/yr.             Twice/yr.
Duration                 3 days each time    2 days each time   [3 days each time
6.2.2 Responsible Institutions for Monitoring
The implementation of environmental monitoring program involve primarily the following three key
agencies:
* Environmental Monitoring Stations/Centres in each of the three cities will be the organizations
which will perform the monitoring, laboratory analysis, result interpretation, and reporting;
23



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                              EA Summary
* Environmental Protection Bureau of each project city will review the monitoring reports,
primarily with reference to relevant regulatory standards; and
*  Subproject Office of each city will review the reports with reference to the EAP. This office will
also be responsible to respond to requirements for necessary further actions..
6.2.3 Environmental Monitoring Costs
The cost for implementing the environmental monitoring program is summarized as follows:
Table 13 Estimated Costs for Environmental Monitoring (RMB)
Shenyang            Anshan              Fushun
Instrument Cost                     62,000            2,461,000           2,230,000
Annual Cost (construction)         341,400             333,600             145,000
Annual Cost (operation)            376,500             419,800             162,000
7.     PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
7.1    Approach and Methodology
The public participation program was carried out separately in the three project cities by the EA
teams. In each city, the program consisted basically of two rounds of public consultation covering
enterprises, institutions, commercial establishments, residents, hospitals, schools and day care centres
near the project roads or the project facilities. The first round of the program was conducted through
neighbourhood meetings, public surveys, site visits, and resident interviews. The objective of this
round of the public participation was two-fold: to introduce project contents and engineering details,
major environmental concems already identified by the EA teams and corresponding mitigation
measures proposed; and to solicit public concern and opinions about the project and its impacts. The
first round of the public participation was carried between November 12 to December 22, 1996 in
Shenyang, December 2 to 15, 1996 in Anshan, and November 20 to 28, 1996 in Fushun.
With public concems, demands, suggestions, and opinions obtained from the first round of the public
participation, the EA teams from each city conducted further studies, with a focus on mitigation
measures which would address the concerns from the public. When new mitigation measures were
developed and designed, the second round of the public participation was carried out, again in the
forn of public meetings, site visits and personnel interviews. This round of public consultation
focused on those members of the public who raised serious concerns and/or demanded actions in the
first round of the program. The objective of this round was to solicit public opinions on the additional
mitigation measures proposed. The second round of public participation program was conducted
between September 10-30, 1997 and again February 23 to March 10, 1998 in Shenyang, March 3 to
12, 1997 in Anshan and June I to 15, 1997 and again December 10 to 28, 1997 in Fushun. The public
participation programs and the general opinions from the public are presented as follows:
Table 14 Public Participation Progrim   -_-_-
Shenyang           Anshan            Fushun
No. of public meetings                    50                                   6
Total No. of people in the meetings     3000               456                840
No. of organization surveyed             124                -
No. of opinion form handed out           500               456               2200
No. of opinion form received             470               456               1520
% of opinion supporting the project    86-90%             96.2%             90%**
% of opinion against the project       10-14%*             1.3%              2%**
% of with no opinion                                       2.5%              8%**
* including those with no opinion
*x The same statistics for the alternative Dadong road was: 14% support it, 80% against it, and 6% had
indifferent opinion.
24



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                                     EA Summary
7.2    Major Public Concerns and Responses
The major public concerns gathered through the first round of the public participation program and
EA teams' responses/solutions are summarized as follows:
Table 15 Major Public Concerns and Solutions
Shenyang                          Anshan                            Fushun
Concern: noise in Nanwu Rd from   Concern: access to Sifangtai Fruit  Concern: loss of income for
residents and shop                Market from market operators and  farmers who would lose their
Owners                            customers                        land to the project
Solution: install noise barrier, sound  Solution: police controlled traffic  Solution: farmers who lose land
absorption pavement and double  signals to allow  left turn during  will  be  compensated  and
glazed windows                    market peak hrs.                  arranged for employment
Result: satisfied                 Result: satisfied                 Result: satisfied
Concern. access to market from   Concern: noise at schools from   Concern: noise to residential
Shierxian Wholesale Market       school staff                      areas from residents
Solution: change the original design  Solution:  install  double-glazed  Solution: install double-glazed
and add a designated man-powered  window & air conditioners to allow   windows & air conditioners to
vehicle lane                      windows closed year-round.        allow windows closed
Result: very satisfied            Result: satisfied                 Result: satisfied
Concern: access to  shops and  Concern:  street  crossing  for  Concern: access during near
services from  viaduct from  shop  pedestrian from school staff, seniors  the  Gucheng  bridge  during
owners at Nanwu Rd.               house, and residents             construction to enterprises
Solution:  original  design  was  Solution:    designated    street-  Solution: build a temporary
changed and a ramp added          crossings (zebra lines) added to  passage way at the location
Result: satisfied                 several key locations for pedestrians  during construction
Result: satisfied                Result: satisfied
Concern:sunshine obstruction to a
day  care centre yard from  the  Concern: Strong noise and vibration
owner/operator                    at Qianjin Primary school
Solution:  explanation  made  on  Solution: relocate the school
actual sunshine obstruction to the  Result: very satisfied
yard which is minimum
Result: satisfied
8.   CONCLUSION
This environmental assessment for LUTP draws the following conclusions:
1.     The Liaoning Urban Transportation Project will lower transportation cost and reduce travel
time in cities of Shenyang, Anshan and Fushun. The project will serve as part of the road network in
the cities and significantly improve the urban transportation infrastructure, making the region more
attractive to further development and outside investments. The construction and operation of the
project will bring a large number of direct and induced employment opportunities to the local
economy.
2.     LUTP will also bring direct environmental benefits to the project cities: about half of the
project roads in Shenyang and Anshan and all project roads in Fushun will experience a reduced air
pollutant concentrations, as predicted for the year 2010. From the city perspective, all three cities will
significantly reduce motor vehicle emissions as a result of improved motor vehicle engine efficiency
and reduced traffic congestion when operating on the project roads. Roads adjacent to the project are
predicted to have traffic noise levels reduced by about 1.6-2.1 dB(A). In all project cities, there will be
net increase in tress and/or green space in the urban areas along the project roads. Millions of urban
25



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                               EA Summary
residents, as well as schools, hospitals and other sensitive receptors, in the project cities will directly
benefit from the improved air and acoustic environments and environmental aesthetics. To the
communities which currently have poor road conditions and no public transport service, the
implementation of the project will completely change the conditions, bringing residents such benefits
as new, high quality roads, bus services and, indirectly, community development.
3.     The adverse impacts generated by the project will be avoided or reduced to insignificant and
acceptable levels by taking appropriate mitigation and compensation measures. Main such measures
include a sound barrier and sound absorption payment in key sections of the Shenyang project roads;
double-glazed windows with air conditioners in schools, day care centres and the most sensitive and
affected residential houses in the three cities to mitigate noise impacts year round; promote public
transportation, clean fuels and vehicle inspection and maintenance programs to control motor vehicle
emissions; develop and implement an Motor Vehicle Emissions Control Strategy (MVECS) to
address the long term effect of the motor vehicle emissions to air quality; install street crossing
signals, crossing zebra lines, designated non-motor vehicles lanes and grade separated passes to
mitigate community severance and access to markets, schools and services; re-plantation and
landscaping program along the project roads to compensate the green lost to the project, intercept
surface runoff in Fushun during construction to minimize the effect to water quality in the Hunhe
river, install temporary separation at elevated viaduct and interchange construction sites to control the
noise and dust from affecting the surrounding areas during construction; and establishment of
environmental emergency teams to minimize impacts of motor vehicle accidents involving hazardous
materials.
4.     Some adverse impacts, while mitigated, can still be noticeable even after taking the mitigation
measures. These include noise levels in a few receptors still higher than the applicable standards; a
permanent loss of about 3659 mu of agricultural land primarily from Anshan and Fushun, temporary
obstruction and detouring of the traffic during construction, and accidental releases of hazardous
materials from tanker trucks on the project roads.
5.     Concerns and opinions about the project from the public in the three cities were well sought.
All the concerns collected through a public participation program were carefully studied and
appropriately addressed through change of the original design and addition of facilities. Where no
further actions were taken for the public concerns which were misunderstood by the members of the
public, explanations were provided. In general, the majority of the public was satisfied to very
satisfied with the changes and explanations.
6.    In order to assure the protection of the environment from anticipated adverse impacts and to
decide whether to take further actions for impact mitigation where needed, noise, air quality and water
quality will be monitored during construction and operation. The monitoring stations will be located
in sensitive areas such as villages, schools, hospitals and rivers at the project alignments. The
monitoring program and monitoring centres are part of a comprehensive environrnental management
plan. The plan includes various government agencies involved in the projects taking specific
responsibilities for environmental protection, including EAP implementation, monitoring reports
review, and further mitigation actions if necessary. The plan also specifies personnel requirements in
the project environmental management and staff training.
26



Liaoning Urban Transport Project                                           EA Summary
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
AISC:        Anshan Iron and Steel Corporation
CO:          Carbon Monoxide
COD:         Chemical Oxygen Demands
dB(A):       Decibel(Absolute)
DO:          Dissolved Oxygen
EA:          Environmental Assessment
EAP:         Environmental Action Plan
EIA:         Environmental Impact Assessment
FHWA:        Federal Highway Administration, the US
HC           Hydrocarbons
LUTP         Liaoning Urban Transport Project
m/s:         Metre per Second
mg/kg:       Microgram per Kilogram
mg/L:        Micrograms per Litre
mg/m3:       Microgram per Cubic Metre
MOC:         Ministry of Communications, the People's Republic of China
mu:          Unit for area commonly used in China; 15 mu to a hectare
MV           Motor Vehicles
MVECS:       Motor Vehicle Emissions Control Strategy
N/A:         Not Applicable
NEPA:        National Environmental Protection Agency (now SEPA), the People's Republic of
China
NMV:         Non Motor Vehicles
NO2          Nitrogen Dioxide
NOx:         Nitrogen Oxides
O&G:         Oil and Grease
RAP:         Resettlement Action Plans
RMB:         Remibi, The Official Currency of China
SAB:         Sound Absorption Barrier
SEPA:        State Environmental Protection Agency (formerly NEPA), the People's Republic of
China
SO2:         Suphur Dioxide
SPC:         State Planning Commission, the People's Republic of China
SS:          Suspended Solids
t/y:         TonnesJYear
TSP:         Total Suspended Particulate
US:          The United States of America
US EPA:      US Environmental Protection Agency
27



Appendix    Figures in the EA Summary



CH uuao y/        < an dog  Jin     ho
1Ben A   I    *  X   B; X    Xi1°' S
|L0 >F t  /<]  4  9  *n <fia t 3000a
nin9  i  |  SOKm  OKm  W   90
N~A
Huludao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dalian~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1: 3000000
30Km 0Km  30  60  90  120Km



USRenar Facij; % t
Ish-n R..d        11' Chong nDr Road East
Chongshanl Road                                                                                                                'm   5
3CO1IQ
C~~~fl                       1320
a                                                              N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
heng RooChngn o 
-    Surface Road        ng         Air  Qality K



He e   a
,@t~~~~~~~(na Nig~a X   -<[                                    | Lnt  m                      irto
a      12o 0                                                    0
, ., . . ' _ , _ _ . _
i Road    rchange ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 4(I
CZ
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dongshan Tunnel                                  Cs~~~~~~~
5OOm om  500 1000 1500 2000M
>
-    Surface Road      *    Air quality
'is' 'i'oa,~~~~~~~~~~,  ~~~7j~~~   Length (in)                  F]   Vibration
1340                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sunshine



A 
South interchange of                                   "  c
.7)                    t                >> Xinhua Brodge
/ 11 9ii| ~~~~~~~~~~~~South interchange of 8dHh*Y,,  
Changchun Bridge
,'                   \     ~~~~~~~~South interchang    ,                                   -3X
South interchange of                                              Wanxin Bridg
He    Brid e     /       SoutInterchange of    OpenPitCoaIMine  -
Hunhe Bri-ge 11          /Guchengzi              t                                           un o R
\                     \                       9      O~~~~~~~~~~~Km  1    2    3    4   g    o
X                                  !                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEGEND             ! :
igog -          Surface Road           Air Quality
>                                                   *        Bvdge           A     Noise ai3
\I| Z|   Length (in) 9A,aS       Water Quality    _
T T-ML---~~~~. 



Figure 5            Orginazition Chart of LUTP
Liaoning Provincial
Government                                                                                     ,
I   .   .~~                                       _     _     _  _ _  _   _      _      . 
Liaoning Provincial Construction                                                          ,o
|  Bureau & LUCRPO                                                              Liaoning EPB                                            t
- __|r .Liaoning Provincial Environmental
Protection Science Institute
Municipal Urban Construction Leading Group & Municipal
Subproject OMnce
Municipal Urban & Rural                                                          Municipal EPB
Construction Commission
Municipal Urban     |      |     Municipal Urban                   F   Municipal Environmental Protection Science Institute and
Construction Bureau           Construction Project OfMce                       Municipal Environmental Monitoring Center
_ 17                                         ---              ---   ___
MuiiplurbnicplUbnCntuto   edn   ru                 uiia
,.1      C                                _o_n_tra
Contractor        |
.  _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                   3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Bus J R e
uhngsha RoadAr,oowa.
r,N0189,W          Vibration~~~~ibatonOfgJ~ oa
Interchanne                           Co Air,Noise,irWNoes
~Ai,Nose,ate VibraVibation 
r,Noise ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Ar,os
Vibration ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ jaon   usVbato 
g Roa~~~~~~~~
bration ~ ~   ~     Cbtrcto
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aogCagnRa
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-                                                                       ,i~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aida Highway  1
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                           l,So
JHunbe Road
~L1m
|@~  ~~ -~-otofei  -j    104 BuIld-                                                          Are __   Susdec                    /  f7 M0
l~ ~~~E -y               ..Pz-           T7r9            -                               AAnon  4pn.tp, S-'' 
BOI hou Village~~ ~'Senmo ot
Hunh      d- 195r                                                   LEGENG 
\d)X       Construction Air, Noise ia R
\                 1                              \       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* Operation Air, Noise3
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K                                         1     2     3     4K     |         Construction   &  Operation|  
MangameWate



Hebei Rd. Residential Quarter
\ Wtr ter
Air,Noise               -                                        A
Anshan Iron and Steel Company            - 
(Angang)                  __                            ,
0} oS Laodong Rd. Primary Schooll  .   -
Air,Noise,Vibration.
.',Wuyi Rd/ Primary                                  'i                    -
| E ; ~~~~~~M"insheng Rd. Uneps, = f >    
/XAir,Noise,Vibration  /                          plan9tClnoubse11b)a'tio
,    \j / .    dngcangia  resistri c tl1!istrict
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
d'7an Primary School                                        LEGEND '
,                        N- /1 Noise,Vibration |                  o    Construction
%   /                           h'de. Soho[0m Om  soo 1000 1500 2000m 
:   --               ,:                    pA Air,N~~~~~~~~~oise,Vibrat7ion]  I-WL4-_j-X-                prto
N'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Oprto



