Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4453 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Liaoning Urban Transport Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 27, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4453 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Liaoning Province (Liaoning) with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make the 
proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available 
to Liaoning, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Liaoning 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
Page  2
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Affected Persons” means persons who on account of the execution of the 
Project had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or (ii) 
right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected, and “Affected Person” means any of the Affected Persons. 
(b)
“Anshan” means the city of Anshan, an administrative sub-division of 
Liaoning, and any successor thereto. 
(c)
“Anshan EAP” means the environmental action plan dated September 1998, in 
respect of Part C of the Project, which sets out environmental protection measures as 
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of 
said plan. 
(d)
“Anshan RAP” means the resettlement action plan dated February 1999, in 
respect of Part C of the Project, which sets out the principles and procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan.
(e)
“EAPs” means, collectively, the Shenyang EAP, the Fushun EAP and the 
Anshan EAP, and “EAP” means any of the EAPs. 
(f)
“Front-end fee” means the fee referred to in Section 2.04 hereof, payable 
by the Borrower at effectiveness of the Loan Agreement.  
(g)
“Fushun” means the city of Fushun, an administrative sub-division of 
Liaoning, and any successor thereto. 
(h)
“Fushun EAP” means the environmental action plan dated September 1998, in 
respect of Part B of the Project, which sets out environmental protection measures as 
well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of 
said plan. 
(i)
“Fushun RAP” means the resettlement action plan dated February 1999, in 
respect of Part B of the Project, which sets out the principles and procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan. 
(j)
“LUCRPO” means the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office 
referred to in paragraph A (2) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(k)
“Liaoning” means Liaoning Province, a political sub-division of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
(l)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Liaoning of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(m)
“Project Cities” means, collectively, the cities of Shenyang, Fushun and 
Anshan in Liaoning, and “Project City” means any of the Project Cities. 
(n)
“RAPs” means, collectively, the Shenyang RAP, the Fushun RAP and the 
Anshan RAP, and “RAP” means any of the RAPs.
(o)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of: (i) Shenyang, Part 
A of the Project; (ii) Fushun, Part B of the Project; and (iii) Anshan, Part C of the 
Project. 
Page  3
(p)
“Shenyang” means the city of Shenyang, an administrative sub-division of 
Liaoning, and any successor thereto. 
(q)
“Shenyang EAP” means the environmental action plan dated September 1998, 
in respect of Part A of the Project, which sets out environmental protection measures 
as well as administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of 
said plan. 
(r)
“Shenyang RAP” means the resettlement action plan dated February 1999, in 
respect of Part A of the Project, which sets out the principles and procedures 
governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as monitoring and 
reporting arrangements to ensure compliance with said plan. 
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to Liaoning, Shenyang, Fushun or 
Anshan, as the case may be.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Liaoning to perform in accordance 
with the Project Agreement all the obligations of Liaoning therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Liaoning to perform 
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Liaoning on 
the following principal terms: 
(i)
the principal amount shall be the amount withdrawn from the Loan 
Account or 
paid out of the Special Account, on account of the 
cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, plus an amount 
equal to the amount of the fee referred to in Section 
2.04 
of this Agreement;  
(ii)
Liaoning shall repay the principal amount so made available to it, 
in Dollars, 
over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a 
grace period of five (5) 
years; 
(iii)
Liaoning shall pay interest on the principal amount referred to 
above in 
paragraph (b) (i) of this Section withdrawn 
Page  5
and outstanding from time to time 
at a rate equal to the 
rate applicable to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of 
this 
Agreement; and 
(iv)
Liaoning shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount not 
withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Liaoning pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
Page  6
(a)
Liaoning shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Liaoning will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that Liaoning has entered into a project implementation 
arrangement with each of the Project Cities in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph B (2) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Liaoning, and is legally binding upon Liaoning in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486  MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  111,900,000
48%
(2)
Goods
   18,400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants'
    5,200,000
100%
services and training
(4)
Fee
    1,500,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   13,000,000
                             ___________
TOTAL
  150,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods and services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
Page  8
“foreign expenditures”; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $13,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
September 30, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent each; 
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each; 
(c)
consultants’services under contracts awarded to (i) consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, and (ii) individuals, costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and  
(d)
training; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve the 
infrastructure and management of urban transport in the cities of Shenyang, Fushun and 
Anshan in Liaoning Province.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective:
Part A:
Shenyang
1.
Public Transport.  
Improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of public transport consisting 
of: (a) construction of a bus maintenance and repair facility at Xiaohantun and a bus 
terminal and related parking facilities at Da Dongmen; (b) provision of equipment for 
said facilities; (c) development of a bus priority scheme; and (d) resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Part A.1 of 
the Project. 
2.
Traffic Management.  
Carrying out of a program of traffic management and safety, including 
channelization of traffic, signalization and signage, reconstruction of exclusive 
roadways for non-motorized vehicles, construction of pedestrian facilities, 
resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying 
out of Part A.2 of the Project, and provision of traffic management equipment.
3.
Road Infrastructure.  
Alleviation of traffic bottlenecks consisting of: (a) widening of existing 
roadways at Pangjiang Jie; (b) construction of new road segments at Lianhe and Beiyi 
Roads and at the Jianshe and Nanwu viaduct, interchanges at Gonghe and Fangxing 
Square, and over and underpass at railway crossings; and (c) resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Part A.3 of 
the Project. 
4.
Road Maintenance.  
Page  9
Carrying out of a program of road maintenance consisting of paving and 
reconstructing about 80 kilometers (km) of roadways, resettlement and rehabilitation 
of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Part A.4 of the Project, 
and provision of road maintenance equipment.
Part B:
Fushun 
1.
Public Transport.  
Improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of public transport consisting 
of provision of bus maintenance equipment and development of bus corridors. 
2.
Traffic Management.  
Carrying out of a program of traffic management and safety consisting of 
channelization of traffic, signalization, improvement of the Dandong Lu and Xincheng 
Lu road corridors and the Zhangqian area, development of non-motorized vehicles 
facilities, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part B.2 of the Project, and provision of traffic management 
equipment.
3.
Road Infrastructure.  
Alleviation of traffic bottlenecks consisting of: (a) construction of an 
expressway of about 18 km along the south bank of the Hun river; (b) reconstruction of 
about 18 km of Hunhenan Road; (c) construction of related interchanges; (d) 
construction of a bridge at Wanxin and related road interchange; and (e) resettlement 
and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Part B.3 
of the Project. 
4.
Road Maintenance.  
Carrying out of a program of road maintenance consisting of repair and 
reconstruction of roadways, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in 
connection with the carrying out of Part B.4 of the Project, and provision of road 
maintenance equipment.
Part C:
Anshan
1.
Public Transport.  
Improvement in the efficiency and effectiveness of public transport consisting 
of: (a) construction of bus transfer facilities at Wuyi; (b) upgrading and 
construction of roads to provide exclusive rights-of-way for tramways, buses and 
non-motorized vehicles; (c) provision of equipment for upgraded tramway operations; 
and (d) resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the 
carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project.
2.
Traffic Management.  
Carrying out of a program of traffic management and safety consisting of: (a) 
construction of off-street parking facilities; (b) construction of about 4 km of 
exclusive roadways for non-motorized vehicles and of pedestrian facilities; (c) 
channelization of traffic, signalization and signage; (d) provision of traffic 
management equipment; and (e) resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in 
connection with the carrying out of Part C.2 of the Project.
3.
Road Infrastructure.  
Alleviation of traffic bottlenecks consisting of: (a) construction of new 
roadways, interchanges and other access roads; (b) widening and other improvement of 
existing roads; (c) construction of a bridge at Shahe; and (d) resettlement and 
rehabilitation of Affected Persons in connection with the carrying out of Part C.3 of 
the Project.
4.
Road Maintenance.  
Page  10
Carrying out of a program of road maintenance consisting of: (a) reconstruction 
of about 4 km of Hongqi Road; (b) reconstruction and repair of about 70,000 square 
meters of sidewalks; and (c) resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in 
connection with the carrying out of Part C.4 of the Project.
Part D:
Institutional Development 
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of provincial and municipal agencies involved in 
aspects of urban transport, including in the areas of policy formulation, investment, 
planning, design, construction, procurement, operation and maintenance, environmental 
assessment, traffic management, through the provision of consultants’ services, 
training and equipment. 
2.
Carrying out of studies in the areas of parking policy and management; motor 
vehicle emission control strategy; busway design and public transport operation 
policies and regulations; road maintenance planning, traffic accident analysis and 
traffic signal control system. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)* 
November 15, 2004
3,210,000 
May 15, 2005
3,305,000 
November 15, 2005
3,400,000 
May 15, 2006
3,500,000 
November 15, 2006
3,600,000 
May 15, 2007
3,705,000 
November 15, 2007
3,810,000 
May 15, 2008
3,920,000 
November 15, 2008
4,035,000 
May 15, 2009
4,150,000 
November 15, 2009
4,270,000 
May 15, 2010 
4,390,000 
November 15, 2010
4,520,000 
May 15, 2011
4,650,000 
November 15, 2011
4,785,000 
May 15, 2012
4,920,000 
November 15, 2012
5,065,000 
May 15, 2013
5,210,000 
November 15, 2013
5,360,000 
May 15, 2014
5,515,000 
November 15, 2014
5,675,000 
May 15, 2015
5,835,000 
November 15, 2015
6,005,000 
May 15, 2016
6,180,000 
November 15, 2016
6,355,000
May 15, 2017
6,540,000 
November 15, 2017
6,730,000 
May 15, 2018
6,925,000 
November 15, 2018
                                         7,125,000 
May 15, 2019
7,310,000
_________________________________ 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $7,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $40,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  12
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
