Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4453 CHA
Project Agreement
(Liaoning Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LIAONING PROVINCE
Dated July 27, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4453 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1999, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LIAONING PROVINCE (Liaoning). 
WHEREAS  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic 
of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Liaoning agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; 
WHEREAS  Liaoning, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Page  2
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Liaoning declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and management practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Liaoning shall otherwise agree, Liaoning shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Liaoning shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Liaoning shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Liaoning, a plan for 
the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Liaoning on 
said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Liaoning shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan. 
(b)
Liaoning shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Liaoning of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Liaoning shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Liaoning responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Liaoning shall: (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 3.01 for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  3
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Liaoning 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Liaoning thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Liaoning Province:
Liaoning Province People’s Government
No. 43 Beiling Street
Huang Gu District
Shenyang, Liaoning Province
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
1908 shenyang
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Liaoning may 
be taken or executed by the Governor of Liaoning or such other person or persons as 
said Governor shall designate in writing, and said Governor shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Page  4
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative
LIAONING PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works under Parts A.3, B.3 and C.3 of 
the Project shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more each. 
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower, excluding 
goods manufactured in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region.
(d)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
Page  5
(e)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $84,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more; (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more; and (iii) works for Parts A.2, B.2 and C.2 irrespective of cost, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods for Parts A.2, B.2 and C.2 to be 
procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.2 of this 
Section I, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received 
shall be provided to the 
Bank;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, a 
copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract shall be provided to the 
Bank; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.    
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  6
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:   Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other 
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants Individual consultants Services for 
tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
For purposes of Section 2.01 (b) of this Agreement, the implementation program 
shall consist of the following: 
A.
Project Management
Liaoning shall establish and thereafter maintain: 
1.
an institutional arrangement with composition, functions and responsibilities 
Page  7
satisfactory to the Bank, to provide overall guidance and coordination in the 
implementation of the Project; and 
2.
the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office, with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to the Bank, managed and staffed by 
qualified personnel in adequate number, to oversee the overall management of the 
Project. 
B.
Project Implementation 
1.
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
this Agreement, Liaoning shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project through 
Shenyang, Fushun and Anshan, respectively.
2.
For purposes of paragraph B.1 above, Liaoning shall enter into a project 
implementation arrangement with each Project City, satisfactory to the Bank.  Each 
such project implementation arrangement shall provide inter alia that:
(a)
The Project City shall establish and thereafter maintain: (i) a Project 
Leading Group with composition, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to 
Liaoning and to the Bank, to coordinate the planning and implementation of its 
Respective Part of the Project; and (ii) a Project Office with functions, 
responsibilities and resources satisfactory to Liaoning and to the Bank, managed and 
staffed with qualified personnel in adequate number, to manage the day to day 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
The Project City: (i) declares its commitment to the preservation of the 
environment and, to this end, undertakes to carry out its respective EAP in a manner 
satisfactory to Liaoning and to the Bank; (ii) shall furnish any proposed revision to 
its respective EAP to the Bank for its prior approval; (iii) shall maintain policies 
and procedures to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying 
out of its respective EAP; and (iv) shall, from time to time, provide to Liaoning for 
integration into the reports to be furnished by Liaoning to the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph C (2) of this Schedule 2, the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to clause (iii) of this paragraph B (2) (b).
(c)
The Project City shall: (i) implement its respective RAP in a manner 
satisfactory to Liaoning and to the Bank; (ii) furnish any proposed revision to its 
respective RAP to the Bank for its prior approval; (iii) maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, on an ongoing basis, the 
carrying out of its respective RAP, including engaging an independent agency 
acceptable to the Bank to monitor the implementation and impact of said RAP; and (iv) 
from time to time, provide to Liaoning for integration into the reports to be 
furnished by Liaoning to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph C (2) of 
this Schedule 2, the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to clause (iii) of this paragraph B (2) (c). 
(d)
The Project City shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of its Respective Part of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of said City responsible for carrying out said Part of the Project, or any 
portion thereof.
(e)
The Project City shall: (i) procure the goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for its Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) use such goods, works and services exclusively to carry out its 
Respective Part of the Project.
(f)
The Project City shall: (i) furnish through Liaoning to the Bank for its 
review and comments, by December 15 of each year commencing in 1999, an annual work 
plan for the implementation of its Respective Part of the Project during the following 
calendar year, said work plan to include, inter alia, the scope and schedule of 
activities under each component of its Respective Part of the Project, the financing 
plan and detailed budget arrangements; and (ii) thereafter, implement said work plan 
in a manner satisfactory to Liaoning and to the Bank, taking into consideration the 
Bank’s comments thereon. 
Page  8
(g)
The Project City shall promptly inform Liaoning and the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project or the performance of its obligations under its 
respective project implementation agreement with Liaoning.
3.
Liaoning shall make available to each of the Project Cities a portion of the 
proceeds of the Loan on the following terms: 
(a)
the principal amount made available to each Project City shall be the 
equivalent in dollars (determined on the dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
of payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods or services required for said 
Project City’s Respective Part of the Project; 
(b)
the Project City shall repay to Liaoning the principal amount so made 
available to it in dollars, over fifteen (15) years inclusive of a grace period of 
five (5) years; 
(c)
the Project City shall pay interest on such principal amount outstanding 
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and 
(d)
the Project City shall pay a commitment charge on the principal amount 
not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum.
4.
Liaoning shall not, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any project implementation agreement with a Project 
City, or any provisions thereof. 
5.
Liaoning shall carry out the training under Part D.1 of the Project in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank.
6.
Under Part D.2 of the Project, Liaoning shall: 
(a)
(i) by December 31, 2000, complete under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank a study on parking policy and management; (ii) provide said study to the Bank 
for its review and comments; and (iii) thereafter, put into effect the recommendations 
of said study taking into consideration the Bank’s view thereon; 
(b)
(i) by December 31, 2001, complete under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank the preparation of a strategy for the control of emissions from vehicles in 
Liaoning; (ii) provide said strategy to the Bank for its review and comments; and 
(iii) by December 31, 2002 implement such strategy in each Project City taking into 
consideration the Bank’s view thereon; and 
(c)
(i) by December 31, 2000, complete under terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank a study on the experience of public transport operations policies in the 
Project Cities as well as in other cities in China; (ii) provide such study to the 
Bank for its review and comments; and (iii) on the basis of said study and taking into 
consideration the Bank’s view thereon, by June 30, 2001 formulate a strategy for the 
development of public transport in the Project Cities, including operations policies 
and regulations.
C.
Monitoring and Reporting 
1.
Liaoning shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Bank the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Liaoning shall:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: (i) a quarterly report on or about January 15, April 15, July 15 and 
October 15 of each year, commencing on October 15, 1999; and (ii) on or about December 
31, 2001, a mid-term report, in each case integrating the results of the monitoring 
Page  9
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Section C and 
the information provided by each of the Project Cities, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(b)
review with the Bank on such dates as the Bank shall request the reports 
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of each such report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
