Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19398-BR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE REFORM LOAN
(Loan. No. 4139-BR)
June 16, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Real (Rs5)
EXCHANGE RATE
December 1997 RsS1.1156 = USSI
December 1998 Rs$1.2079 = USSI
June     1999 Rs$i76   = USSI
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
lanuarv I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGERGS    -        State Regulatory Agency
(Agencia Estadual de Reglracho dos Sen,icios Piblicos
Delegados do Rio Grande do Sul)
ANEEL       -      National Electricity Agency
Rgincia .Vacional de Energia Fjgctricaj
ARO         -      Credit Advance on Budget Revenues
(Anrecipacdo de Receirta Orqamentar.aj
CAP         -      Port Authority
(Conselho de Autoridade Porruariaj
CEEE        -      State Power Company
(Companhia Estadual de Energia Elecrrica,
CEF         -      Federal Mortgage Bank
(Caixa Econdmica Federal)
CEU         -      Central Executing Unit
CGTEE       -      Thermal Generation Electric Power Company
(Companhia de Geraqdo Termica de Enereia Eletrica)
CORSAN    -        Rio Grande do Sul Sanitation Company
(Companhia Riograndense de Saneamenro)
CRT         -      Rio Grande do Sul Telecommunication Company
(Companhia Riograndense de Telecomunica,oes)
DAER        -      State Department of Transportation
(Departamento Autonomo de Estradar de Rodagem)
DNER        -      Federal Deparment of Transportation
(Departamento Vacional de Estradas de Rodagem)
DEPRC       -      State Department of Rivers, Ports and Canals
(Departamento Estadual de Ris Portos e Canais)
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product '
ICMS         -      Sales Tax on Goods and Services
(Imposto de Circulaqdo de Mercadorias e Servi,os)
IDB          -      Inter-American Development Bank
IGP-DI       -      General Price Index - Domestic Supply
(Indice Geral de Pre,os - Disponibilidade Inrerna)
PDV          -      Voluntary Dismissal Programs
(Programa de DemissOes Voluntarias)
PRG          -      Port of Rio Grande
(Porto de Rio Grande)
PROES         -      Incentive Program to Reduce the States' Public Sector
Participation in Banking Activity
(Programa do Incenuvo a Reduqdo da Participacdo do
Setor Pziblico na Atividade Bancaria
RECs         -      Rural Electricity Cooperatives
RGS          -      Rio Grande do Sul
SAL          -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SUPRG        -      Port Superintendence
(Superintendencia do Porto de Rio Grande)
SWC          -      State Water Company
SRL          -      State Reform Loan
Vice President       Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director     Gobind T. Nankani
Task Manager         Mauricio Carrizosa



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE REFORM LOAN
(Ln. 4139-BR)
Contents
Preface ...............i
Evaluation Summary .i
Part  I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.              Statement of Objectives .......... .................      1
B.              Achievement of Objectives ...........................4
C.              Major Factors Affecting the Project .......................... 10
D.              Project Costs ..........................                 12
E               Project Sustainability ........        .................. 13
F.              Bank Performance ..........................              14
G.              Borrower Performance ..........................          15
H.              Assessment of Outcome ..........................         16
I               Future Operations ..........................             17
J               Key Lessons Learned ........           .................. 17
Part  II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:        Summary of Assessment ..........................         20
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............    ........... 21
Table 3:        Project Timetable ..........................             22
Table 4:        Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual ........         .................. 23
Table 5.a:      Project Costs ......................... 24
Table 5.b:      Project Financing .........................              25
Table 6:        Status of Legal Covenants ...........      .............. 26
Table 7:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................   29
Table 8:        Bank Resources: Missions ..........................      29
Table 9:        Policy Matrix ..........................                 31
Table 10:       Evolution of Fiscal Accounts 1996-98 ........................ 33
Table 1:       Expenditure Review Targets ..........................    34
Table 12:       Proceeds from Privatizations .........................   35
Table 13:       Road Concessions .........................               36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



2
Appendices:
A.              Public Expenditure Reviews .......................         36
B.              Privatizations of State Companies .......................  44
C.              Concessions of Ports ....................... 55
D.              Concessions of Roads ....................... 63
E.              Mission's Aide Memoire .........            .............. 70
F.              Borrower's Contribution to ICR .......................      76
G.              Map ....................... 86



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE REFORM LOAN
(Ln. 4139-BR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rio Grande do Sul
State Reform Loan in Brazil. The Loan, in the amount of US$125 million equivalent, was
approved March 4, 1997, became effective June 30, 1997, and closed on its original closing
date, December 31, 1998. Final disbursement took place December 9, 1998, when a
balance of US$20 million was canceled.
The draft ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), with the participation of
Philip Gray (PSDPP) and Ben Darche (consultant) and under the supervision of Mauricio
Carrizosa, Task Manager (LCSPR). The draft was reviewed by Suman Bery (LCC5A),
Jacques Cellier (LCSFP), Beth Anne Dabak (LEGOP), William Dillinger (LCSPR),
Gordon Hughes (ENV), Eloy Vidal (EMTTI), Carlos Velez (LCSFP), Jose Augusto
Carvalho (LEGLA), Morag Van Praag (LOAEL), and Fernando Rojas (LCSPR).
This ICR is based on information in the project files and discussions with
government officials of the State of Rio Grande do Sul and with technical staff of the
project implementation unit. To develop a more comprehensive perspective in terms of the
impact of the privatizations, meetings were held with several of the stakeholders in each
sector, including the corresponding regulatory agencies, the concessionaires, and consumer
groups. The discussions and meetings took place from March 15, to March 19, 1999, when
a Bank mission visited Rio Grande do Sul.
Implementation of the project took place during the Borrower's previous
administration. The ICR was prepared with the new administration that took office in
January 1999. The new administration, which espouses a different development strategy,
contributed to the ICR by providing its own evaluation of the project's initial preparation
and execution (see Appendix F) and by providing its views, background material, and
ample support to the ICR mission whenever needed.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE REFORM LOAN
(Ln. 4139-BR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Brazil state reform loans, including the Rio Grande do Sul (RGS) State
Reform Loan, were primarily designed to extend to the state governments some of the
structural reforms that were already being implemented at the federal level. Reducing the
states' fiscal deficits, addressing the high level of indebtedness of the larger Brazilian
states, and improving the provision of services at the state level were all critical elements
in the economic reforms that were being pursued under the Plano Real.
2.    The Bank worked closely with the federal government in identifying and
developing alternative options to address the states' debt crisis.  It also provided
substantial technical assistance to a group of reform-minded state governments in the
diagnosis and design of their overall reform programs, particularly in relation to pension
systems, privatizations, concessions and their regulatory environment, and the fiscal
adjustment component. The Bank also developed four lending operations (Rio Grande do
Sul, Rio de Janeiro, Mato Grosso, and Minas Gerais) that provided both technical and
financial support to individual states as they undertook a set of reforms aimed at
stabilizing their public finances and increasing their efficiency as providers of public
goods and services.
3.    The Rio Grande do Sul Reform Loan was the first one of these operations. As
discussed below, the objectives included fiscal adjustment and privatization. The other
operations placed less emphasis on fiscal adjustment and thus were called State
Privatization Loans. This was the result of emerging evidence that states would not adjust
fiscally in the absence of appropriate incentives and tools, including a hard budget
constraint from the federal government, constitutional amendments relating to
administrative and social security reform, and re-negotiation of state debts. However, the
selected states continued to display strong interest in the Bank's association with their
privatization programs, which became the main focus of all four operations.
4.    Privatization in the four states was pursued as a result of a desired shift in the role
of the state. With privatization, the state governments aimed at reducing their fiscal
exposures with regard to losses in the provision of infrastructure services, improve
investment capacity and service coverage in infrastructure sectors, enhance economic
efficiency in the operation of these sectors, and help meet the governments' financing



ii
needs. These development objectives were the fundamental justification for the Bank's
support of the states' privatization programs.
Project Objectives
5.    The specific objectives of the project were: a) to improve the state's fiscal
condition; and b) to improve the efficiency in the delivery of the state government's
services through (i) the privatization of the state's telecommunication and power
companies; and (ii) the concession of ports, road maintenance, and water production and
distribution. Objective (b) became the chief objective of the operation because originally
expected federal actions to support objective (a), including passage of administrative
reform and effectiveness of the debt refinancing agreement, did not materialize To
accomplish the objectives, the project was designed as an investment loan of US$125
million to be disbursed in three time slices following the successful implementation of a
set of key reforms.' The conditions required for disbursement included: a) actions aimed
at enhancing the state's fiscal performance; and b) the privatization and concessioning of
state services (see Policy Matrix, Table 9). There was a fourth floating disbursement of
US$20 million to be disbursed at an unspecified time provided the concessioning of water
services had taken place. An important omission from the Program was the State's bank
(Banrisul), which the authorities were not prepared to privatize.
6.     Two Project Reviews were programmed before the second and third time-slice
disbursements to assess the state's compliance with the agreed actions. The Project
Reviews included a review of the state's expenditure performance to assess whether it
was consistent with the intentions stated by the RGS government in its Reform Program
Letter to the Bank. The Bank was to assess performance based on a series of targets,
including the debt stock/revenue ratio, personnel expenditures/revenue ratio, and the
types and levels of investment.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Achievement of Project Objectives: Overall, the RGS Reformn Loan was highly
successful in terms of the privatization of the power and telecommunication state-owned
enterprises, the concessioning of roads and port terminals, as well as the establishment of
an adequate regulatory framework that allows the state to monitor the quality of
privately-provided services. The public sector of RGS has been substantially reconfigured
as a result of the privatizations and concessions supported under the RGS Reform loan.
The main impacts thus far resulting from reducing the role of the state in the provision of
services include: a) reductions in the size of the public sector, both in terms of personnel
and operating expenditures; b) high levels of private investment in infrastructure -
specifically in telecommunications, roads and ports -, to improve both access and quality
I     At the time the Brazil state loans were being prepared, sub-national governments were not eligible
for structural adjustment operations (SALs) under the Bank's policies. However, the project's innovative
design overcame this limitation by combining the traditional investment loan with agile disbursement
mechanisms and a set of comprehensive, well-defined policy conditions.



iii
of services2; c) efficiency gains in the delivery of services (particularly through savings in
labor expenditures), thus contributing to the overall competitiveness of the state's
economy; and d) less potential for state bail-outs of non-performing public companies.
The privatization proceeds were maximized by the government's privatization strategy,
amounting to Rs$4.9 billion. The privatization of the water company was not
implemented; thus the US$20 million amount corresponding to that activity was
canceled.
8.     The performance was not satisfactory in terms of the project's overall fiscal
objectives, as the state's public finances have not shown any significant improvement.
Specifically, the RGS government's intentions, as stated in its Reform Program Letter to
the Bank, were to reduce spending in personnel, increase tax collection, develop a sound
investment program, and reduce the stock of debt. These objectives have been only
partially achieved, as there has not been significant improvement in terms of personnel
expenditures and the reduction in the stock of debt.
9.     Despite lack of progress on the fiscal front, the privatization actions have been a
positive development on their own merits. As a result of these privatizations, Rio Grande
do Sul can expect larger investments and growth in the infrastructure sectors and better
and more efficient service delivery. Moreover, the privatizations will have a fiscal benefit
in reduced exposure to financial losses in the delivery of infrastructure services.
10.   Major Factors Affecting the Project: The project was implemented at a fast
pace, with the privatizations and concessions taking place on or ahead of schedule. The
state complied only partially with the agreed fiscal targets. Despite the failure to fully
meet the fiscal targets, the Bank approved the disbursements for the second and third
time-slices based on two reasons.  First, the failure to improve the state's fiscal
performance was largely caused by factors beyond the control of the state, including the
delayed approval of a constitutional amendment removing tenure privileges to public
employees, delays in signing the debt agreement with the federal government (which
delayed a key incentive for fiscal adjustment), and the impact of a newly-enacted federal
law granting state-tax exemptions to exports. Second, the privatizations and concessions
had been implemented highly successfully, surpassing the initial scope of the program.3
This was considered to compensate for the weak level of achievement of fiscal targets.
Although having "soft" fiscal targets added flexibility to the implementation of the
project4, it also introduced a considerable level of discretion into the assessment of fiscal
compliance. The fiscal targets also provided a basis for dialogue with the state on fiscal
matters. Other factors affecting the project included regulatory and other constraints on
2      Nevertheless, the privatizations have not yet resulted in significant changes in the level of reported
customer satsifaction. This could reflect higher tariffs as well as the recent general power blackouts (See
Annex B).
3      The critical action that surpassed the initial scope of the program was the full privatization of
CRT, the telecommunications company, whereas the initial program envisaged the sale of only 35% of its
capital.
4      Fiscal targets under the projects were defined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
The Minutes of Negotiation defined the variables to be monitored during the project reviews.



iv
privatization of the water sector, disputes on two of the nine road concessions, and the
constitutional restrictions on personnel expenditures.
11.    Project Sustainability.  The privatizations are likely to be sustained in the
medium and long term, provided that the independence of the regulatory agency with
respect to the executive branch is maintained.5 The sustainability of the concessions is
also likely, although more dependent on the final delimitation of responsibilities of the
regulatory agency. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that structural changes, such
as those brought about by the privatization and concession programs implemented in
RGS, typically require a long period (perhaps eight to ten years) to be accepted and
consolidated. The radical changes in the political orientation of the RGS government
following the last election are likely to make more difficult the consolidation of the
privatizations and concessions and could possibly undermine the final outcome despite
the initial success in the implementation of these programs.
12.    The sustainability of the state's overall fiscal performance is less certain, as an
adequate system of incentives to induce widespread reform among Brazilian states is not
yet fully in place. For the states to be fiscally responsible in the long run, it is still
necessary to remove the barriers posed by unsustainable pension benefits, as well as
eliminate sources of quasi-deficit financing, including federal bail-outs and periodic debt
re-negotiation agreements6. It is important to acknowledge that, in the absence of a set of
incentives encouraging fiscal adjustment, the financial gains from privatization programs
are likely to be used for deficit financing. In such case, the sale of state-owned
enterprises can result in a loss of a state's net worth. This is likely to have been the case
in Rio Grande do Sul, where capital receipts (loans, privatization) exceeded capital
expenditures (investment, debt amortization, and capitalization of the state's bank).
13.   Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance: The Bank played an
important advisory role to the states and the federal government through technical
assistance and sector work, particularly in relation to the state debt crisis and the overall
reforms strategies in each of the sectors. The Bank's performance was highly satisfactory
with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of project identification and preparation.
Its performance was also highly satisfactory during supervision, working closely with the
state in monitoring the implementation of the specific reforms and performing a pulse-
taking function of the evolution of the fiscal situation. The Borrower's performance was
highly satisfactory regarding project preparation and the implementation of privatizations
5      The current government is currently challenging at the Federal Court the right of the previous
government to nominate the members for fixed terms which do not coincide with the term of government,
and more broadly, the notion that the agency should be "independent" of the executive branch of
government.
6      Much progress is being made through debt rescheduling agreements between the federal and each
state government. These agreements force fiscal adjustment at the state level because debt repayment is
collateralized by the states own revenues and constitutional transfers. Furthermore, the Federal
Government has submitted legislation to Congress that will introduce a greater measure of fiscal
responsibility at all government levels.



v
and concessions. The borrower's commitment to the privatizations and concessions
program was strong, not only because of the revenues it provided, but also because of the
expected improvements in service delivery. Its performance with regard to fiscal
objectives, where the state's commitment was low and the federal incentive framework
was inadequate, was below expectations.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   Overall, the outcome of the project was satisfactory. The main objectives of the
project (privatizations and concessions) were attained. The state's fiscal performance,
however, did not improve. The loan's specific achievements include: a) the privatization
of the telecommunication company; b) the privatization of two energy distribution
company and the transfer to the federal government of a thermal generation plant; c) the
concessioning of ports; d) the concessioning of nine road poles representing 20 percent of
the state's road network; and e) the establishment of a regulatory agency. The RGS
Reform Loan successfully capitalized on the window of opportunity that opened as the
result of having reform-minded administrations at both the state and federal levels.
Nevertheless, privatization of the water sector failed, chiefly due to well-known
regulatory and political constraints, which the project's design acknowledged in tying this
privatization to a floating tranche.
15.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future state reform projects beyond
Brazil, can be learned from the implementation of the RGS State Reform Loan:
16.   Sub-national governments are key elements within the framework of a
country's overall reform program. The medium- and long-term sustainability of a
country's reform program depends on encouraging state governments to become fiscally
responsible and efficient providers of services.
17.   Capitalizing on potential windows of opportunity. Having reform-minded
administrations at both the federal and state governments opens a significant window of
opportunity for reform.  To capitalize on such opportunities, the Bank's technical
assistance and sector work are critical at early stages, during the design of the reform
program.
18.   For the reforms to be sustainable, a consistent system of incentives has to be
in place at the national level. Pension fund and tax reforrns, as well as the elimination
of sources of unsustainable financing, including federal bail-outs, are key prerequisites
for broader state reform, particularly fiscal adjustment.
19.   An adequate regulatory framework at the federal level is a pre-requisite for
the successful implementation of state-level privatization and concession programs.
In the case of Brazil, legislation conducive to increasing private sector participation in the
provision of most services at the state level had been passed the federal level, thus laying
the ground to the successful implementation of the privatizations and concessions
components. The only exception has been in the water and sanitation sector, where the



vi
lack of definition in terms of granting authority and a weak regulatory framework
hampered the state's efforts to privatize the water company.
20.   Focusing on those sub-national governments that are most willing and able to
implement major reforms. This will mitigate in part the risk of reforms being stalled.
21.   Operations should concentrate on a few, significant reforms that are hard to
reverse. Also, the state government should be able to implement the reforms during its
own mandate.
22.   Quick-disbursing loans supporting a well-defined set of reforms can be
effective tools in promoting structural adjustment at the sub-national level. Thus,
the newly-approved structural adjustment instrument, where the Bank can undertake fast
disbursement operations directly to sub-national governments, provides a useful tool.
The experience of Brazil's state reform loans helped trigger the development of this
instrument.
23.   Reform  loans should support the state's own reform  program, thus
maximizing the state's ownership of the project. No lending operation can provide
per se incentives for reform. It can only support the implementation of reforms for which
there is a genuine interest on the part of the state. Strong state interest in privatization and
weak state interest in fiscal adjustment help explain the different outcomes in the two
areas.
24.   Despite the irreversibility of privatization reforms, the project raises the
question on whether greater consensus can be achieved with respect to these
reforms. While the privatizations are unlikely to be reversed, they remain controversial
within the state. Possibly a better job of documenting and ensuring the benefits from
privatization needs to be undertaken to ensure a wider support for the reforms, which
would in turn reinforce their success.
25.   As a condition for disbursement, the Bank should continue to require the
actual sale of public enterprises as opposed to their being "ready for sale." Although
this condition might be unpopular with Borrowers, it minimizes the likelihood of the
reform actions being reversed.
26.   Governments should be encouraged to ensure that the composition of the
regulatory agencies is politically balanced.   The general tendency to make
appointments that are partisan threatens the sustainability of privatizations and
concessions over the medium run, particularly under changing government
administrations.
27.   Implementation confirms, as expected during project preparation, that
development of regulatory agencies is likely to be a slow process. The slow process of
regulatory delegation from other powers, politicization, and internal differences of
opinion on whether the agency should be independent of the executive, remain important



vii
obstacles to a faster development of the agency.
28.   Severance payments are relatively small compared to the savings in payroll
expenses. Although the potential savings in terms of reduced salary and pension bills are
potentially very high, governments are usually cash-strapped and cannot afford to pay
more attractive packages. As a consequence, take-up rates are low and a potential source
for reducing the long-term burden on state governments remains largely untapped. Upon
approval of administrative reforms in 1999, the possibilities of attaining these savings
will have been enhanced.






Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement of Objectives
1.    Towards the early 1990s, the performance of Brazil's economy had deteriorated
significantly, relative to the impressive performance recorded during the post-war period
until the early 1980s. Inflation, now chronic, continued to rise, reaching peaks of 81
percent and 47 percent per month (IGP-DI) in 1990 and 1994 respectively. Low rates of
economic growth and investment had resulted in economic stagnation and even greater
income disparities. Successive stabilization plans had been introduced during the 1980s,
most of them with price and wage freeze components. However, they all failed to contain
prices over sustained periods of time as they were not accompanied by the structural
reforms needed to reduce the role of the state in the economy, downsize the public sector,
and tackle the large fiscal and quasi-fiscal deficits, all key factors underlying the
deterioration of the economy.
2.    As clearly pointed out by the Bank's sector work, the poor performance of
Brazilian states has contributed to exacerbating macroeconomic instability.' Its negative
impact on the overall economy was twofold. First, Brazilian states play an important role
in the provision of services, being responsible for about one third of Brazil's public
spending. However, they have been ill-prepared to fulfill their responsibilities and have
also been a chronic source of fiscal imbalance and inefficient spending, mainly as a result
of substantial overstaffing, inadequate administrative controls and weak state budgeting
mechanisms. Second, as a result of fiscal mismanagement, the indebtedness of Brazil
states had reached crisis proportions, amounting to US$110 billion in 1995, almost half
of which was in default.
3.    In 1994, the Cardoso administration began a wide range of structural reforms,
including the privatization of national public enterprises and the liberalization of
economic activities, to complement the stabilization plan initiated under the previous
administration -- the Plano Real.8 Constitutional amendments were also being sought to
reform the social security system, administrative rules, and taxation. The successful
implementation of these reforms was critical to ensure economic adjustment and to
sustain the low-inflation regime that was achieved through the Plano Real.
4.    The state governnents posed a serious threat to the sustainability of the Plano
Real. On the one hand, the reforms already being implemented at the federal level had to
be extended to the state governments, given their high share of the public sector
expenditures. However, under Brazil's federal system, states are highly autonomous and
most of the needed reforms were outside the jurisdiction of the federal government. The
7     "Brazil State Debt: Crisis and Reform," November 14, 1995. Report 14842-BR.
8     The Plano Real was developed under Itamar Franco's administration, with President Cardoso
(then Minister of Finance) being one of its main architects.



2
federal government also faced a difficult choice in terms of how to handle the state debt,
most of which was owed by the economically most important states in the country to
federal agencies, including the federal treasury, the Central Bank and the Banco do
Brasil. Forcing the defaulting states into bankruptcy could have a crippling effect on the
national economy and the financial system. On the other hand, allowing the state debt to
keep on growing would have equally adverse consequences, forcing the federal
government to dramatically reduce its own spending, raise taxes, or resort to inflationary
financing.
5.    In its efforts to consolidate the price stability achieved under the Plano Real, the
federal government sought the Bank's assistance to develop an overall strategy towards
the states aimed at: a) developing a debt workout to defuse the immediate debt crisis; and
b) extending the structural reforms to the state governments.9 The Bank worked closely
with the federal government in identifying and developing alternative options to address
the state debt crisis. It also provided substantial technical assistance to a group of state
governments in the diagnosis and design of their overall reform programs, particularly in
relation to pension systems, privatizations, concessions and their regulatory environment,
and the fiscal adjustment component. The Bank also developed four lending operations
that provided both technical and financial support to individual states as they undertook a
set of reforms aimed at stabilizing their public finances and increasing their efficiency as
providers of public goods and services. The Rio Grande do Sul Reform Loan was the first
of these operations that was approved.
6.     The State of Rio Grande do Sul (RGS) is one of the largest states in the country,
accounting for 7.5 percent of Brazil's GDP. Although RGS's level of economic
development is above Brazil's average, its recent economic performance had been
disappointing, with a GDP per capita growth of -- 1.5 percent in 1995. RGS faced much
of the same challenges as many other Brazilian states, including large fiscal deficits,
excessive levels of public employment, poor tax collection, low levels of investment in
infrastructure, and inefficient service delivery. The state resources were also being
drained by inefficient public enterprises, insolvent state banks, and insufficiently-
financed state pension funds. With a reform-minded administration recently elected, the
state had undertaken a series of reforms aimed at reversing the deterioration of the state's
infrastructure and its public sector. The overall objective of the RGS Reform Loan was
to support the state in the implementation of these reforms.
7.     The RGS Reform  Loan 's objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR, January 24, 1997), were:
a)    to improve the state's fiscal condition; and
b)    to improve the efficiency in the delivery of the state government's services
9      Another key component in resolving the debt crisis is also the elimination of incentives for
irresponsible state borrowing, including the elimination of defacto federal guarantees of all private lending
and an ingrained tradition of debt renegotiations and bail-outs on the part of the federal government.



3
through:
i)    the privatization of the state's telecommunications and power
companies; and
ii)    the concession of ports, road maintenance, and water production
and distribution.
Objective (b) became the major focus of the operation, as well as of the other SRLs that
followed. This occurred because key conditions for achieving objective (a) became
limited by the absence of an enforceable debt agreement and of constitutional reforms
facilitating flexibility in personnel expenditures, including wages and retirement
benefits.'"
8.    To accomplish these objectives, the project was designed as an investment loan of
US$125 million to be disbursed against three time-slice project costs following the
successful implementation of a set of key reforms. The first time-slice disbursement of
US$50 million was programmed to take place shortly after the loan was declared
effective (see Table 3). The second and third time-slice disbursements of US$50 million
and US$25 million respectively were expected to take place by mid FY96 and before the
end of FY98, provided that the state was in compliance with the agreed policy actions and
conditions. The conditions required for disbursement included: a) actions aimed at
enhancing the state's fiscal performance; and b) the privatization/concessioning of state
infrastructure services (see Policy Matrix, Table 9), including telecommunications, water,
energy, roads, and ports . There was a fourth floating disbursement of US$20 million to
be disbursed at an unspecified time provided the concessioning of water services had
taken place.
9.    The Bank advised the Government to also privatize the State Bank, Banrisul.
Nevertheless the Government was not prepared to undertake this privatization, due to
likely political opposition, to concerns about difficulties in selling the Bank, and to a
desire to maintain the Bank as an instrument of state economic policy. Failure to agree on
privatization of the Bank resulted in a smaller amount of Bank financial support for the
State's program. The bank remains in state ownership and is unlikely to be privatized in
the near future.
10.   Two Project Reviews were programmed before the second and third time-slice
disbursements to assess the state's compliance with the agreed actions. The Project
Reviews included a review of the state's expenditure performance to assess whether it
was consistent with the intentions stated by the RGS government in its Reform Program
Letter to the Bank. In this Letter, the RGS government indicated its intention to enhance
'0    The loan's design incorporated these contingencies. The minutes of negotiation subjected
compliance with personnel expenditures and debt targets respectively, to passage of administrative reform
and the provisions of the debt agreement. Administrative reform is likely to pass only in 1999. The debt
agreement became effective only in November 1998. The RGS government is challenging the vailidity of
the agreement.



4
the efficiency of public expenditures and to achieve fiscal restraint through a series of
actions, including reducing personnel costs and improving tax administration. The Bank
was to assess performance based on a series of targets, including the debt stock/revenue
ratio, personnel expenditures/revenue ratio, and the types and levels of investment (see
Table 10).
11.   The project's design effectively supported the objectives. At the time the Brazil
state loans were being prepared, sub-national governments were not eligible for structural
adjustment operations (SALs) under Bank policies. However, the project's innovative
design overcame this limitation by combining the traditional investment loan format with
an agile disbursement mechanism and a set of well-defined policy conditions. The
floating disbursement that was designated for the water concessions also proved to be an
effective mechanism to account for the higher uncertainty regarding that particular
component. Conditionality regarding privatization (effective sale rather than bringing to
point of sale) also proved appropriate. Conditionality on fiscal adjustment, while
appropriate, was limited in its effect to delays in achieving debt refinancing agreements
and approving needed constitutional reforms.
B.    Achievement of Overall Project Objectives
12.   The RGS Reform Loan has been highly successful in terms of the privatization of
the power and telecommunication state-owned enterprises, the concessioning of roads
and port terminals, as well as the establishment of an adequate regulatory framework that
allows the state to monitor the quality of privately-provided services. The privatization
of the water company was not implemented; thus the US$20 million amount
corresponding to that activity was canceled. The performance was less satisfactory in
terms of the project's overall fiscal objectives, as the state's public finances did not show
a significant improvement.
13.   Macroeconomic Policies: Partial Achievement. One of the objectives of the
reforms supported by the RGS Reform Loan was to improve the state's fiscal position to
ultimately contribute to improve the country's overall fiscal performance. Specifically,
the RGS government's intentions, as stated in its Reform Program Letter to the Bank,
were to reduce spending in personnel, increase tax collection, develop a sound investment
program, and reduce the stock of debt. These objectives have been only partially
achieved, as there have not been significant improvement in terms of personnel
expenditures or in reducing the stock of debt (see Table 10).
14.   Specifically, the Reform Letter presented by the State describing its reform
program specified five fiscal targets: i) growth in net current revenues; ii) personnel
expenditures as a percentage of net current revenues; iii) stock of debt/revenue ratio; iv)
productivity of investment; and v) consistency of investment levels and investment
financing with debt-revenue targets. Achievement of these targets was partial (see Table
11 and Annex A). In 1997, the state did not meet three of these targets: growth in
revenues, reductions in personnel expenditures, and declines in debt/revenues ratio. By



5
1998, the targets with regard to reductions in personnel expenditures and declines in the
debt/revenue ratio had not yet been met"1. However, the growth in net current revenues
surpassed the corresponding target by 7 percent, mainly due to a growth in transfers and a
rebound in ICMS during the second semester. As a result of a comprehensive debt
agreement with the National Government, the stock of bonds was reduced significantly,
although the total stock of debt has increased with respect to 1996, despite the proceeds
from the privatizations and a Rs$1.645 billion debt forgiveness by the federal
government. The increase in debt has been mainly the result of three factors: a) excessive
primary deficits (i.e., 20.3 percent and 23.2 percent of net current revenues in 1997 and
1998 respectively);   b) an increase in borrowing from  PROES  to assist in the
restructuring of the state financial institutions; and c) the due-interest burden on the high
levels of accumulated debt. Personnel expenditures as a proportion of net current
revenues have decreased from 85.4 percent in 1998 to 81 percent in 1998, but mainly as a
result of an increase in revenues due to transfers.
15.   Financial Objectives: Substantial Achievement.   The privatizations and
concessions supported under the RGS Reform Loan generated significant financial gains
for the state. Specifically, the privatization of telecommunications and energy state
enterprises implemented under the RGS Reform has generated proceeds amounting to
Rs$4.9 billion (see Table 12). The state's privatization strategy seems to have been
predominantly oriented towards maximizing the sales value of the companies sold.12 In
this regard, the government's actions have been very successful, in part because the sales
were undertaken prior to the devaluation of the Real and the full impact of the Asian
crisis. Indeed, the privatization of the electricity distributors, as measured relative to the
minimum reserve price and size of the companies, was one of the most successful in the
country. An additional impact of the sale of two distributors and the thermal generator
has been the transfer of 2,500 employees to the successor companies.
16.   In terms of the port concessions, the major immediate impacts are the positive
revenue impact -of the terminal lease payments and the fiscal impact of reducing
personnel costs. The total rental income from private lease contracts have doubled
between 1997 and 1998, from Rs$3.7 million to Rs$7.4 million. Rental income from
private parties now covers about 30 percent of the port's operating costs. In terms of
personnel, the number of employees at the Port Superintendence (SUPRG) has been
"1     There was technical compliance with the loan conditions because achievement of the targets under
the project, which was assessed with information through May 1998, was subject to two events that did not
materialize: a) the reduction of personnel expenditures was contingent on approval of administrative
reforms, which did not materialize; b) the reduction of the stock of debt was contingent on finalization of
the debt agreement, which did not occur until late in 1998. As the debt agreement was not finalized during
the life of the loan, the debt agreement did not constrain investment expenditures or investment financing.
Although efforts to increase revenues did not take place, revenues were also adversely affected by federal
legislation exempting exports from the ICMS tax, the main item in states' revenues.
12     The maximization is of course subject to the parameters given by the regulatory environment,
particularly with regard to tariffs, emerging competition, including, for example, an established cellular
service competitor, and the likely introduction of parallel networks that compete with the existing fixed-
line incumbents.



6
reduced from 1089 employees at the beginning of 1996 to 302 by the end of 1998. As a
result, current expenditures for SUPRG have decreased from about Rs$27 million in 1996
to Rs$24 million in 1999, a decline of approximately 10 percent in three years.
Reduction in personnel expenditures are expected to continue over the next few years as
the payment obligations resulting from the voluntary dismissal programs reach their end.
(They are currently the largest expenditure item, accounting for 63 percent of current
expenditures.)
17.   The financial impact of the roads concessions occurs mainly in terms of the state's
savings on road maintenance, which are now the responsibility of the concessionaires.
These savings are discussed below under "Physical Objectives."
18.   Physical Objectives: Substantial Achievement. The reforms introduced under
the RGS Reform Loan have been conducive to higher levels of investment in
infrastructure, with both public and private funds. In terms of public investments, which
were subject to the project reviews, the state's capital expenditures increased from
Rs$500 million in 1996 to Rs$1.346 billion in 1998 (in real terms). These higher levels
of capital investments were partly financed with the privatization proceeds. Investments
were primarily focused on road maintenance, basic health and education facilities, and
municipal investments, all of them with high economic and social returns (see Table 11).
The only questionable investments were two low-interest rate loans to GM and its feeder
companies and Ford for Rs$253 million and Rs$307 million respectively, as incentives to
locate their assembly plants in the state. As opportunely pointed out by the Bank, it is
questionable whether these loans are justified in terms of the economic and social
benefits they will bring to the state. The assistance has also been questioned by the
newly-elected government.
19.  In terms of private investments, one of the objectives pursued through the
privatization of the state companies and the concessioning of roads and ports was to
channel private investments into infrastructure. The roads and port concessions have been
very successful in this regard. Investments in road maintenance are expected to amount
up to Rs$2.2 billion over the 15-year concession term, almost twice as much as was
projected during the technical studies (see Table 13). In the case of the port concession
program, the lease contract also allows the private terminal operators to expand their
facilities to keep pace with the growth in cargo.
20.   The privatization of the telecommunications company has resulted in a
considerable increase in the number of cellular and fixed connections, and public phones,
with a rate of increase of 261 percent, 67 percent and 125 percent respectively.
Investments reached Rs$924 million in 1998, with further investments of Rs$587 million
and Rs$426 expected for 1999 and 2000. At the same time, quality of service does not
seem to have suffered unduly, unlike the systems in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro where
the quality of service declined as a result of the increase in the number of new
connections. In the case of the distribution power companies, access to setvice is
virtually complete in urban areas at 99.5 percent, and relatively high in the rural areas at



7
86 percent. Despite the failed concession attempt, the water company has taken some
actions to improve its service delivery. The major difficulty has been in extending its
sewerage network and treatment facilities, now serving only 18 percent of the state
population. No public investments are likely to take place, however, given the federal
government's strong policies with regard to state-owned water companies.
21.   Public Sector Reform: Substantial Achievement. The RGS public sector has
been favorably reconfigured as a result of the privatizations and concessions supported
under the RGS Reform loan. The main impacts resulting from reducing the role of the
state in the provision of services include: a) reductions in the size of the public sector,
both in terms of personnel and operating expenditures; b) higher levels of private
investment in infrastructure (specifically in telecommunications, roads, and ports) to
improve both access and quality of services; c) efficiency gains in the delivery of
services, particularly through savings in labor expenditures, thus contributing to the
overall competitiveness of the state's economy; and d) less potential for the need of state
bail-outs of non-performing public companies.
22.   The state government implemented a voluntary departure program for state or
state-enterprise employees, during the first half of 1996. The program was very
successful in RGS relative to other Brazilian states, achieving a total reduction of almost
11,400 employees, equivalent to 6.6 percent of the total number of state employees in
1996. Severance payments, which were small relative to the payroll and pension savings,
were one of the expenditures financed under the RGS Reform Loan.'3
23.   In the area of public services, two major privatizations were undertaken, namely,
the state-owned telecommunications company - CRT --, and two electricity distribution
companies representing approximately two-thirds of the state's territory. A further
component of the electricity company, its thermal generation assets, representing 490
MW of capacity, were transferred to the Federal Government as part of a debt-swap
agreement. An additional component of these reforms was the establishment of a cross-
sectoral regulatory agency, known as AGERGS, which was to be responsible for
regulating the public services in the State. The failed privatization of CORSAN was the
unsuccessful part of the privatization program.
24.   The government's strategy was to sell the companies as "clean" as possible in
terms of debt and number of employees. Through the program of voluntary dismissals,
the state also achieved significant reductions in the number of employees in public
enterprises. As a result, all companies now shown notable gains in productivity.
Specifically, the number of employees per 1,000 connections fell from 4.0 in 1996 to 3.0
in 1997 in the telecommunication company. Similar improvements in productivity have
been achieved in the power and water companies, with the number of connections per
1 3   "Brazil: From stability to growth through public employment," Report No. 16793-BR, World
Bank, Feb. 1998; and "Programa de Demissoes Voluntarias (PDV): Avalia,ao da Experiencia Recente dos
Estados Brasileiros, " Coordenacdo Geral de Acompanhamento de Estados, Ministerio da Fazenda, Sept.
1997.



8
employee rising from 284 and 299 in 1995 to 567 and 412 in 1998 respectively.
25.   The concessions of ports and roads have been equally successful, with almost 90
percent of the port and more than 20 percent of the state's road network now being in the
hands of private operators. The specific achievements of the individual privatizations and
concessions are described below.
26.   Telecommunication Company: Unlike the other states, where telephone service
was until recently provided by federally-owned subsidiaries of the Telebras system, RGS
owned 85.4 percent of its local telephone company, the Companhia Riograndense das
Telecomunicaqoes (CRT). The main objective of its privatization was to meet the
considerable unmet demand (estimated in January, 1997 to be around 700,000 fixed lines
and 300,000 cellular connections), as well as develop more sophisticated services such as
data transmission, video conferencing and internet access. The privatization of CRT was
undertaken in two tranches, 35 percent being sold in December 1996 to a consortium
headed by Telef6nica de Espana. The group paid Rs$681 million foT the stake. The
remainder of the government's shares were later sold to the same consortium in June
1998 for Rs$1.176 million. This additional divestiture was not part of the original
program agreed with the government under the loan. The result has been a considerable
increase in the number of cellular and fixed connections and public phones, and
substantial investments are taking, beginning with Rs$923 million in 1998. At the same
time, the quality of service seems to have remained constant or improved marginally,
despite stable levels in the degree of customer satisfaction.
27.   Energy Company: The privatization of two of the distribution entities that were
sold when CEEE was restructured was also successful, generating significant revenues
for the state, happening as it did fortunately before the devaluation of the Real in January
1999 greatly decreased the dollar value of assets in Brazil, and reduced access to the
international capital market. Although there has been some move to increase the number
of connections, the numbers are not large in comparison with the increase in connections
in telecommunications. Quality of service and productivity have also improved,
particularly in terms of reduced duration and frequency of interruptions. Nevertheless,
reported customer satisfaction has declined, partly as a result of the recent national
blackouts (Annex B). In terms of regulatory and other issues, the companies seem
concerned with what they regard as "unfair" competition with the rural cooperatives that
have been expanding into urban areas. CEEE has also suffered because of the fact that it
still maintains excess liabilities (the distribution companies were sold largely free of
debt), and the previous govermment took some of the capital it had otherwise promised to
reduce these liabilities and used it for other purposes. The company is now suffering
financially as a result.
14    "Brazil: From stability to growth through public employment," Report No. 16793-BR, World
Bank, Feb. 1998; and "Programa de Demissoes Voluntarias (PD V): Avalia9ao da Experiencia Recente dos
Estados Brasileiros, " Coordena,do Geral de Acompanhamento de Estados, Ministerio da Fazenda, Sept.
1997.



9
28.   Water Company: The failed attempt to partially privatize CORSAN was the
most unsuccessful of the reform efforts of the government. Despite extensive discussions
and a review of possible reform options, the government's final decision to sell 49
percent of the government's stake was shelved as the election approached. Consequently,
there are currently no plans to significantly reform CORSAN, and hence it is likely to
remain inefficient and starved of funds with which to invest in sewerage. These
difficulties are likely to be exacerbated by possible moves of certain municipalities to opt
out of CORSAN's service provision.
29.   Road Concessions: DAER successfully awarded 9 "concession poles" to the
private sector in its innovative road concession program. Concessionaires will invest
approximately Rs$2.2 billion for the rehabilitation and maintenance of about 2,500 km.
of state roads (approximately 30 percent of its paved network) over the 15 year term
concession contract term. However, there are two concessions that have been awarded
but not implemented because of disagreements with the Government (see Annex D). If
these concessions do not proceed, the state will still have fiscal savings of up to Rs$1.7
billion for 20 percent of its paved network over the term of the concession contract. The
concession program should also provide broader benefits to the state's economic
development through improved road conditions and lower vehicle operating costs (less
wear and tear on autos and trucks). The concession projects appear to be sustainable in
the future, although conflicts have already arisen between the new RGS government and
concessionaires regarding tariff adjustments and the interpretation of the financial-
economic equilibrium clause in the concession contract. How these conflicts are
managed will depend on another potential problem between the authority of AGERGS to
set tariffs and the tariff adjustment and dispute resolution mechanisms provided in the
concession contract.  The concession contract gives DAER a major role in these
activities.  The primary lesson leamed is the need to develop more detailed,
unambiguous, and transparent concession contracts that provide better definitions of
critical clauses, such as the financial-economic equilibrium, and that are more consistent
with the law that established AGERGS.
30.   Port Concessions: The Superintendencia do Porto do Rio Grande (SUPRG)
successfully awarded concessions to most of its remaining publicly-operated terminals
and facilities by the end of 1997. It entered into concession agreements" for the
Petroleum and Container Piers and the Wheat and Soy Terminal which comprise over 76
percent of the port cargo movements. SUPRG was not able to find sufficient interest in
the Refrigeration, Liquid Bulk and Storage Warehouse, which remains under public
operation. The latter facilities only provide a small amount of the port's total cargo
movements. With the completion of the above concessions, the port is over 90 percent
operated by private parties, with almost 100 percent of its cargo movements provided by
private operators. In the aftermath of privatization, the National Association of Industries
considered Porto Rio Grande (PRG) as one the three best performers of the 13 largest
Is    The concession agreements are called "Rental Contracts," which have an initial term of 15 years,
renewable for another 15 years. They are long-term leases that allow the contractor to expand the facilities
based on business growth.



10
Brazilian ports. Private operations will keep Porto Rio Grande (PRG) competitive with
other large regional ports (Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Santos and Paranagua). Private
operators can keep the port competitive through better use of port resources, management
of the flexible work rules created under the 1993 port reform law, and access to capital
for investment in port facilities, as contemplated in the leasing contracts. The ability of
the private operators to invest in new facilities will allow PRG to continue to expand its
facilities to accommodate the increasing growth in general cargo and containers. The
PRG experienced an average annual growth rate of 7 percent per year in general
merchandise and over 26 percent growth rate in containers between 1995 and 1998, the
years when the major terminal facilities were transferred to private operators.
31.   Regulatory Agency:  As part of the privatization process, the Government
established a regulatory agency, AGERGS, whose council is a "representative" one where
three members are appointed by the Government (although one of the nominations was
rejected by the Legislative Assembly during the nomination process), two members are
nominated by consumer groups, one by the concessionaires, and one which is due to be
appointed by the employees of the agency. The process of establishment of the agency
was a gradual one because many of its powers were to be delegated to it by other
authorities, such as the federal regulatory authorities. The agency has started to monitor
the quality of infrastructure services, resolve disputes, and conduct other regulatory
activities regarding the services over which it has responsibility. Its activities are,
however, presently overshadowed by a larger political dispute about the question of
whether fixed terms are appropriate for commissioners of a regulatory commission, or
whether their mandate should be determined by political decisions. The politicization of
the debate seems to have been caused in part by the political background of a number of
the appointed commissioners. The consequence of the political debate about the
regulatory agency is a court case in which the current government is seeking to annul the
appointment of the government-appointed commissioners and appoint its own.
AGERGS has been slow to receive delegated powers (it only recently received an
agreement to regulate certain aspects of electricity supply in the state from the Federal
regulatory authority, ANEEL) and is now embroiled in a dispute with the Government
about whether certain commissioners should be removed prior to the end of their
appointments.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
32.   The loan was implemented at a fast pace, with the three time-slice disbursements
disbursed roughly when anticipated (see Table 3). Although an investment loan, the RGS
Reform Loan operated very much like a structural adjustment operation (SAL),
disbursing "for" reforms and "against" a number of eligible expenditures. As in the case
of successful SALs in general, the strong commitment of the state administration towards
the privatization and concession reforms being pursued was key to the successful
implementation of the privatization component supported by the loan. In this way,
having the life of the loan coincide with the mandate of the state administration was an
optimal strategy. Other factors affecting the implementation of the project are described



11
below:
33.   Swift implementation of privatizations and concessions. The level of compliance
of the conditions for disbursement was highly satisfactory for the privatizations and
concessions but less satisfactory in terms of the state's fiscal performance. Specifically,
the progress towards the privatizations was made at a fast pace, with the
telecommunication company being privatized as anticipated and the two distribution
companies were privatized several months ahead of schedule. Furthermore, the
telecommunication company was fully privatized, in lieu of the partial privatization
envisaged under the agreed program. The road concessions were also completed earlier,
with the state bidding all nine poles simultaneously rather than in two stages as required
by the loan conditionality.
34.   Partial achievement offiscal targets. As discussed above, compliance with fiscal
targets was met only partially. Specifically, the target related to growth in revenues was
not met in 1997, and those related to reductions in personnel expenditures and declines in
debt/revenue ratio were not met in 1997 or 1998. Despite the failure to fully meet these
targets, the Bank approved the disbursements for the second and third-time slices based
on two reasons. First, the more modest improvement of the state's fiscal situation was
largely caused by factors beyond the control of the state, including the constitutional
amendment protecting tenure of public employees, delays in signing the debt agreement
with the federal government, and a newly-enacted federal law granting state-tax
exemptions to exports. Second, the privatizations and concessions had been implemented
highly successfully, at a faster rate and with a wider scope, which was considered to
compensate for the shortcomings in meeting fiscal targets.
35.   Level of discretionality in the project's Fiscal Reviews: The fact that the fiscal
targets were not directly stipulated in the loan agreement -- they were instead defined in
the Letter of Reform -- had both positive and negative consequences. On the one hand, it
provided the flexibility necessary to proceed with disbursements despite the shortcomings
in the state's fiscal performance which, by nature, depends on a variety of factors beyond
the control of the state, such as macroeconomic conditions. The targets also were
intended to provide, as they in fact did throughout the preparation and implementation
process, a basis for dialogue on fiscal issues with the state. On the other hand, it added an
amount of discretion into the assessment of conditionality compliance, possibly having
the effect of weakening the fiscal conditionalities. (It would have been arguably less
justified to stop disbursements, given the success of the privatizations and concessions.)
36.   The failure to reform water and sanitation services: It was clear throughout the
preparation of the loan that the reform of the water company would be more difficult.
This fact was taken into account in the design of the project by setting aside a single
floating tranche of US$20 million for the accomplishment of the water reform component
of the loan. The difficulties faced by RGS regarding the implementation of water and
sanitation reforms were very much the same as in the other Brazilian states, including
unclear definition of granting authority, weak regulatory framework, high capital costs of



12
service expansion, cross-subsidy systems across municipalities, and strong vested
interests in maintaining public ownership of the company.
37.   Problems with the roads concessions: The state awarded the nine concession
poles, but only seven of these are currently in operation because of events that occurred
during the concession process. Two concessions, Pelotas and Santa Maria, were awarded
but suspended. In the Pelotas concession, three municipalities wanted to extend the
amount of secondary roads maintained by the concessionaire. A financial feasibility
study was done to evaluate the financial impact on the concessionaire's rate of return.
Because of increased concessionaire investment, the consultants recommended adding
another toll plaza to the "concession pole" to maintain the "financial-economic
equilibrium" of the concession contract.'6 DAER and the concessionaire still have not
reached an agreement on this issue. In the Santa Maria concession, the state was
responsible for re-surfacing two segments of the highway network included in this
concession pole. The state did not complete the work, so the concessionaire did not begin
its improvements. DAER is studying various options to resolve this impasse, such as re-
negotiating the contract, imposing penalties on the concessionaire, or canceling the
concession contract.
38.    Constitutional restrictions: As noted above, reductions in personnel expenditures
have fallen short of expectations and, at 81 percent of current revenues, they pose a
structural barrier to achieving an improved fiscal performance that can be sustained over
the medium and long terms. Constitutional amendments were required to implement two
critical reforms, the administrative and social security reforms. The administrative
reform, removing mandatory tenure in civil service, was not passed during the life of the
loan. However, even after its likely passage in 1999, the new government is unlikely to
take actions to capitalize on this newly-acquired flexibility. The social security reform
would allow states to reduce social security benefits by removing the provision requiring
that retiree benefits equal to 100 percent of their last salaries, reducing cumulative
benefits, introducing a minimum age requirement, and making provisions for the
verification of contributions. In the case of RGS, pension expenditures account for 34
percent of current revenues and continue to rise. The critical constitutional amendment
eliminating the 100 percent rule was not passed and it is unlikely to be approved in the
short and medium terms.
D.    Project Costs
39.   The loan was designed to help finance expenditures related to the Government's
reform project. The costs of the project comprised expenditures in four areas: a) goods,
works, consultant services and training; b) severance payments; c) grants; and d)
16     Brazilian Federal and Rio Grande State concession laws provide for the concessionaire to
maintain a "reasonable" rate of return on its investment. If circumstances change that disrupt that return, it
has the right to further compensation to return to the financial-economic "equilibrium" indicated in the
concession contract. There are significant issues associated with this concept which are discussed in
Annex D.



13
incremental recurrent cost of reforms on a declining basis. The loan disbursed chiefly
against expenditures on severance payments and grants during 1997 and 1998. Although
total project costs were not systematically accounted, data of the cost of several
components indicate that the state incurred considerable expenditures to implement its
reform program and that the RGS Reform Loan provided highly-needed financial support
(see Table 5.a and 5.b).
E.    Project Sustainability
40.   The privatizations of the telecommunication and power distribution companies are
likely to be sustained over the long run, as privatizations are generally difficult to reverse
and the Government is in no condition to repurchase these companies. The sustained
adequacy of privatization will depend on the sustainability of the regulatory agency, and
specifically on whether it overcomes the legal challenge the current government has
placed at the Federal Court. The government is challenging the right of the previous
government to nominate the AGERGS council members for fixed terms which do not
coincide with the term of government, and more broadly, the notion that the agency
should be "independent" of the executive branch of government.
41.   The sustainability of the concessions is also likely, although more dependent on
the final delimitation of responsibilities of the regulatory agency. As pointed out above,
the concession contracts lack definition with regard to a number of aspects, including
those factors that might affect the contract's financial-economic equilibrium."7 This lack
of definition leaves room for conflicting views between the concessionaires and the
government, which will most likely be resolved in the courts.
42.   Nevertheless, it is important to point out that structural changes, such as those
brought about by the privatization and concession programs implemented in RGS,
typically require a long period (perhaps eight to ten years) to be accepted. For instance,
even now 10 ten years after the privatization of water and other utilities in England and
Wales, the majority of the population neither understands nor sympathizes with the
reasons for privatization and many people still refer to the "Gas, Electricity, or Water
Board."  In the case of RGS, the radical changes in the political orientation of the
government are likely to make more difficult the acceptance of the privatizations and
concessions and possibly undermine the final outcome of such programs despite the
initial success in their implementation.
43.   The sustainability of the state's overall fiscal performance is less certain, as an
adequate system of incentives to induce widespread reform among Brazilian states is not
yet fully in place. Although the states have now more flexibility to "right-size" their
administrations after the passage of the administrative reform, the pension fund reform is
still pending. It is unlikely that the Cardoso administration will attain the broad political
support required to pass the corresponding constitutional amendment in the short and
medium terms. In the meantime, unfunded pension liabilities continue to drain the state's
1 7    See footnote 4 for a brief description of the financial-economic equilibrium concept.



14
finances, amounting to 34 percent of current revenues. The conflict between the states
and the federal government regarding state debt is also unresolved, as illustrated by the
actions recently taken by the states of Minas Gerais and RGS. Even after the last re-
negotiation, debt service from the former "divida mobiliaria" is still high (in RGS, debt
service obligations amounted to 26 percent of current revenues in 1998). As a result, the
state continued to be a generator of public deficit in 1998 and, given the history of federal
bail-outs and debt renegotiations, it could well fail to undertake needed reforms in the
near future. Nevertheless, a stronger budget constraint emerging from a firm federal
enforcement of the debt refinancing agreement (which collateralizes debt service with
revenue sharing) could finally put an end to the state's unsustainable deficit financing.
Furthermore, the recent devaluation of the Real amidst fears of a macroeconomic crisis,
together with the recent re-election of President Cardoso on a reform-based platform,
offer a window of opportunity for the federal government to push for needed federal
reforms while indeed maintaining a strong stand with state governments.
44.   It is importarit to acknowledge that, in the absence of a set of incentives
encouraging fiscal adjustment, the financial gains from privatization programs are likely
to be used for deficit financing. In such case, the sale of state-owned enterprises have
been rightly viewed as a loss in the state's net worth, with overall capital receipts
(including privatization proceeds) exceeding capital expenditures (Table 10).
F.    Bank Performance
45.   Project Identification: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank correctly diagnosed the
need to extend public sector reforms already being implemented at the federal level to the
state governments. Only a reduced group of states -- Rio de Janeiro, Mato Grosso, Minas
Gerais, and Rio Grande so Sul -- was selected based both on the perceived willingness to
privatize their enterprises and reform of their administrations and on their relative fiscal
importance.
46.   Project Preparation: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's performance was highly
satisfactory with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of project, identifying an
ambitious Policy Matrix that operationalized the major aspects of the state government's
reform strategy. The Bank worked in close collaboration with individuals in the national
and state governments and maintained a high degree of coordination between the different
Bank divisions coordinating actions and specialists in the different sectors.
47.   Project Appraisal: Satisfactory. During appraisal, the Bank took into account
various risks that could affect the project and set up mechanisms within the project to
mitigate them, including a floating tranche tied to the more uncertain reforms in the water
sector. Given the size of the states' economies and their wide differences in terms of
socio-economic and demographic variables, direct lending to individual states was
deemed the most effective strategy -- as opposed to a loan "a la PRL-I" (First Provincial
Reform Loan) in Argentina, which spread the risk among several provinces. Although
more effective in terms of concentrating resources, this strategy is also more risky, as the



15
likelihood of the reforms being stalled in one particular state are substantial. (The higher
level of risk was illustrated by the experience of the Minas Gerais state loan, which was
never signed.)
48.    An important question being raised by the experience of the RGS Reform Loan is
whether it is appropriate to proceed with a state reform loan in the absence of an adequate
system of incentives that promotes responsible fiscal performance. Although considerable
progress had been made under President Cardoso's reform program, strong incentives for
fiscal adjustment at the state level were not yet in place at the time of appraisal. The
achievement of the RGS Reform Loan's fiscal objectives was negatively affected by
constitutional restrictions on personnel and pension expenditures at the national level.
There is little doubt that the gains in efficiency, competitiveness, and private investments
in infrastructure that were achieved as a result of the privatizations and concessions
merited a Bank operation in RGS. However, a "state privatization loan" might have had
a different level of lending than the "state reform loan."
49.    Project Supervision: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the
Borrower, assessing the overall evolution of the state reform program, as well as
monitoring the progress being made towards each of the conditionalities. Individual
supervision missions were reported by the Borrower as being highly satisfactory and
described as a team effort between the Bank and the Borrower. The Bank provided
strong support during the implementation of the loan, moving quickly to accelerate the
disbursement of the corresponding time-slice disbursements and providing technical
assistance as requested."8 The periodic Bank assessment of the state's finances conducted
as part of the Project Reviews provided a close pulse-taking of the state's financial
situation.
G.    Borrower Performance
50.   Preparation of the Project: Highly Satisfactory. The RGS Reform Loan was
the first of the Brazilian state loans to be approved as a result of the high level of
cooperation on the part of the state. In fact, the state played a very active role in the
preparation of the project, which was designed to support the state's own reform
program. The state had a high level of ownership of the project, particularly in regard to
the privatization component.
51.   Project Implementation: Satisfactory. The strong commitment of the state
government towards privatization and administrative reforms supported under the project
was critical to their swift implementation.  The RGS State Reform  Program  was
implemented under the State Governor's direction and the Planning Secretariat's
18     The substantial technical support provided by the Bank to the state as they prepared their state
reform plans continued during the implementation of the loan. Supervision missions regularly included
sector specialists to provide technical advise to the state, even in areas that were not specifically included in
the project. (For instance, a financial advisor was incorporated to the Sept., 1997 supervision mission to
provide advise at the government's request on the restructuring of the state's public financial system, which
was not a project component).



16
coordination. Given the breadth of the program, several participating agencies and public
enterprises were involved. In addition to overall program coordination, the Planning
Secretariat was responsible for specifically coordinating the water sector reform program
and implementing management contracts with the public enterprises. Other key agencies
for project implementation were the Finance Secretariat, which took the lead in public
finance and debt reforms, the Public Works Secretariat, which coordinated the
CRT/CEEE privatizations and roads concessions, and DEPRC, which implemented ports
concessions. The supervision of the different components was coordinated by a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Planning Secretariat. This unit was effective in
monitoring progress in the different reform areas, documenting the compliance with
performance benchmarks prior to release of each time-slice disbursement, and complying
with procurement and disbursement agreements. The one area where implementation was
weak was due in part to constraints outside of the control of the state, but also due to
weak state commitment to fiscal targets.
52.   Compliance with Covenants: Satisfactory. Compliance with legal covenants
was satisfactory. Over the life of the project, compliance with the stipulated covenants
and agreements was generally met. The project expenditures still need to be audited. The
bidding documents for the audit have already been finalized, and the Government is ready
to invite bids from five auditing firms. The Government expects to complete the audits
with regards to 1997 and 1998 expenditures by August 1999. The delay with respect to
the contractual date (June 30, 1999) is explained by the processing of a Government
request to limit the audit to expenditures invoked for Bank disbursement, given the
special nature of the loan (a fast- disbursing mechanism within an investment loan
format).
H.   Assessment of Outcome
53.   Overall Rating: Satisfactory. The RGS Reform Loan's objective was to support
the successful implementation of a series of reforms aimed at improving both the state's
medium-term fiscal situation and the efficiency in the provision of infrastructure and
utility services. The project objectives have been met satisfactorily in the area of
privatizations and concessions. The fiscal performance of the state, however, has not
improved as expected. The loan's specific achievements include: a) the privatization of
the telecommunication company; b) the privatization of two energy distribution company
and the transfer to the federal government of a thermal generation plant; c) the
concessioning of ports; d) the concessioning of nine road poles representing 20 percent of
the state's road network; and e) the establishment of a regulatory agency. The RGS
Reform Loan effectively provided technical and financial support to the state government
in the implementation of its reform program. The RGS Reform Loan successfully
capitalized on the window of opportunity that opened as the result of having reform-
minded administrations at both the state and federal levels.
54.   The experience with sub-national development projects in Argentina and other
countries had demonstrated the importance of sub-national governments for the overall



17
success of a country's reform program. From the Bank's standpoint, the RGS Reform
Loan was highly innovative, effectively adapting an investment loan format to respond to
the needs of reform lending. It was also one of the first operations in which severance
payments were considered eligible for financing. The RGS and other Brazilian state
loans illustrated the need to have adequate lending instruments to promote reform among
sub-national governments. In May 14, 1998'9, adjustment lending operations targeted
directly to sub-national governnents becarne possible under Bank policies.
1.    Future Operations
55.   Based on the experience from this project, there are several relevant lessons to be
learned for future operations:
a)    Re-evaluate the Fiscal Review approach. Having "soft" fiscal targets
makes it possible to deal with uncertain macroeconomic conditions and
the targets provide a basis for dialogue on the state's fiscal issues.
However, having soft targets may perhaps introduce too much room for
discretion into the assessment of conditionality compliance. More
importantly however, fiscal targets, whether strong or soft, should be
accompanied by a strong budget constraint in place, so that governmnents
are indeed encouraged to achieve the targets.
b)    Structural adjustment loans are more appropriate when lending for
reform: Although the RGS Reform Loan was highly innovative in its use
of traditional investment loans, the disbursement and procurement
procedures of these loans are too complex for the fast disbursement
objectives of reform loans.
c)    Provide more technical assistance on concession contracts and regulatory
frameworks: In particular, aim for the clear definition of the role of the
regulatory entity and definition of concession contracts.20
J.    Key Lessons Learned
56.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future public sector reforn projects
for sub-national governments beyond Brazil, can be learned from the implementation of
this State Reform Loan:
57.   Sub-national governments are key elements within the framework of a
country's overall reform program. The medium- and long-term sustainability of a
country's reform program depends on strong incentives encouraging state governments
to become fiscally responsible and efficient providers of services.
58.   Capitalizing on potential windows of opportunities. Having reform-minded
See Adjustment Lending to Subnational Units Final Text (SecM98-96)
20    For a detailed description, see the "Key Lessons of Experience" section in Annex D.



18
administrations at both the federal and state governments opens a significant window of
opportunity for reform. To capitalize on such opportunities, the Bank's technical
assistance and sector work are critical at early stages, during the design of the reform
programn.
59.   For the reforms to be sustainable, a consistent system of incentives has to be
in place at the national level. Pension fund and tax reforms, as well as the elimination
of sources of quasi-deficit financing, including federal bail-outs, are key prerequisites for
broader state reform, particularly fiscal adjustment.
60.   An adequate regulatory framework at the federal level is a pre-requisite for
the successful implementation of state-level privatization and concession programs.
In the case of Brazil, legislation conducive to increasing private sector participation in the
provision of most services at the state level had been passed the federal level, thus laying
the ground to the successful implementation of the privatizations and concessions
components. The only exception has been in the water and sanitation sector, where the
lack of definition in terms of granting authority and a weak regulatory framework
hampered the state's efforts to privatize the water company.
61.   Focus on those sub-national governments that are most willing and able to
implement major reforms. This will offset in part the risk of reforms being stalled in
one state.
62.   Operations should concentrate on a few, significant reforms that are hard to
reverse. Also, the state government should be able to implement the reforms during its
own mandate.
63.   Quick-disbursing loans supporting a well-defined set of reforms can be
effective tools in promoting structural adjustment at the sub-national level. Thus,
the newly-approved structural adjustment instrument, where the Bank can undertake fast
disbursement operations directly to sub-national governments, provides a useful tool.
The experience of Brazil's state reform project helped trigger the development of this
instrument.
64.   Reform  loans should support the state's own reform  program, thus
maximizing the state's ownership of the project. No lending operation per se can
provide per se incentives for reform. It can only support the implementation of reforms
for which there is a genuine interest on the part of the state. Strong state interest in
privatization and weak state interest in fiscal adjustment help explain the different
outcomes in the two areas.
65.   Despite the irreversibility of privatization reforms, the project raises the
question on whether greater consensus can be achieved with respect to these
reforms. While the privatizations are unlikely to be reversed, they remain controversial
within the state. Possibly a better job of documenting and ensuring the benefits from
privatization needs to be undertaken to ensure a wider support for the reforms, which



19
would in turn reinforce their success.
66.   As a condition for disbursement, the Bank should continue to require the
actual sale of public enterprises as opposed to their being "ready for sale." Although
this condition might be unpopular with Borrowers, it minimizes the likelihood of the
reform actions being reversed.
67.   Governments should be encouraged to ensure that the composition of the
regulatory agencies is politically balanced.   The general tendency to make
appointments that are partisan threatens the sustainability of privatizations and
concessions  over the  medium  run, particularly  under changing  government
administrations.
68.   Implementation confirms, as expected during project preparation, that
development of regulatory agencies is likely to be a slow process. The slow process of
regulatory delegation from other powers, politicization, and internal differences of
opinion on whether the agency should be independent of the executive, remain important
obstacles to a faster development of the agency.
69.   Severance payments are relatively small compared to the savings in payroll
expenses. Although the potential savings in termns of reduced salary and pension bills are
potentially very high, governments are usually cash-strapped and cannot afford to pay
more. As a consequence, take-up rates are low and a potential source for reducing the
long-term burden on state governments remains largely untapped.2" Upon approval of
administrative reforms in 1999, the possibilities of attaining these savings will have been
enhanced.
21    "Brazil: Fom stability to growth through public employment reform", Report No. 16793-BR, Feb.
1998.



20
Part II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives    Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not
Applicable
Macro Policies              _
Sector Policies                                                      /
Financial Objectives                                             _
Institutional Development                                            /
Physical Objectives              I
Poverty Reduction           _
Gender Issues                                                        /
Other Social Objectives                                              I
Environmental Objectives                                             /
Public Sector Management                                   .
Private Sector Development    _
Other                                                                /
B. Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability           Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                 Highly        Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                     I
Preparation Assistance             I
Appraisal                                          I
Supervision                                  _



21
D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance                      Highly                 Satisfactory                 Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                  I
Implementation
Covenant Compliance                                                    I
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of Outcome                Highly           Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory             Highly
Satisfactory                                                 Unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan            Purpose                     Amount   Year of
(US$ M) I Approval                Status
Preceding Operations
Loan 4189-BR           Mato Grosso State Privatization         45.0        1997      Closing Date: 06/30/00. 55%
disbursed as of 06/02/99.
Loan 4211-BR           Rio de Janeiro State Privatization     250.0        1997      Closed on 12/31/98. 80%
disbursed. Balance cancelled.
Loan 4211-BR           Minas Gerais State Privatization        170.0       1998      Loan not yet signed.



22
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle      Date Planned        Actual Date/or
Duration
Identification (Initial Executive                       3/27/96
Project Summary)
Preparation                                            12 months
Appraisal                                               07/15/96
Negotiations                                            12/16/96
Letter of Development Policy                            12/12/96
Board Presentation              February, 1997          03/04/97
Signing                                                 6/10/97
Effectiveness                                           6/30/97
First Time-Slice Release        Jan. - Jun. 1997        6/30/97
First Program Review           Jun. - Sept., 1997       11/20/97
Second Time-Slice Release       Jul. - Dec. 1997        2/17/98
Second Program Review         March - June 1998.        6/22/98
Third Time-Slice Release       March - Jun. 1998        12/9//98
Cancellation                       12/31/98             12/31/98
Loan Closing                       12/31/98             12/31/98



23
Table 4: Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY97            FY98            FY99
Appraisal estimate            50              105             125
Actual                        0              74.98           104.98
Actual as % of estimate      0%              71%              84%
Date of Final Disbursement: December 9, 1998
Date of Cancellation: US$20 million December 31, 1998



24
Table 5.a: Project Costs
Estimated Versus Actual
(US$ Million)
Appraisal estimate         Actual (US$M)
(US$M)
Categories                   Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs           Costs   Costs
Goods, Works, Consultant Services, and Training
*  Reform-related studies, training, and audits  14.0    18.0    32.0    8.0    12.0       18.0
*  Reform-related equipment and rehabilitation   7.0     3.0      10.0   n.a.    n.a.      n.a.
works
*  High Priority Investments in:
Land Management and Rural Poverty Alleviation    34.0    18.0    54.0   33.0    17.0   50.0
Highway Rehabilitation                       36.5    33.5    70.0   370.0   406.0    776.0
School and Hospital Rehabilitation           30.0    30.0    60.0   160.0   155.0    315.0
*  IDB Tax Project                               6.0    24.0    30.0    0.0       0.0       0.0
Severance Payments
*  "Rightsizing" of the work force              180.0    0.0    180.0  134.0    0.0        134.0
State Enterprises                            75.0    0.0      75.0   n.a.    n. a.     n. a.
Other State Entities                        105.0    0.0    105.0   n.a.    n.a.       n.a.
Grants                                           15.0    0.0      15.0  281.0    0.0      281.0
Incremental Recurrent Costs of Reforms on a     10.0     0.0      10.0   n.a.    n.a.      n.a.
Declining Basis
Total                                           332.5   126.5   461.0  1,086   488.0   1,574.0



25
Table 5.b: Project Financing
Estimated Versus Actual
(US$ Million)
Source                    Total     Total
IBRD                       125.0       105.0
IDB (Tax Project)          19.0         0.0
State of RGS              217.0      1,335.0
Caixa Economica Federal    100.0       134.0
Total                      461.0     1,574.0



26
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement         Section      Type of    Present                   Description of Covenant                         Comments
Covenant    Status
Guarantee           Article 11,       5           C      Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other  Complied with.
Agreement           Section                              obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby
2.01                                 unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the premium, if any on the prepayment of the Loan as
set forth in the Agreement
Loan Agreement      Article 11,       5           C      The closing date shall be 12/31/98 or such later date as  The project closed on December
Section                              the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify   31, 1998 as planned.
2.03                                 the Borrower and Guarantor of such later date.
Article 111,      5          C       The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives    Complied
Section                              of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 of this Agreement,
3.01                                 and shall carry out the Project in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, and environmental
practice and the provisions of the Project Manual, and
shall provide as promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
____________ _ __  services, and other resources required for the project.
Article III,      5          C       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of  Complied
Section                             the goods, works, and consultants' services required for
3.02(a)                             the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 4 of
this Agreement.
Article Ill,      I         NYD      The Borrower shall, not later than 30 days after the  Not yet due.
Section                              disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan in respect of
3.02(b)                              each of the Authorized Amounts, furnish to the Bank an
audit report, by an auditor acceptable to the Bank, on the
compliance by the Borrower in respect of procurement of
goods and works financed under each such Authorized
Amount. Each such report to be prepared in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Article 111,      9          C       The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on the   Complied with.
Section                              progress in carrying out the Program and the taking of
3.03 (a)                             actions specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, not
earlier than September 1, 1997, but not later than
December 31, 1997 (the First Program Review).
Article III,      5          C       The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on the   Complied with.
Section                              progress in carrying out the Program and the taking of
3.03 (b)                             actions specified in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, not
earlier than March 1, 1998, but not later than June 30,
1998 (the Second Program Review).
Article III,     10          C       he Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any    Complied with.
Section                              proposed action to be taken, after the disbursement of the
3.04                                 Loan, which may have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program, including any actions
specified in Schedules 6 and 7 of this Agreement
Article IV,       I                  Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
Section                              records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
4.01(a)                              accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources, and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the department, agencies, or enterprises of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project.
Article IV,       I         Soon    The Borrower shall have the records and accounts      Audit of 1997 accounts due
Section                              referred to in para. (a) of this Section and the records and   12/31/98.
4.01(b) (1)                          accounts for the Special account for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank



27
Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Agreement         Section     Type of    Present                 Description of Covenant                         Comments
Covenant    Status
Article IV,      I         Soon    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as   Audit of 1997 accounts due on
Section                             available, but in any case not later than six months after    12/31/98.
4.01(b) (ii)                       the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
requests
Article IV,      I          NC      The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such other  Audit to be delivered on
Section                            information concerning said records and accounts and the
4.01(b)(iii)                        audit thereof as the Bank from time to time shall
reasonably request.
Article IV,      10         C       The loan agreement has been duly registered by the  Complied.
Section                             Central Bank of Brazil.
6.01(a)
Article VI,      10         C       The project manual has been issued by the Borrower  Complied.
Section
6.01 (b)
Schedule 1,      3          C       Only withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding   Complied.
para. 3                             $62,500,000, may be made for payments made for
(a)(1)                              expenditures made twelve months before the date of this
agreement
Schedule 1,      3          C       No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for   Complied.
para. 3(a)                          expenditures unless such expenditures have been incurred
(ii)                                on account of a Selected Activity approved by the Bank.
Schedule 1,      3          C       No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments of   Complied.
para. 3(a)                          expenditures under subprojects for highway maintenance
(iii)                               and rehabilitation or for land management and rural
poverty alleviation in excess of $15,000,000 for each
subproject, if any subproject is part of a project being
financed by the Bank under another loan.
Schedule 1,      3          C       When the Authorized Amounts reach $50,000,000 in the   Complied
para. 3 (b)                         aggregate, the Bank will approve new Selected Activities
(I)                                 requiring Authorized Amounts of up to $25,000,000 in
the aggregate, only after the First Program Review shall
have taken place and the Bank shall be satisfied that
actions specified in Schedule 1 .6 to this Agreement
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 1,      3          C       The Bank will approve new selected Activities requiring   Complied
para.3 (b)                          Authorized Amounts of up to $30,000,000 in the
(ii)                                aggregate, only after the Second Program Review shall
have taken place and the Bank shall be satisfied that
actions specified in Schedule 7 have been taken
satisfactory to the Bank.
Schedule 1,      3          NC      Notwithstanding the provisions of (i) and (ii) above, the    Little prospect for this reform,
para. 3(b)                          Bank will approve new Selected Activities requiring  given the defeat of current
(iii)                               Authorized Amounts of up to $20,000,000 in the     governor. Corresponding
aggregate, whenever concessions and/or full management  amount of loan proceeds
service contracts have been awarded to investors which    cancelled.
are not part of the Brazilian federal, state, or municipal
public sector for the operation of water and sewerage
systems in areas of the Borrower's territory with a
population of at least 800,000 persons in the aggregate.
Such systems shall be operated in accordance with
environmental targets established on the basis of
environmental audits, acceptable to the Bank carried out
before the award of the corresponding concessions and/or
service management contracts for the operation of such
___________________   ____________   ____________  _____ system s.



28
Status of Legal Covenants (cont.)
Agreement         Section      Type of     Present                Description of Covenant                        Comments
Covenant    Status
Schedule 1,      9           C       If, after any Program Review, the Bank gives notice to    Bank did not give any such
para. 4                              the Borrower that any action specified in Schedule 6 or 7  notice.
to this Agreement has not been taken within 90 days, the
Bank may--with further notice to the Borrower and
Guarantor--cancel the amount of the Loan referred to in
para 3 (b) (i) or (ii) of this Schedule.
Schedule 6,      1I          C       The Borrower's policies regarding public expenditures,    Substantially complied with.
para. I                              tax administration improvements, public borrowings, and
use of privatization proceeds, as set forth in the Reform
Program Letter, have been substantially complied with.
Schedule 6,      10           C      Control of CRrs management has been transferred to  Complied.
para. 2                              the strategic investor who has acquired 35% of the
common shares of CRT's capital
Schedule 6,      10          C       Concessions have been awarded to firms, which are not   Complied.
para. 4                              part of the Brazilian federal, state, or municipal public
sector, for the operation of the container terminal and the
wheat-soy terminal in the Borrower's port of Rio Grande.
Schedule 6,      10          C       Concessions have been awarded to firms, which are not   Complied.
para. 4                              part of the Brazilian federal, state, or municipal public
sector, for the maintenance, operation, and improvement
of roads under at least three Road Poles.
Schedule 6,      10          C       The draft study on the Borrower's water and sanitation  Complied.
para. 5                              sector, with recommendations to restructure such sector,
increase the degree of private sector participation in such
sector, create a competitive environment for the service
providers and redefine such sector's social policy, and an
action plan to implement such recommendations, has
been completed.
Schedule 6,      12           C      A regulatory agency responsible for the supervision of    Complied.
para. 6                              the Borrower's public services subject to concession or
permission has been created and the members of its
board have been appointed.
Schedule 7,      11                  The Borrower's policies regarding public expenditures,    Complied
para. I                              tax administration, improvements, public borrowings and
use of privatization proceeds, as set forth in the Reform
Program Letter, have been substantially complied with.
Schedule 7,      10                  Concessions have been awarded to firms, which are not   No buyers were found for these
para. 2                              part of the Brazilian federal, state, or municipal public    facilities.
sector, for the operation of the refrigeration pier, the
liquid bulk terminal and the storage facility in the
Borrower's port of Rio Grande.
Schedule 7,      10                  The majority of the voting shares of CEEE's distribution   Complied
para. 4                              company North-East and CEEE's distribution company
Center-West has been transferred to investors which are
not part of the Brazilian federal, state or municipal
I public sector.
Schedule 7,      12           C      The agency referred to in para. 6 of Schedule 6 to this  Complied with in substance.
pars. 5                              Agreement is fully operational.
Covenant Types:                                                                                              Present Status:
I = Accounts/Audits                            7 = Involuntary resettlement                                  C = covenant complied
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from  8 = Indigenous people                                       CD = complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds      9 = Monitoring, review and reporting                          CP  complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                         10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9    NC = Not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing    II = Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation.
agency                                          12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants                     13 = Other



29
Table 7: Bank Resources: StaffInputs"
Stage of                          Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks            US$
Through appraisal                77.8            312.1
Appraisal-Board                 30.1            149.2
Board-effectiveness              11.4             35.5
Supervision                   43.2            189.5
Completion                    7.5             40.9
TOTAL                      170.0           727.2
Includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.



30
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of Project        Month/        Number                 Specialized
cyle of Project    year            of      Days in      staff skills           Performance rating
cycle                             persons    field     represented 1/
Implementation     Development          Types of
Status          objectives          problems
Through appraisal    September 1995        9          15      A,B,C,G,J,K,L
November 1995         6         10       A,F,G,H,I,M
December 1995         3         4           G,H,I
January 1996         10         5       B,C,D,G,H,I,J,L
February 1996         4         5          G,N,O,Q
May 1996              8         12      C,D,G,H,J,P,R
July 1996             2         3            G,Q
Board approval
through effectiveness
Supervision          July 1997             5          4        A,B,C,D,E                                            ompl ing with
fiscal and
investment targets.
Risk that state will
not comply with
target for personnel.
September 1997        3         4           A,C,F               S                 S          Project on track.
Ahead of 2fd time-
slice disbursements
implementation
conditionality.
November 1997         3         2           A,C,E                                            Project on track for
first review and 2
time-slice
disbursement.
February 1998        3          1           A,B,C               S                 S          Number of
obstacles to reform
water sector and
privatize water
company.
June 1998            2          2            A,B                S                 S          Last time-slice
June 1998  2  2  A,B                          disbursement
(US$20M) depends
on partial
privatization of the
state water and
_                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sanitation company.
Completion           March 1999            4          5         A,F,H,K
1/Key to specialization:
A. Task Manager                                         J Power
B. Public Finance                                       K Roads
C. Water                                                L Education
D. Disbursement/Auditing                                M  Budget Reform
E Regulation                                            N Health
F Financial Sector                                      0 Pensions
G Sr. Economist                                         P Administrative Reform
H Telecommunications                                    Q Division Chief
I Port                                                  R. Private Sector Development



31
Table 9: Policy Matrix
Activity                   By Board Presentation               First Project Review             Second Project Review
(February, 1997)                 (June - Sept., 1997)              (March - June, 1998)
Public Expenditure Review (PER)
Review that the State has not     Agreed on focus of Public         Positive PER:                      Positive PER:
undertaken unproductive investments  Expenditure Review (PER), included  i) investment expenditures must  i) investment expenditures must
and that financing of investment  in Reform Program Letter:         generally be economically or socially  generally be economically or socially
expenditure is consistent with the  i) investment expenditures, their  productive;                     productive;
reform program.                   financing and their economic or   ii) overall levels of debt to revenue    ii) overall levels of debt to revenue
social justification,;            must decline in accordance with debt  must decline in accordance with debt
ii) the debt stock / revenue ratio;  agreement;                     agreement;
iii) the personnel cost / revenue ratio;  iii) investment levels and investment   iii) investment levels and investment
iv) policies to increase tax collection.  financing must be consistent with  financing must be consistent with
debt/revenues targets;            debt/revenues targets;
iv) planned personnel costs reductions  iv) planned personnel costs reductions
must be implemented.              must be implemented.
Privatizations and Concessions
a) State Telecommunications       Sold 35 percent of CRT's voting   Satisfactory transfer of key CRT
Company                           shares to private strategic investors.    management functions to private,
Companhia Riograndense dos                                          strategic investor.
Telecomunicacoes (CRT)
b) Ports: Concession of facilities in   Porto Alegre container pier has been   Award of concessions of container  Award concessions of refrigeration
the Port of Rio Grande that will raise   awarded.                   terminal and wheat-soy terminal in    pier, liquid bulk terminal and storage
the share of private operators from 50  Bids for Rio Grande container  Rio Grande.                     facility of Rio Grande.
percent to 80 percent.            terminal have been received and
winner has been determined.
Bidding documents for wheat-soy
terminal have been issued.



32
Policy Matrix (cont.)
Activity                   By Board Presentation               First Project Review             Second Project Review
l        (February, 1997)         |        (June - Sept., 1997)             (March - June, 1998)
Privatizations and Concessions (cont.)
c) Roads: Concession of about 20  Bidder list for first road pole   Award concessions of at least three    Award concessions of at least four
percent of the paved road network in  (Gramado) has been approved.  poles.                            additional road poles.
nine poles.                       Bidder lists for other road poles
submitted.              _____
d) CEEE: Sale of majority voting  Law on splitting and privatizing                                     Sell distribution companies North and
shares of power distribution      CEEE has been approved.                                              West.
companies covering about 2/3 of the
distribution market.
e) Water and Sanitation Sector    Privatization options determined.  Complete final draft of consultant's
Study                                                               report on design and implementation
of water sector privatization options.
f) Regulation of Infrastructure   Law approved for establishment of    Create regulatory entity and appoint   Regulatory entity fully operational.
Services                          cross-sectoral regulatory entity.  members of Board.
By Board Presentation                           Disbursement (Floating Date)
g) Water Concessions              Privatization options determined:  Award concessions or full service management contracts of water and
(i) direct municipal concessions;  sewerage covering municipalities with an aggregate urban population of at
ii) full service management contracts;  least 800,000 to private operators.
iii) privatization of CORSAN.



33
Table 10: Evolution of State Fiscal Accounts 1995-98
(in real terms, Rs$ million)
Sources and Uses                           1995       1996       1997       1998
Current Revenues                           4,641      4,791     4,766      5,290
Net Tax Revenues                        3,240      3,305      3,111      3,099
Transfers from Federal Government         902        921      1,018      1,369
Other Current Revenues                    500        565        637        822
Current Expenditures                       7,026      6,914     6,962      6,152
Personnel                               3,843      4,146      4,071      4,282
Active Personnel                      2,197      2,509      2,366      2,412
Retirees and Dependents               1,596      1,523      1,571      1,778
Other                                    50        114       134         92
Interest on Debt                        2,574      1,945      2,164        984
Other Current Expenditures                609        823        727        886
Capital Expenditure                         628        636       1,058     4,077
Investment                                471        500        934      1,347
Debt Amortization                         157        136        123        392
Other                                                                    2,338 (2)
Borrowing Requirement                     -3,013     -2,759     -3,254     -4,939
Capital Receipts                           2,391     2,794      3,702      5,313
Net Borrowing                              55        388        296      2,551
Net Privatization                           0        700      1,502      1,850
Capitalized Interest                    2,310      1,657      1,849        812
Other Capital Receipts                     26         50         55        100
Surplus / Deficit                          -622         36        448        375
Indicators                                 1995       1996       1997       1998
Growth of Current Revenues                  n.a.      3.2%      -0.5%      11.0%
Personnel as % Revenue                    82.8%      86.5%      85.4%      80.9%
Capital Spending as % of Revenues         13.5%      13.3%      22.2%      32.9% (3)
Current Account Surplus as % of Revenues    -51.4%  -44.3%     -46.1%     -16.3%
Primary Surplus as % of Revenues          -6.1%     -14.1%     -20.3%     -23.2%
Total Debt Service as % of Revenues       58.8%      43.4%      48.0%      26.0%
Stock of Debt as % of Revenues           187.8%     204.4%     239.4%    228.4% (4)
Overall Surplus / Deficit as % of Revenues    -61.5%  -54.7%   -65.7%     -41.8%
Stock of Debt                              1995       1996       1997       1998
Negotiable Debt                            6,402      7,220     8,436         33
Bonds (1)                               6,402      7,220      8,436         33
Contractual Debt                           2,316      2,571     2,972     13,383
- Intralimite                             0          0         0      10,759
a. Renegotiation                          0          0         0       7,186
b. PROES                                  0          0         0      2,380
c. Other                                  0          0          0      1,192
- Extralimite                             0          0          0      2,624
Total Debt                                 8,718      9,791     11,408    13,416
(1) This is also considered "extralimite" debt.
(2) The Rs$2,380 million correspond to PROES, which funded capital expenditures on
Banrisul, the state bank.
(3) It excludes Rs$2,380 million from PROES.
(4) It excludes Rs$1,335 million from PROES corresponding to portfolio of Caixa Stadual.



34
Table 11: Expenditure Reviews
Targets and Actual Performance
Indicators                              Target        12/31/97             12/31/98
Growth in Net Current Revenues            4%            -1%                  11%
Personnel as % of Net Current Revenues   75%            85%                  81%
Debt/Revenue Ratio (1)                    1:1           2.39                 2.28     (2)
Amount of Investment Financed from Debt   225            56                  101
Investment Spending
Highways                                        Rs$281 million      Rs$550 million
Education                                       Rs$53 million        Rs$74 million
Health and Sanitation                           Rs$1 11 million     Rs$1 18 million
Municipal Investments                           Rs$46 million        Rs$23 million
Others                                           Loan to GM      Loan to Ford and GM
(Rs$253.2 million)   (Rs$ 306.7 million)
(I) The target is to be achieved by the year 2008.
(2) Excluding Rs$1,335 million from PROES, corresponding to the portfolio of Caixa Stadual.
Otherwise, the debt / revenue ratio increases to 2.58.



35
Table 12: Proceeds from Privatizations
Sector                Company                       Date          Proceeds
(Rs$ million)
Telecommunications    CRT Ist Tranche (3 5%)         12/96                 681
CRT 2nd Tranche (50.12%)      6/98                 1,176
Electricity           RGE                            10/97                  895
AES-Sul                       10/97                1,635
CGTEE                         12/98                 508*
Total                                                                     4,895
* Reduction in state debt via 'Federalization' of company



36
Table 13: Road Concessions
Concession Pole        Awarded        Min. Km.          Con. Proposal       Concession    Concessionaire
Maint. Edital    Km. Maintained    In Operation    Investment (1)
Pelotas                   Yes                 539.00               551.50       No                279,790.00
Metropolitano             Yes                 510.00               536.00       Yes               377,425.00
Caxias Do Sol             Yes                  165.85              173.75       Yes               322,846.00
Vacaria                   Yes                 121.16               132.66       Yes               140,922.00
Grarnado                  Yes                 110.37               131.97       Yes                71,601.00
Carazhinho                Yes                 209.38               250.40       Yes               253,455.00
Santa Maria               Yes                 249.21               256.21       Yes               209,973.00
Santa Cruz do Sul         Yes                 154.49               196.82       Yes               204,771.00
Lajeado                   Yes                 282.31               318.80       Yes               340,142.00
Total All Concessions                        2,341.77            2,548.11                       2,200,925.00
Total Operating Concessions                  1,553.56            1,740.40                       1,711,162.00
Total Paved Km. In Network                   8,600.00
% Total Paved Awarded to Concessionaires                          29.63%
% Total Paved in Operating Concessions                            20.24%
(1) Includes 455,639.00 concessionaire tax payment
* Source: DAER "Programa Estadual de Concessao Rodoviaria, Resumo Informativo



37                              Annex A:
Public Expenditure Reviews
Annex A: Public Expenditure Reviews
1.    One of the objectives of the reforms supported by the RGS Reform Loan was to
improve the state's fiscal position to ultimately contribute to improve the country's
overall fiscal performance. Specifically, the RGS government's intentions, as stated in its
Reform Program Letter to the Bank, were to reduce spending in personnel, increase tax
collection, develop a sound investment program, and reduce the stock of debt. These
objectives have been only partially achieved, as there have not been significant
improvements in terms of personnel expenditures and the reduction of the stock of debt.
2.    Specifically, the Reform Letter presented by the State describing its reform
program specified five fiscal targets: i) growth in net current revenues; ii) personnel
expenditures as a percentage of net current revenues; iii) stock of debt/revenue ratio; iv)
productivity of investment; and v) levels of investment spending. Compliance with these
targets has been partial (see Table 1).
3.    In 1997, the state did not meet three of these targets: growth in revenues,
reductions in personnel expenditures, and declines in debt/revenues ratio. By 1998, the
targets with regard to reductions in personnel expenditures and declines in the
debt/revenue ratio had not yet been met. However, the growth in net current revenues
surpassed the corresponding target by 7 percent, mainly due to a growth in transfers and a
rebound in ICMS during the second semester. As a result of a comprehensive debt
agreement with the National Government, the stock of bonds was reduced significantly,
although the total stock of debt has increased with respect to 1996, despite the proceeds
from the privatizations and a Rs$1.645 billion debt forgiveness by the federal
government. The increase in debt has been mainly the result of three factors: a) excessive
primary deficits (i.e., 20.3 percent and 23.2 percent of net current revenues in 1997 and
1998 respectively);  b) an increase in borrowing from  PROES to assist in the
restructuring of the state financial institutions; and c) the due-interest burden on the high
levels of accumulated debt. Moreover, debt service caps will cause the debt to continue to
grow, at least in the near term.
4.    Personnel expenditures as a proportion of net current revenues have decreased
from 85.4 percent in 1998 to 81 percent in 1998, but mainly as a result of an increase in
revenues due to transfers. The remaining two targets -- amount of investment financed by
debt and the type of investment spending -- were both met in 1997 and 1998. Capital
spending in 1998 was substantial and generally consistent with both the ceiling on debt
financed capital investment and the guidelines for the sectoral allocation of investment.
One exception to this were two loans to GM and Ford, and their "sistemistas" that, as
opportunely pointed out by the Bank, are questionable in terms of their economic and
social justification.
5.    Despite the failure to meet targets, the state was considered to be in compliance



38                                    Annex A:
Public Expenditure Reviews
because federal conditions for meeting the targets did not come into place (finalization of
the debt agreements and passage of administrative reforms). Moreover, the initial lack of
improvement of state revenues was attributed also to an external factor, namely approval
of a law granting exemption of the ICMS, the main source of revenues for the states, to
exports.
Table 1
Summary of Reform Letter Targets
Indicators                                   Target        12/31/97          12/31/98
Growth in Net Current Revenues                 4%            -1%               11%
Personnel as % of Net Current Revenues        75%            85%               81%
Debt/ Revenue Ratio (1)                        1:1  (2)      2.39              2.28
Amount of Investment                           (3)            934              1,347
Investment Spending
Highways                                              Rs$281 million   Rs$550 million
Education                                             Rs$53 million     RsS74 million
Health and Sanitation                                Rs$l 11 million   Rs$118 million
Municipal Investments                                 Rs$46 million     Rs$23 million
Others                                                 Loan to GM    Loan to Ford and GM
(Rs$253.2 million)   (Rs$ 306.7 million)
(I) It does not include Rs$ 1.335 billion for the Caixa Estadual portfolio.
(2) The target is to be achieved by the year 2008
(3) The target is that investment levels and investment financing should be consistent with debt/revenue targets.
6.     Revenues. The Reform Program Letter sets the target for growth in net revenues
in 1997 and 1998 at 4 percent in real terms. This was achieved in 1998, but not in 1987.
Based on the final accounts (December 31, 1998), net current revenues have increased
significantly during the second half of 1998. This is largely due: (a) a 2.7 percent increase
in ICMS revenues as a result of some actions aimed to improve tax administration, (b) an
34.4 percent increase in federal transfers; and (c) a 30.4 percent increase in other revenue.
7.     As noted in the First Review, the decline in ICMS revenues during 1997 does not
reflect an overall decline in the tax base. According to figures released by the state's
Planning Department in early January 1998, the state's GDP grew 5.7 percent during
1997. Growth was particularly strong in sectors which have historically contributed the
majority  of ICMS  revenues.    The  industrial  sector  (including  manufacturing,
construction, and public utilities), for example, accounted for 58 percent of ICMS tax
receipts in 1996 and grew 11 percent in 1997.
8.     Instead, the decline in 1997 appears to have been due to two factors: federally
imposed exemptions and worsening tax administration. The relative importance of these
factors was difficult to disentangle. It is clear that federally imposed tax exemptions had
an adverse effect revenues during 1997. The Lei Kandir (L.C. 87/96) went into effect in
September of 1996. It granted two exemptions to the ICMS. The first one exempted
exports from the ICMS. The second one allowed a 100 percent tax credit for ICMS paid



39                                     Annex A:
Public Expenditure Reviews
on the purchase of capital equipment. The state argued that most of the growth in the
economy occurred in activities that were exempt from the Lei Kandir. According to its
analysis, the exemption on exports alone cost the state Rs$236 million in 1997. Without
this loss, revenues would have remained constant in real terms. 23
Table 2
Growth in Current Revenues 1996-98
Nominal (Rs$ Million)           Real (Rs$ Million)
Current Revenues                1996      1997     1998       1996     1997      1998
Tax Revenue                  4,195    4,237    4,516       4,629    4,389    4,516
ICMS                       3,879    3,857    4,102      4,280    3,995     4,102
Transfers                      835      983     1,369        921     1,018    1,369
FPE                         206      230       257        227      238       257
IRF                         226      250       305        249      259       305
IPI - Exports               271      274       295        299      284       295
Lei Kandir                    0       69       297          0       71       297
Other Transfers             132       160      216        146      166       216
Other Revenues                 512      614       822       565       636      822
Total Gross Current Revenues    5,542    5,834    6,707       6,115    6,043    6,707
Transfers to Municipalities     1,200    1,234     1,417      1,324    1,278     1,417
Net Current Revenues            4,342    4,601     5,290      4,791    4,765    5,290
Consumer Price Index (July)    132.674   141.330   146.398
Adjustment Coef. (1998)          1.103    1.036     1.000
9.     The Second Expenditure Review  was based on results through May.  At that
point, ICMS revenues appeared to have slowed their decline. Reported ICMS revenues
in the first five months of 1998 were only 2.4 percent less than in the corresponding
period of 1997. After adjusting for some anomalies in the data, revenues appeared to
have actually increased by 3 percent.24 This reversal was in part due to the bottoming out
of the impact of the Lei Kandir. As the impact of the Lei Kandir was already reflected in
1997 revenues, its marginal impact on 1998 revenues was minimal.
10.    Non-tax revenues increased sharply in the first five months of 1998. This was
largely due to growth in transfers--particularly Lei Kandir compensation payments. Due
to anomalies in the fortnula for Lei Kandir compensation, the state received only Rs$60
million in compensation in 1997--all of it in the last half of the year. In the first five
months of 1998, the state received Rs$94 million and expected to continue to receive this
23     Under Lei Kandir, if real ICMS revenues in any twelve month period are not at least five percent
above their levels during the period July 1995-June 1996, the Federal Government is required to
compensate the state for the difference. Because receipts are calculated on the basis of twelve month
periods, the compensation calculation during the first months of 1997 failed to reflect the impact of the Lei
Kandil. Once the calculation was based on a full 12 months of post Kandir revenues, the amount of
compensation increased.
24     In December 1996, the state obtained an advance payment of Rs$63 million in ICMS revenues
due in 1997. As a result, 1996 revenues are overstated by Rs$63 million, and 1997 revenues understated by
the same amount. A similar transaction in December 1995 understated 1996 ICMS revenues by R$32
million.



40                                     Annex A:
Public Expenditure Reviews
rate of compensation throughout the year.  Due to the overall decline in reported tax
revenues, constitutionally  mandated transfers to municipalities fell.   Thus, current
revenues net of transfers to municipalities--the indicator to measure revenue
performance--increased by 6.7 percent in the first five months of 1998, compared to the
corresponding period in 1997. Larger than the target of 4 percent, this condition was
considered to be fully met.
11.    Personnel Costs.  The Reform  Program  Letter states that expenditures on
personnel were to drop to 75 percent of net current revenue in 1997 (from a peak of 87
percent in 1996). Performance in 1997 did not meet this target. Expenditures on
personnel ("despesas realizadas") in 1997, including active employees in direct and
indirect administration and retired employees, totaled 86 percent of net current revenues.
In the first five months of 1998, personnel costs increased 3.5 percent over the
corresponding period in 1997 in real terms. As net current revenues grew by 6.7 percent,
the proportion of personnel costs to revenue, shrank to 83 percent. The indicator
eventually dropped to 81 percent by the end of 1998.
Table 3
Evolution of Personnel Expenditures 1996-98
Nominal (Rs$ Million)          Real (Rs$ Million)
Personnel Expenditures            1996     1997     1998        1996     1997     1998
Active                        2,274    2,284    2,412       2,509    2,366    2,412
Retired and Dependents        1,380    1,517    1,778       1,523    1,571     1,778
Other                           103      129       92         114      134       92
Total                            3,757    3,930    4,282       4,146    4,071    4,282
Personnel as % Net Current Revenues
Net Current Revenues          4,342    4,601    5,290
Ratio                          87%      85%      81%
Consumer Price Index (July)     132.674   141.330   146.398
Adjustment Coef. (1998)           1.103    1.036     1.000
Table 4
Changes in the Number of Employees, 1996-98
1996     1997     1998
Number of Personnel ("000, as of Dec. 31)
Active                        173.7    168.1    166.1
Retired and Dependents        100.2    105.5    110.6
Total                            273.9    273.6    276.7
12.    The growth in personnel costs is only due to factors outside the state's control,
since the largest component of growth is in payments to retired staff (see Table 3), while
declines in payments to active staff are limited by constitutional provisions guaranteeing
civil service tenure and prohibiting declines in salaries. This in turn reflects growth in the



41                                     Annex A:
Public Expenditure Reviews
number of retirees, as shown in Table 4. Payments to active workers actually declined
between 1996 and 1997, again in the first five months of 1998, and increased only
slightly by the end of 1998. This reflects a decline in the number of active staff (from
173,000 in January, 1997 to 166,000 in December, 1998) as well as fairly modest
"increases in nominal salaries." (In August 1997, the state awarded an 8.7 percent
increase to teachers. Further raises of 2.2 percent were awarded in May and June of
1998. Lower-ranking staff of the civil and military police were granted a 23-34 percent
nominal increase in August 1997, to be phased in over 17 months.)
13.    Reductions in debt stock. / revenue ratio. The Reform  Program  Letter states
that the state's debt/revenue ratio should fall to 1: 1 by the year 2008. This was the target
established in the debt protocol signed with the federal governmnent on September 20,
1996, based on the outstanding debt stock at the time and the terms of debt relief
established in the debt relief protocol.
14.    During 1997, the state's debt stock increased by Rs$2.14 billion in nominal terms.
This was attributable to several developments. The most important was the capitalization
of interest on bonds. Until November 1998, the state did not have an effective debt
refinancing agreement with the federal government. Interest on the bonds therefore
continued to be based on the SELIC rate. As the Senate permitted the state to roll over 98
percent of the value of the bonds (including capitalized interest) the stock of bonds grew
rapidly.  Second, the state borrowed Rs$158 million from  CEF to refinance AROs.
(Although this is merely a restructuring of debt, it affects the indicator since AROs are
not included in the indicator and debt to CEF is.) The third cause was external borrowing
(from BIRD and IDB), totaling Rs$107 million.
Table 5
Evolution of the Stock of Debt
Nominal (Rs$ Million)           Real (Rs$ Million)
Type of Debt                         1996      1997    1998         1996      1997    1998
Bonds                               6,543     8,144      33        7,152     8,283      33
Res. 162                              357      619        0          390      630        0
Net Negotiable Debt                  6,900     8,763      33        7,543     8,912      33
Refinancing (Bonds & Res. 162)                         7,186                           7,186
PROES (1)                                               1,045                          1,045
PROES Contrapartida                                      681                            681
Eectrobras (Conta Grafica)                               694                            694
Other Debt                           1,973     2,250    2,442       2,157     2,288    2,442
Total                                8,873    11,013   12,081       9,699    11,201   12,081
Debt I Revenue Ratio
Net Current Revenues                4,342     4,601    5,290
Ratio                                2.04      2.39     2.28
Consumer Price Index (December)    134.689   144.765  147.231
Adjustment Coef. (1998)           1.093118  1.017035       1
(1) It does not include Rs$1.335 billion corresponding to the Caixa Estadual portfolio.



42                                Annex A:
Public Expenditure Reviews
15.   The debt picture changed substantially in 1998. On March 30, 1998, the federal
government agreed to lend the state up to Rs$1,987 million to finance the merger and
restructuring of its two banks. Of this amount, Rs$ 1,034 million was actually contracted.
Another Rs$563 million in counterpart funding was borrowed from the state bank
(Banrisul) pension fund and BNDES. On April 15, a comprehensive debt agreement was
signed, incorporating significant reductions in the stock of bonds and Resolution 162
debt. Out of a total of Rs$9,427 million in outstanding bonds and Resolution 162 debt,
the Federal government forgave Rs$1,645 billion outright and agreed to accept another
Rs$650 million in assets to reduce the remainder, leaving a debt of Rs$7,132 million.
The net effect of these transactions was to reduce the total stock of debt by Rs$1,168
million.
16.   The remaining debt was refinanced for 30 years at 6 percent interest (in real
terms). Debt service is subject to a ceiling of 13 percent of net current revenues. (The
debt service ceiling is reduced to 12 percent in 1998 and 12.5 percent in 1999.) Debt
service in excess of that level will be automatically capitalized into the stock of debt, to
be paid when debt service falls below the 13 percent threshold. Rough estimates
suggested that the amount of debt service subject to the ceiling will equal about 24
percent of net current revenue in 1998. As a result, nearly half of debt service obligations
were capitalized into the stock of debt. The stock of debt can therefore be expected to
grow until revenues rise considerably. In fact, the total stock of debt reached to
Rs$12,081 million By the end of 1998.
17.   There has been very little new borrowing in 1998, outside of the debt refinancing
agreement discussed above.  The only additions to the debt stock arose from
disbursements of loans from the IDB (Pro-Guiaba) and IBRD (State Reform Loan and
Pro-rural.)
18.   Because the debt refinancing agreement was not made effective until November
1998, it was difficult to determine how wide off the mark the state's debt was.
Background documents to the comprehensive debt agreement estimate that the debt:
revenue ratio will fall to 1: 1 by 2012, but this assumes full implementation of a state
adjustment program. In the near term, it seems likely that the debt/revenue ratio will rise,
due to the capitalization of debt service permitted by the 13 percent debt service ceiling.
Thus far, however, the state has met its debt service obligations under the debt agreement
finalized last November25. The state, nevertheless, is challenging the validity of the
agreement.
19.   Level of Investment. The Reform Program Letter fixes a target for investment at
Rs$771 million for 1997 and Rs$767 million for 1998. The intent of this target is to
monitor whether investment levels and financing are "consistent with the achievement of
25    Nevertheless, the state and the Federal Government need to resolve the payment of the "conta
gr6fica", a down payment by the state to the Federal Govemment, financed by Electrobras, to be
reimbursed by the state upon privatization of CGTEE. This privatization however, did not materialize.



43                              Annex A:
Public Expenditure Reviews
overall debt/revenue targets." However, since the debt agreement was not finalized until
November 1998, the state was not subject to debt targets during the life of the project.
20.   Total capital spending in 1997 totaled Rs$1.485 billion in nominal termns. Very
little of this was financed from borrowing. Project borrowing (consisting largely of the
IDB-financed Pro-Guiaba loan) totaled Rs$56 million in 1997. The state continued to
maintain a low level of debt-financed investment which amounted to only Rs$101
million. As noted above, borrowing for capital works has been confined to IDB/IBRD-
financed projects. The total level of capital investment was Rs$ 1.347 billion in 1998.
21.   Productivity of investment. The final condition established in the Reform
Program Letter refers to the nature and quality of  the state investment program. The
Letter states that investment spending will be based on the identification of the principal
economic and social needs of the state, and that investments will concentrate on the
expansion and maintenance of the highway network, investments in health, education,
and public security, and investments to support growth in the agricultural and industrial
sectors. The intent of this condition is to ensure that state funds, particularly receipts from
privatization, are well spent.
22.   As shown in Table 1, capital spending in 1997 and 1998 was generally consistent
with the guidelines for the sectoral allocation of investment. One exception to this were
two loans to GM and Ford, and their "sistemistas" that, as opportunely pointed out by the
Bank, are questionable in terms of their economic and social justification.



44                                Annex B:
Privatization Program
Annex B: The Privatization and Regulation of State-Owned Utilities in Rio
Grande do Sul
A.    Introduction
1.    The most important part of the state of RGS government's reform program has
been the privatization of state-owned companies. In the area of public services, two major
privatizations were undertaken-the state-owned telecommunications company, CRT,
and two electricity distribution companies, representing approximately two-thirds of the
territory of the state. A further component of the electricity company, its thermal
generation assets, representing 490 MW of capacity, were transferred to the Federal
government as part of a debt refinancing agreement. The failed privatization of CORSAN
was the least successful part of the program. An additional component of these reforms
was the establishment of a cross-sectoral regulatory agency, known as AGERGS, which
was to be responsible for regulating the public services in the State. It has been slow to
receive delegated powers (it only recently received an agreement to regulate certain
aspects of electricity supply in the state from the Federal regulatory authority, ANEEL)
and is now embroiled in a political dispute about whether certain commissioners should
be removed prior to the end of their appointments.
Table 1: Privatization Proceeds
Sector             Company                     Date     Proceeds
(Rs$Million)
Telecommunications   CRT Ist Tranche (35%)     12/96         681
CRT 2nd Tranche (50.12%)    6/98        1,176
Electricity        RGE                         10/97         895
AES-Sul                    10/97        1,635
CGTEE                      12/98        508*
Total                                                      4,895
* Reduction in state debt via 'Federalization' of company
2.    Public dissatisfaction with public services led the state to undertake periodic
surveys of the population to determine which were the worst offenders and what the key
complaints of customers were. Two surveys have thus far been undertaken, the first in
1996, the second in 1998. Postal questionnaires were sent out to around 20,000 people in
1996 and 30,000 people in 1998 in around 95percent of the municipalities in the state in
both surveys.
3.    Notably and somewhat disturbingly, public opinion as reflected in the surveys,
seemed to show that the population is not yet persuaded of the benefits of privatization
and in fact the overall level of satisfaction has fallen slightly for the privatized utilities (as
well as for other public services). It is important to note, however, that the questionnaire



45                                 Annex B:
Privatization Program
did not specify the reason for dissatisfaction, thus, it might also reflect the increase in
tariffs. The service, however, that gives the public the most cause for complaint, however,
is sewerage where the public registers significantly higher discontent than for the other
utility services, although other public services such as health and public security show
even higher levels of discontent.
Table 2: Survey of Public Services in Rio Grande do Sul: Main Results
Public Service          Very Satisfied or      Regular (%)        Very Unsatisfied or
Satisfied (%)                             Unsatisfied (%)
96        98         96         98         96        98
Water                69         66         20        24         11         10
Sewerage             40         39         27        25         33         36
Telephones           51         48         30        32         19         20
Electricity          69         60         25         30        6          10
Public Security      21         20         35         41        44         39
Public Health        15         15         28        38         57         47
4.     Quality of service statistics, particularly with regard to the increased level of
access to telecommunications, are either remaining static or improving somewhat for the
privatized services, however. In electricity, the picture with regard to the quality of
service has been more mixed because of a series of nationwide blackouts in recent
months.
5.    The result has therefore been a very successful privatization program in terms of
raising revenue for the state, with little impact thus far on customer satisfaction.
Privatization, however, has allowed a dramatic increase in the availability of fixed and
cellular telephone service and probably contributed to improvements in operational
efficiency.
B.    Telecommunications
6.    Unlike the other states, where telephone service was until recently provided by
Federally-owned subsidiaries of the Telebras system, the state government of RGS owned
85.4 percent of its local telephone company, the Companhia Riograndense das
Telecomunicacoes (CRT). The main objective of its privatization was to meet the
considerable unmet demand (estimated in January 1997, in the MOP) to be around
700,000 fixed lines and 300,000 cellular connections, and to provide revenues for the
state.
7.    Privatization: The privatization of CRT was undertaken in two tranches, 35
percent being sold in December 1996 to a consortium headed by Telef6nica de Espana,
the stake included management rights including the right to appoint the directors. The
group paid Rs$68 1 million for the stake. The remainder of the government's shares were



46                               Annex B:
Privatization Program
later sold to the same consortium in June 1998 for Rs$1.176 billion. This later sale was
not envisaged in the government's original privatization program.
8.    The result has been a considerable increase in the number of cellular and fixed
connections and public phones, the rates of increase having been 261 percent, 67 percent,
and 125 percent respectively. Quality of service does not seem to have suffered unduly,
unlike the systems in Sao Paolo and Rio de Janeiro where quality of service declined
notably as a result of the increase in the number of new connections.
9.    Operational Results: The improvements in the operating results of the company
have been significant in the last few years as shown by the table of financial indicators
below.
Table 3: Financial Indicators for CRT
95      96       97
Return on assets (%)                            0.3      -0.7     3.8
Earnings before interest, depreciation and taxes (Rs$ Million)  178  399  520
10.   One of the major reasons for this increase in the financial results is the increase in
the productivity of the enterprise: particularly in terms of the reduction in the number of
employees. Productivity has increased significantly particularly as measured by the
number of employees per 1000 connections which fell by 25 percent from 4.0 in 1996 to
3.0 in 1997, which was mainly due to the increase in the number of connections, although
the number of employees did decrease as a result of the voluntary departure program
undertaken by the Government in 1996.
11.   The company is planning a considerable amount of front-loaded investments, a
significant portion of which were undertaken in 1998 as can be seen from the table below,
but diminishing over the next couple of years as the backlog of investments, particularly
in new lines and cellular phones is eased.
Table 4: Planned Investments (Rs$ m)
98       99      2000
Basic Telephony                         641     395.2    270.3
Cellular Telephony                      105        77      45.1
Public Telephones                      27.5      15.4      14.4
Commercial Communications                13        14        14
Operations                              31.3       30       30
Systems                                 77.8       40       37
Other                                   20.7       15        15
Total                                  923.5    586.6    425.8
12.   Quality of Service: The quality of service has improved marginally in terms of
responses to customers as shown below. Informal complaints have, however, been made



47                                  Annex B:
Privatization Programn
about the policy of significant contracting out which the critics have argued has led to
less experienced technical staff being used to conduct repairs. The actual quality of
service statistics, however, bear out the fact that quality of service seems to have
improved on balance, particularly with regard to the statistic of timely repairs and direct
long distance calling (which customer satisfaction surveys do not yet capture).
Table 5: CRT Quality of Service
95       96        97        98
Repairs undertaken in less than 24 hours (%)  88.08     88.36    80.61      91.7
Responses to requests for service within a      94     93.31     90.79     93.26
month of the request (%)
Rate of calls completed via DDD (%)          49.75     49.27     51.48     57.25
13.   Access: The rate of increase in access has been substantial as shown in the table
below. The number of cellular phones in service more than doubled in one year, while the
number of fixed lines in operation increased by more than 30 percent. While there is
debate about the extent to which this was triggered by the increase in tariffs or the
privatization. While it is clear that the increase in users increased prior to the
privatization, it is less clear that the increase would have been as sustainable or cost-
effective without the infusion of capital and expertise represented by the privatization of
CRT.
Table 6: Lines in Service
95          96           97           98
Number of phones in service      777,056      946,447    1,161,932    1,578,522
Number of cellular telephones in  77,853      176,241      359,652      635,877
service
14.   Tariffs: The concession under which CRT provides service was approved by the
Federal regulatory authority, ANATEL. This regulatory authority authorized a
rebalancing of the tariff structure of CRT (and other providers in Brazil) as shown in the
table below.
Table 7: Tariff Rebalancing: Changing Prices for Basic Telephony (Reais)
94        95         96         97         98
Connection charge          1,007      1,007      1,117       300         80
Monthly rental              0.44        2.7        2.7        10         10
Local telephony charge     0.019      0.019      0.036      0.058     0.054
Long distance              0.054      0.066      0.066      0.054     0.054
International               1.57       1.36       1.36       0.95      0.95
15.   This essentially allowed a large drop in the connection charge (which previously
had included an amount to purchase shares in the local phone company) together with an



48                              Annex B:
Privatization Program
increase in the monthly rental fee and the local telephone charge. At the same time long
distance and international calls started to fall in price. This rebalancing was done to
unwind the cross-subsidy that existed between local and long distance calls, as well as to
improve access to telephone services.
16.   Regulatory Issues: The privatizations of the other major portions of the Brazilian
telecommunications system have resulted in some temporary declines in the quality of
service, as the dramatic increase in the number of lines, combined with antiquated central
switching systems has led to a drop in the quality of service. Brazil's justice minister says
that he will impose a maximum fine of Rs$2.9 million (US$1.8 million) on the phone
companies in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro because of the decline in service quality.
17.   One complicating factor is that Telef6nica de Espaha also won the bidding
process for the fixed link operations in Sao Paulo, and because of this, has been required
to divest itself of a majority portion of its shares in either one or the other of the two
concessions that it holds. It is therefore likely to divest itself of a controlling stake in
CRT.
18.   The other key regulatory issue is likely to be the introduction of competition in
the sector, starting with cellular service where a competitor in the 'B Band' is already
providing competition to the incumbent operators. An even more significant competitive
threat is likely to be the introduction of 'mirror' concessions, where new entrants will be
allowed to set up parallel networks to compete with the existing fixed-line incumbents.
C.    Electricity
19.   The RGS power company (Companhia Estadual de Energia Electrica - CEEE)
had the concession for power distribution in RGS and generated around 30 percent of its
requirements through a mixture of thermal and hydroelectric generation. The company
was vertically integrated, owning generation, transmission and distribution assets. The
former government divided CEEE into several companies (three distribution companies,
one transmission company and two generation companies, one thermal and one
hydroelectric). The plan was to sell two of the three distribution companies, transfer the
thermal company to the Federal government in return for debt reduction and later sale,
and retain the rest in state hands.
20.   The three distribution companies were split regionally, with one in the north of
the state and part of the Porte Alegre region, with 1,120,000 customers; one in the
western part of the state and part of the Porte Alegre region, with 720,000 customers and
one in the South-South-East with just over one million customers.



49                              Annex B:
Privatization Program
Table 8: Electricity Distribution Characteristics
Region                    Territory km2   Number of consumers     Market MWh
North-Northeast                 90,718             838,664            4,610,535
Center-west                     99,512             803,862            5,771,729
South-SouthEast                 73,363            1,088,070           5,060,085
21.   Privatization: The restructuring began in through the authorization of Law
10.900 which was passed in December 1996 by the legislative assembly. The
restructuring was undertaken by a consortium of Banco Fator, Kleinwort Benson,
Deutche Bank Morgan Grenfell, and a number of smaller legal and engineering firms.
The consortium bid a relatively low fixed fee of Rs$1.1 million for undertaking the
transaction, representing 0.2 percent of the value of the assets sold, less than the typical
transaction fee of between 0.5 and 1 percent of the assets sold. In August 1997 the
companies began operating as independent companies within CEEE.
22.   The government's strategy was to sell the companies as 'cleanly' as possible, in
other words, the bulk of the debt was left with CEEE, as were the bulk of the employees
in order to maximize the value of the offered companies. The two distribution companies
were sold in 1997 for Rs$2.5 billion. The thermal company, representing 490 MW of
generation capacity was transferred to the Federal government in December 1998 in
return for a reduction of the debt of Rs$508 million.
23.   Of the Rs$3.14 billion raised in the process, Rs$ 1.1 billion was left within CEEE
to help pay down the liabilities of the company. Rs$2.035 billion went to the State
Treasury, Rs$300 million of which was used to pay for a road paving program, and the
rest into a Fund for reform of the state to be used in education, health, public security,
public debt and strategic investments.
24.   Operational Results: The two privatized distributors have increased their labor
productivity significantly (although comparisons are difficult because of the fact that the
companies did not operate for a long time under the umbrella of CEEE). Overall labor
numbers for CEEE as a whole have, however, fallen significantly from over 8,000 to
around 2,000 today, increasing labor productivity as shown in the chart below. Around
2,500 employees were transferred to the successor companies, including 1,091 to the
Center-West distributor, 868 to the North-North-East distributor, and 631 to the thermal
generator.
Table 9: Labor Productivity in CEEE
95          96            97           98
Number of consumers per employee  284.3        307.9        365.7         567
Energy sold per employee (MWh)    1471         1789         2258         2762



50                                  Annex B:
Privatization Program
25.   Nonetheless, overall financial results for CEEE have declined post-privatization
as a result of the fact that costs have not fallen as fast as the revenues diminished as a
result of two of the distributors being privatized.
26.   Quality of Service: The quality of service has not changed dramatically as a
result of the privatization as shown from the data below. The recent blackouts, as a result
of nationwide shortages, will probably affect the statistics negatively for this year.
Table 10: Quality of Service in Electricity
95     96     97         98
Duration of interruption (hours per consumer).       34.36  28.36   13.3       18.84
Frequency of interruptions exceeding three minutes per  31.8   29.7   15.1      19.3
customer.
Complaints per 1000 customers.                        107   98.1    96         97.33
Level of losses (% of power consumed and billed).     13.5   11.2   12.1       10.52
27.   Access to services is virtually complete in urban areas, at 99.5 percent, while the
rate of access in rural areas is lower, it is still relatively high at 86 percent.
28.   Tariffs: Tariffs were increased prior to privatization by 9.75 percent in April
1997, to around 8.5 c/kWh and another tariff increase has been requested.
29.   Regulatory Issues: One of the key regulatory issues has been a dispute between
the electricity distributors and the rural electricity cooperatives (RECs) that operate
within their service territory. These RECs receive subsidized power from the distributors,
and hence charge a lower tariff than the local distributor. In recent months, however these
RECs have been aggressively expanding into suburban areas which the distributors argue
is contrary to the exclusivity guaranteed in their concession contracts. This dispute will
eventually have to be resolved by either the federal regulator, ANEEL, or the local
regulatory authority, AGERGS.
30.   In the short run, the sale of assets of the federal electric company (Electrobras) is
also likely to have a significant impact on the distributors as well, as new contractual
forms, and potentially greater competition in the generation sector start to be felt. In the
longer run, Brazil will move to a regime which will allow competition in supply, that is
for suppliers other than the local distributor to supply power to customers, paying a rental
fee for the use of the distributor's wires. This will have a significant impact in the
business in the medium to long term.
D.    Water and Sanitation
31.   The state government controls CORSAN (Companhia Riograndense de Agua y



51                             Annex B:
Privatization Program
Saneamento), the state water company which operates in some 300 municipalities
throughout the state. It was clear throughout the preparation of the loan that reform of
CORSAN would be more difficult to sell as was recognized through the fact that a single
floating tranche of US$20 million was set aside for the accomplishment of the water
reform component of the loan. One of the conditions was the preparation of study of
reform options which was financed under the World Bank Water Sector Modernization
Program.
32.   Privatization: The study of reform options came up with a series of proposals
that was mirrored in the State Reform Project. These options included:
awarding one or more of the integrated systems serving municipalities in the Porto Alegre
Metropolitan area to private concessionaires:
a) award one or more full service management contracts (FSMC) to private firms
for the operation of some of CORSAN's medium and small-size systems
serving about 150,000 to 200,000 people;
b) award to cooperatives an undetermined number of very small-size systems,
mainly in urban areas.
c) selling either 51 percent of CORSAN's shares to a group of private investors
or selling majority control of a number of CORSAN's proposed geographic
regions.
34.   The govermment eventually decided to sell a minority stake, i.e., 49 percent of
CORSAN. These plans were discussed during the course of the preparation of the
loan, and operationalized by the plans to hire an investment bank, in January
1998, but these were blocked by the courts on the grounds that a consultant had
already been hired (to do the options study). In any case, the plans for sale were
not sufficiently advanced by October 1998 that eventually the idea was shelved
until after the elections, and afterwards dropped entirely.
35.   The difficulties associated with the sale of CORSAN included:
a) lack of clarity with regard to the strategy to be undertaken;
b) legal difficulties relating to the fact that CORSAN's business is provided via a
large number of concession contracts with municipalities within the state;
c) the short time with which the government had to undertake such complex
reforms;
d) The strong vested interests, mainly by CORSAN's employees, of maintaining
public ownership of the company.
36.   Future reforms in the sector involving private participation will have to be more
carefully planned and incorporate solutions to the political, legal, financial and economic
issues faced with reforms in this sector.
37.   Operational Results: Meanwhile, some actions have been taken to increase
CORSAN's productivity, including reducing the number of employees. The increase iri
productivity of these employees as shown in the table below indicate that the number of



52                                Annex B:
Privatization Program
connections metered has increased as well, although CORSAN has not made significant
progress on reducing the level of water losses.
Table 11: Productivity
95    96    97    98
Connections per employee             299   352   385   412
Water losses (% of water produced)    43    43    41    43
Connections Metered (%)               59    60    61    65
38.   Quality of Service: One of the major difficulties that CORSAN has, as with the
other SWCs, is in extending its sewerage network and wastewater treatment facilities.
Lacking funds to undertake the investments itself, and in the absence of any likely public
investments, coverage levels are likely to remain at extremely low levels as shown in the
table below for some time to come.
Table 12: Access to Services
95       96        97       98
Access to water (% of population)       95.5       98      98.8     99.7
Access to sewerage (% of population)      9        17        17       18
39.   Tariffs: CORSAN's tariff structure is standard for a Brazilian water company,
including a monthly basic service charge and a per cubic meter (volumetric) charge. To
these prices, a charge equal to 70 percent of the volumetric charge for those customers
connected to the sewerage network.
Table 13: CORSAN's Tariff (Reals)
Base Price One   Basic Service   Minimum
Cubic Meter                      Tariff
Social                      0.56             2.64             8.24
Domestic                    1.18             5.56            17.36
Commercial                  1.34             9.91            36.71
Industrial                  1.34            19.80            46.60
Public                      1.52            19.80            70.30
40.   Current Issues: The state is unusual for the fact that a number of the largest
municipalities have opted to supply themselves. In particular, the municipality of Porto
Alegre has operated as an independent municipal operation for many years, and is now



53                             Annex B:
Privatization Program
being joined by other major towns in the state, such as Novo Hamburgo, which are all
now operating their water supply systems as independent municipal companies.
41.   As an increasing number of municipalities opt out of CORSAN's service
provision, CORSAN will be increasingly left with an unprofitable rump of
municipalities, but still have its central overheads to service. Its financial viability may
therefore become increasingly untenable.
42.   Some factors have been at work in reducing CORSAN's long-term viability,
however. These include the fact that major municipalities like Novo Hamburgo have just
or are in the process of opting out of CORSAN's service area. Given the federal
government's strong policy with regard to the state water companies (i.e., no new money
until privatizations and/or concessions are awarded), the pressure on CORSAN is likely
to grow over the next few years.
E.   Regulation
43.   As part of the government's privatization program, the government established a
cross-sectoral regulatory agency that was designed to regulate the public services
provided within the ambit of the state. The regulatory agency, known as the Agencia
Estadual de RegulaVao dos Serviqos Ptiblicos Delegados do Rio Grande do Sul
(AGERGS) was established by law in March 1997.
44.   Within the approximately year and a half that the agency has been operating, it
has started to make decisions, for instance ruling on whether public vehicles should pay
tolls, made preliminary judgements on the issue of competition between the regional
electricity cooperatives and the electricity distributors among other matters. It is also
filling out the staff of the agency, publishing information, and generally establishing itself
by developing its internal structure and an providing an Ethics Code for staff.
45.   The agency was established as a council of seven representatives, three of whom
were appointed by the state governnent, two by consumer groups, and one by the
concessionaires. A seventh representative is due to be nominated by the staff, but has not
yet been appointed as staffing has not been completed.
46.   A number of challenges and complexities have beset the agency since its
establishment, most notably the hostility of the current government to its existence. As
was envisaged when the reforms took place the agency can only really operate as allowed
via the delegation of authority from other powers. This is most obvious in the case of
electricity where it has signed an agreement with the Federal agency which allows it to
regulate some aspects of local electricity provision in the state.
47.   The key controversy at present, however, is the legal challenge the current
government has placed at the Federal Court. The government is challenging the right of
the previous government to nominate the representatives for fixed terms which do not



54                               Annex B:
Privatization Program
coincide with the tenn of government, and wants the right to nominate representatives,
and more broadly, challenges the notion that the agency should be 'independent' of the
executive branch of government. These challenges are presently compromising the
sustainability of the regulatory agency.
F.    Conclusions
48.   The state's strategy seems to have been predominantly oriented towards
maximizing the sales value of the companies sold, somewhat at the expense of other
goals such as improving service quality or access to services (although increasing
coverage was successfully pursued in the case of telecommunications). In maximizing
sale value, the governments actions were very successful, in part because the sales were
undertaken prior to the devaluation of the Real and the full impact of the Asian crisis.
Indeed, the privatization of the distributors, as measured relative to the minimum reserve
price and size of the companies, were one of the most successful in the country.
49.   The major failure was the problem related to trying to sell a minority stake in
CORSAN, particularly due the complex legal issues and political sensitivity of the sector.
Combined with a very tight timetable driven by the political calendar, the reform attempt
failed. It should be noted, however, that RGS is not unique in this regard and that reform
of the water and sanitation sector has been the least successful component of the
privatizations in other states, notably Rio de Janeiro with its failed attempt to sell
CEDAE.
50.   In the public's mind, large increases in some components of the tariff for
telephony (notably the fixed monthly charge) particularly and to a lesser extent in
electricity, were tied to the privatization. The most clearly welfare-enhancing action
(other than the major fiscal benefit from privatization) has been the expansion in the
number of fixed lines and cellular phones in the state, reducing the considerable backlog
of unmet demand.
51.   The sustainability of the reforms will depend in large measure on the
sustainability of the regulatory arrangements, and whether consumers start to see real
benefits from the reforms (other than the significant expansion of the telecoms system
which has been the most visible sign to date).



55                               Annex C:
Ports Concessions
Annex C: Port Concessions
A.           Introduction and Background
1.    The Port of Rio Grande (PRG) plays a significant role in Brazil's export
economy. It is the second largest port in Brazil, in terms of container movements, with a
12 percent market share. Historically the port has been the gateway for Brazil's
soybeans, exporting about 3.6 million tons of goods in 1980, almost 3 million of which
were soy beans or soybean products26. Since 1980, the port has broadly diversified its
export products to include other agricultural products, petrochemicals, and other
commodities and primary manufactured goods. In 1998 the port exported about 8.2
million tons and imported about 5.7 million tons for an average annual export growth rate
of about 7 percent. Container movements also increased substantially growing by almost
100 percent between 1995 and 1998. The increase in trade volume demonstrates the
growth of the Brazilian economy and the ability of the PRG to accommodate this growth.
2.    The diversification of cargo growth includes such export products as tobacco,
resins (plastics), rice, wood, leather goods, shoes, cigarettes, rubber, poultry, paper
products. The port has been transformed from a bulk soy exporting port to a major
container, liquid and bulk handling facility.
3.    The growth in goods movements through the port has been accomplished
primarily through major improvements in port operations and investment in capital
intensive facilities. In the 1980's many of the export goods arrived by train. The lack of
appropriate handling and sorting of train movements lead to significant delays in
unloading and loading of ships and distribution of goods to warehouse. This was
especially a problem at the Porto Novo which required much more yard handling than the
newer Superport. The average car cycle time for Porto Novo was five days vs. 64 hours
for the Superport reflecting the higher efficiency of the Superport as a result of improved
capital facilities and a reduction in required labor inputs. Another area that required
significant improvement was on the ship loading and unloading cycle. Historically, a
large percentage of the ships berthed at more than one dock to load. This loading
procedure was due to inefficient management rather than the physical port layout. As the
port operations shifted from Porto Novo to the Superport, ship loading and unloading
times improved, but were still very inefficient relative to ports in the U.S. and Canada.2"
4.    To address some of these problems, the PRG began a capital intensive investment
program to upgrade the port. It shifted operations from the Porto Novo to the Superport
with expanded port, terminal and warehouse facilities. The Superport's new wheat and
soy terminal was the most significant early improvement, but the investment in this
26    Marcus, et.al. (1985) "Improving Transportation Performance Without Major Capital Investment:
A Preliminary Analysis of Operations in The Port of Rio Grande, Brazil", Transportation Planing and
Technology, 1985, Vol. 10. Pp. 219-233.
27    Ibid.



56                               Annex C:
Ports Concessions
facility was still hampered by operational inefficiencies28. As Brazil's export market
expanded and the composition of these exports also shifted (from agricultural
commodities only to include primary manufactured goods), the Superport also adapted to
these changes with the addition of a container terminal, liquid petrochemical, fertilizer
and refrigeration facilities.
5.    As exports for Brazil's economy became more important, the federal government
recognized the need to decentralize its port operations and to make them more efficient.
In 1993 it passed a port reorganization law, Lei No. 8.630, that attempts to adapt the
organization of the ports to the need to expand port investments and to make them more
efficient. The federal government transferred port assets to the State governments, who
in turn have the authority to concession out port operations, including investment in new
facilities. However, the primary focus of the new law was the reorganization of the port's
administrative structure. The law allows for the creation of several new entities including
the Adminstraqao do Porto, the Gestdo de Mao de Obra, the Conselho de Autoridade
Portuaria and the AdministraVdo Aduaneira.
6.    The general purpose of the law  was to transfer port assets to the State
governments and allow them to make the ports more efficient through changes in the
general organization of the port, especially labor rules. This required a new approach to
organized labor and the relationship of labor to other port stakeholders such as the
shipping owners, import-export companies, multi-modal transportation companies (train,
riverboat, and trucks), and general port operators. The State would administrate the port
and act in the interests of the general community to provide efficient transportation
services for imports and exports.
7.    The Administrafao do Porto for the Port of Rio Grande is the Superintendencia
do Porto de Rio Grande (SUPRG). It is the State government entity responsible for all
port operations and activities and plans for the port's strategic development. It owns the
port assets and has the right to offer these assets to private parties for their operation via
concession and other types of private sector contracts. The SUPRG can also provide for
private operators to invest in new facilities such as an expansion of their warehouse
facilities or terminals, including equipment.  It also maintains the infrastructure
supporting the port (both sea and land side) and sets tariffs for operations and
maintenance of the ports. These include charges for use of shipping channels and quays;
lights, telephone, roads, etc.; temporary storage facilities; port equipment (e.g. cranes);
and other general charges such as tonnage fees.
8.    The Gestao de Mao de Obra is the organization that represents the port workers
(avulsos).  The new  law tries to balance the interests of the workers with the
Administraqdo do Porto. The Gestao maintains a catastro of eligible port workers that
port operators can use. It can also allow these workers to leave the "Gestdo" and work
28    Ibid.



57                             Annex C:
Ports Concessions
permanently for the port operator. The law requires that the port operators allow for
collective bargaining and settle labor disputes via arbitration. The changes in labor rules
have helped improve the port's productivity and have complemented the leasing of public
facilities to private operators.
9.    The Conselho de Autoridade Portuarua (CAP) is the advisory body to the
SUPRG. It is comprised of the shipping owners, representatives from the SUPRG, port
workers, (Gestao), port operators, and local government (state and municipality). It
negotiates tariff levels with the SUPRG, provides an opinion on the port budget, and
advises the SUPRG on the ports strategic development plans.
10.   The reorganization of the Port of Rio Grande's administration, as provided in Lei
8.630, allows for the further efficient development of the port. To complement this law
the SUPRG has made an effort to further encourage private sector participation in port
operations to reduce labor costs and to improve operating efficiency. These include staff
reductions and the concession of major tenninal facilities.
11.  In addition to staff reductions, SUPRG extended the participation of the private
sector in port operations. The PRG has a long history of private sector involvement in
port operations. Some of the major conmnodities companies have leased terminal
facilities from the public sector since the late 1970s. As Brazil's exports of soy and soy
products grew, the port also provided additional facilities for other cargo.
B.   Project Objectives, Results and Implementation Experience
12.   The Objectives of the Port element of the State Reform Loan (SRL) were twofold:
(i) to reduce permanent port personnel in SUPRG and (ii) concession 6 additional port
facilities - Wheat and Soy Terminal (including silos and installations), Petroleum and
Container Piers, Refrigeration, Liquid Bulk Terminal (34,000 cubic meters for vegetable
oils; and two Storage Warehouses).
13.  In regards to the first objective, SUPRG has successfully reduced its permanent
labor staff primarily with the voluntary departure program (PDV) financed a tax on
loading/unloading cargo) from 1089 employees at the beginning of 1996 to 302 by the
end of 1998.
14.   Current expenditures for SUPRG have also decreased from about Rs$27 million
in 1996 to Rs$24 in 1999, a decline of about 10 percent over a three year period. The
largest expenditure item, PDV payments, comprising over 63 percent of current costs,
will be significantly reduced in the next few years as the voluntary departure program
ends.  Other significant costs include third party contracts for water and sewer,
warehousing, and freight carrying charges. These are variable expenditures that depend
on the amount of cargo moving through the port and will increase with growing cargo
volume. However, some additional expenditure reductions are possible if the SUPRG



58                                 Annex C:
Ports Concessions
successfully bids out its warehousing and intra-port freighting activities to the private
sector.
15.   The SUPRG  entered into concession agreements29 for the Petroleum  and
Container Piers and the Wheat and Soy Terminal which comprise over 76 percent of the
port cargo movements.  SUPRG  was not able to find sufficient interest in the
Refrigeration, Liquid Bulk and Storage Warehouse. These facilities remain under public
operation. The latter facilities only provide a small amount of the ports total cargo
movements. With the completion of the above concessions, the port is over 90 percent
operated by private parties with almost 100 percent of its cargo movements provided by
private operators.
16.   Operating income from the rental agreements has also increased as port volume
grew. Total rental income from private lease contracts doubled between 1997 and 1998
from Rs$3.7 to Rs$7.4 million. Rental income from private parties now covers about 30
percent of the port's operating costs. The recently concessioned facilities including the
wheat and soy, petroleum and container terminals generate over 75 percent of the total
rental income".
C.    Future Operations and Sustainability
17.   Private sector participation in port operations has been growing steadily since the
1970s. Private companies operate almost all of the ports 19 terminals. The 1993 port
modernization law combined with the staff-reduction program and further concessions of
the major port terminals have given the PRG significant efficiency gains and has well
positioned the port to compete for Brazil and Mercosur's port traffic. The gains made by
the port appear to be sustainable as private port operators handle almost all of the port's
cargo traffic. Nevertheless, it appears that further gains through private sector operations
are presently limited with the current administration. The process for privatizing the
warehouses and the refrigeration units has stopped after the SUPRG was not able to
attract any interest from the private sector to rent these facilities. It is possible that the
private sector does not perceive any gains in operating these facilities and completion of
the privatization effort may not be possible, even with government incentives.
18.   Another factor that will encourage sustainability of the port operations and the
private operations of the port is the structure of the lease contracts. For example, the
lease contract between SUPRG and Terminal Graneleiro, S.A. for the Wheat and Soy
tertninal gives the company a great deal of latitude to expand its terminal facilities based
on growth in wheat and soy cargo movements. The contract encourages the company to
invest in new equipment to expand terminal facilities as demand grows and to also
29     The concession agreements are called "Rental Contracts", that have an initial term of 15 years
renewable for another 15 years. They are long term leases that allow the contractor to expand the facilities
based on its business growth.
30     All operating expense and rental income statistics provided by SUPRG.



59                              Annex C:
Ports Concessions
improve the efficiency of the operations.
19.   The lease rental payments also encourage cooperation between the two parties to
insure the profitability of the private operation while at the same time providing the
SUPRG with reasonable rental payments. The rental payments have a fixed and a
variable component. The variable component is based on a percentage of services
provided by the company. Services are related -to the movement of goods through the
terminal. This percentage is set by the company but reviewed and approved by SUPRG.
The contract also provides for a minimum amount of tonnage to move through the
terminal as "guaranteed" revenue for the SUPRG, but this amount is fixed after the third
year of the contract.
20.   Although the contract balances the interests of SUPRG and the company, the
language to maintain the economic viability of the contract is rather vague which may
cause future problems in the interpretation of the specific clauses. For example, the
clause regarding the "economic and financial equilibrium" does not define how this
equilibrium will be maintained, but only indicates the factors used to assess the
equilibrium. The contract does not define the events that may change the equilibrium,
how the equilibrium will be re-established, and who will determine when it is re-
established. In addition, there is no indication in the contract of how the company will
recuperate any additional investment it may make in expanded port facilities. Further
complicating the matter of contract interpretation is the regulation of port activities.
21.   The contract makes it clear that the SUPRG has the responsibility to monitor the
company and its operations.  It does not provide any "performance indicators", but
simply states that the SUPRG can intervene if it determines that the company is not
operating the terminal properly. This intervention can only occur under "exceptional"
circumstances, but these are not defined.
22.   The contract also provides for inflation adjustment for the fixed rental payments,
but indicates that the payments can be altered based on changes in the Federal
Government's political economy, such as the monetary base. It does not indicate the
procedure for changing rental payments in the event of a change in the political economy
or what constitutes other changes in the "political economy".
23.   Another area that may create future contract problems is the contract termination
clause. This clause allows the SUPRG to unilaterally terminate the contract based on
SUPRG's subjective interpretation of the company's performance, such as "inadequate or
deficient operations." The lack of objective performance indicators provides room for
political interference and possible termination for reasons other than the company's
performance.
24.   The lack of clarity in the contract on the issues raised above will require the
contract regulator, SUPRG, to interpret events as they unfold. However, it is not clear to
what extent the State Regulatory Agency, AGERGS, has the authority to also regulate the



60                               Annex C:
Ports Concessions
contract and intervene in disputes between the company, SUPRG and/or users of the
terminal facilities (ship owners). The State law that created AGERGS gives it the
authority to regulate port activities which may conflict with SUPRG's regulatory rights
provided in the lease contract.
D.    Other Impacts Associated with the Port Reform Program
25.   The major immediate impact of the Port Reform Program is the fiscal impact of
reducing personnel costs and the positive revenue impact of the terminal lease payments.
Additional positive impacts include further investments in port facilities, expansion of
port services and improved port operating efficiencies to support the growth of Brazil's
economy.
26.   As indicated above, the SUPRG  has significantly reduced permanent and
temporary personnel in the PRG. In addition, the State is also in the process of reducing
personnel in other ports operated by the Departamento Estadual de Rios, Portos e Canais
(DEPRC). DEPRC has achieved its goal of reducing total staff by about 70 percent and
has encouraged temporary personnel to retire. However, with the recent change in
administration, personnel reductions have probably stabilized.
27.   Another important impact of the PRG concession program is the investment in
new port facilities by the terminal concessionaires. The lease contracts allow the private
terminal operators to expand their facilities. This will permit the PRG to keep pace with
the growth in cargo and also to modernize its facilities to support a growing economy.
However, as previous studies have indicated3", investment in capital facilities does not
necessarily mean significant gains in operating efficiency. Changes in the management
of the port facilities and improvements in work rules are also necessary to reduce costs
and increase productivity. These gains should be possible as the PRG is increasingly
operated by the private sector and as the leasing companies are able to shift personnel
from the "Gestao" labor pool to direct control by the companies. One example of
efficiency gains achieved by improvements in capital facilities and operations
management is the container terminal. PRG's container terminal handles, on a monthly
average, 28.2 containers per hour, considered by Maersk as one of the most efficient
terminals in Brazil.32
E.    Key Lessons Learned
28.   Marketing  Effort for  the  Refrigeration  Terminal  and  Warehouse
Concessions: SUPRG failed to lease its refrigeration and warehouse facilities. This
might have been due to the commercial risks associated with these facilities in general or
3\ 1  Marcus, Op.Cit.
32    This is anecdotal evidence provided by the PRG. Container movements per hour depend on the
number of cranes and unloading facilities at different ports. It is difficult to compare container movements
per crane per hour among ports as this information is not readily available.



61                               Annex C:
Ports Concessions
the terms and conditions of the lease arrangement as indicated in the Edital. In hindsight,
the SUPRG might have done a more in-depth marketing analysis to determine the
projected commercial uses of these facilities and whether or not there was sufficient
interest in the private sector to bid for their use. If the studies showed a lack of
commercial viability for these facilities, the SUPRG might have considered alternative
uses for this area in the development of its strategic plan.
29.   Contract Regulation:  One of the potential areas of future conflict is the
regulation of the lease contracts. The lease contracts provide for SUPRG to regulate all
contract clauses. The contracts do not mention any regulatory or supervisory activity of
the State Regulator, AGERGS. The State law creating AGERGS gives this entity
jurisdiction to regulate ports, but it is not clear to what extent it can intervene in the lease
contracts. This may be a problem if future disputes arise regarding interpretation of the
contract, such as the adjustment of rental payments; the permission to construct new
facilities; maintenance of the financial-economic equilibrium; and the ability of the
SUPRG to terminate the contract. Whenever a new regulator is created (whether in one
sector or multi-sectoral), the law should take into account the ability of the concession
grantor to amend the existing contracts to accommodate the jurisdiction of the new
regulator. However, this is a difficult task, as the bidders on contracts would then have to
consider additional regulatory risk and the uncertainty associated with a different contract
regulatory structure. The regulatory mechanisms included in the contract should not
change, but the entity carrying out the regulatory functions may change. If a concession
contract is sufficiently clear and detailed this should not present a problem. Troubles
arise when contracts are vague and interpretation of the contract is very subjective.
Problems also arise when the government's executive branch implicitly regulates a sector
(such as the Ministry of Transport for road concessions) and a new regulator is created in
that sector after a concession contract is let. The law creating the new regulatory body
should be clear about the transition from the existing regulator to the new regulator.
Contracts should be sufficiently clear and detailed to reduce, to the extent possible,
regulatory risk, but they may provide for a change in the regulator. In the case of the
PRG lease contracts, there are many vague clauses that may have a subjective
interpretation depending on the point of view of the regulator.
30.   Financial-Economic Equilibrium: One of the problems with the lease contract
(and most other concession contracts in Brazil) is the legal requirement to maintain the
"financial-economic equilibrium" of the concession contract.  However, the port
concession contracts (and most others in Brazil) do not contain any events or clauses that
define how this equilibrium will be maintained or what happens in the event that there is
a "disequilibrium". One of the ways in which the SUPRG can mitigate the "financial-
economic equilibrium" risk is to provide for a rate stabilization fund from tariff revenues.
This stabilization fund can also be used to adjust tariffs for the PRG to remain
competitive with other regional ports. As operating efficiencies for SUPRG activities are
improved and port operating expenses reduced, additional tariff revenues can be used to
stabilize tariffs in the future or to reduce tariffs to make the PRG more competitive. The
additional funds can also be used for capital improvements, but these should be limited to



62                                Annex C:
Ports Concessions
the public infrastructure elements such as quays, dredging, land-side infrastructure (roads,
rail and other connections; telecommunications, etc.).
31.   Revenues to support the rate stabilization fund can come from tariff revenue that
grows unexpectedly as a result of increased cargo activity through the port.
Alternatively, tariff revenue can also flow to the fund as the PDV program winds down
and current operating expenses are reduced. This additional income may be lost if the
current surcharge on loading/unloading is terminated or if port activity declines. In the
event that this surcharge is maintained, it can be used to establish the rate stabilization
fund and also provide funds for infrastructure improvements. The fund would of course
need to be well-shielded from possible government use for other purposes.
32.   In regards to mitigating financial-economic equilibrium risk, the rate stabilization
program can be designated to provide revenues to the concessionaires in the event that the
Federal Government's "political economy" changes and the SUPRG has to reduce or
severely limit lease rental payments from the concessionaires. On the other hand, if the
equilibrium goes the other direction, i.e. the concessionaires receive "windfall" profits
from their operations, lease rental payments should increase. The increased payments can
be used to flow into the rate stabilization fund or for infrastructure improvements.
However, to determine the extent to which the concessionaire companies are either
gaining or losing income as a result of changes to Brazil's "political economy", careful
regulation of the companies profits and return on investment is necessary. The SUPRG is
not currently set up to calculate this return. It is also not clear that the lease contracts
would allow the SUPRG to gather sufficient and reliable data to calculate the return.
Nevertheless, the SUPRG (or AGERGS) may consider this as a future step in the
regulation of the port and the creation of a rate stabilization fund.33
33    A Rate Stabilization Fund also can be used to provide creditors with additional security for
SUPRG debt obligations.



63                             Annex D:
Roads Concessions
Annex D: Roads Concessions
A.   Introduction and Background
1.    The State of Rio Grande do Sul initiated two significant reforms in the road
sector: an institutional sector reform of the Departamento Aut6nomo De Estradas de
Rodagem (DAER) and a road concession program. The institutional sector reform
includes a restructuring of DAER primarily through a reduction of employees and a
reorganization of its maintenance operations through third party contracts. The toll road
program was initiated by the state as a result of the transfer of federal roads in RGS by
the federal government's Departmento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (DNER).
2.    The agreement for the transfer of the federal roads requires RGS to maintain these
highways, but it does not supply any federal funds to cover maintenance costs. However,
the agreement provides for the state to collect tolls on these roads through a private
concession contract. In addition to the cost recovery incentive provided by the federal
road transfer agreement, the state was also interested in improving the maintenance of its
state roads. The toll road program is the first step in recovering costs for maintenance of
its road network.
3.    RGS's toll road program introduced an innovation for bidding on toll road
maintenance concessions in Brazil with its concept of "concession poles". RGS analyzed
the maintenance cost requirements for its paved road network over a 15 year period. It
then projected annual average daily traffic for this time period, and tested alternative
tariff levels and project rates of return to determine whether segments of its paved road
network could support private sector investment in road maintenance. DAER's objective
was to have the concessionaire maintain the longest segment of a network of roads at a
uniform tariff level. The result of it's financial feasibility analysis was the creation of
nine "concession poles" with each poll including, at a minimum, three secondary roads
that fed into an inter-city connecting road. The inter-city connecting roads were, for the
most part, formner federal roads transferred to RGS, as these roads carried the minimum
traffic to support a private toll road. The secondary roads and the connecting highway
formed a "concession pole" which contained toll plazas for collecting tariffs. DAER
determnined that nine concession poles would support private sector participation. The
nine concession poles were included in the Bank's policy matrix for the State Reform
Loan (SRL) in addition to the reduction of DAER personnel that was part of the SRL's
administrative and fiscal reforms to reduce the State's current operating expenditures.
B.   Project Objectives, Results and Implementation Experience
4.    The State's objective was to implement nine "concession poles" to cover 22
percent of the paved network. As the Table 1 below indicates, the State achieved these
objectives with some minor qualifications.



64                                  Annex D:
Roads Concessions
5.     The State awarded the nine proposed concession poles, but only seven of these are
currently in operation because of events that occurred during the concession process. The
non-perfonning concessions, Pelotas and Santa Maria were awarded, but suspended. In
the Pelotas concession, three municipalities wanted to extend the amount of secondary
roads maintained by the concessionaire. A financial feasibility study was done to
evaluate the financial impact on the concessionaire's rate of return. Because of increased
concessionaire investment, the consultants recommended adding another toll plaza to the
"concession pole" to maintain the "financial equilibrium" 3 of the concession contract.
DAER and the concessionaire still have not reached an agreement on this issue.
6.    In the Santa Maria concession, the State was responsible for re-surfacing 2
segments of the highway network included in this concession pole. The State did not
complete the work so the concessionaire did not begin its improvements. DAER is
studying various options to resolve this impasse such as re-negotiating the contract,
imposing penalties on the concessionaire, or canceling the concession contract.
7.     The chart also demonstrates that the State achieved the goal of transferring
rehabilitation and maintenance responsibilities for 22 percent of its network to the private
sector. This amounts to over Rs$2 billion (in 1997 Reais) over the 15 year concession
term. The Edital for the nine concessions required a minimum of 2,341 km. to be
maintained by the concessionaires, but the winning bidders offered to maintain 2,548 km.
almost a 9 percent premium over the baseline. If only the 1740 km. of the functioning
concessions are considered, the State still has transferred over 20 percent of its paved
operating network to the private sector. The total investment for these seven operating
concessions is over Rs$1.7 billion, a major savings for the state budget over the 15 year
concession period.
8.     The Rs$2.2 billion expenditure by the concessionaires over the duration of the
concession is twice as high as the Rs$1.1 billion estimated by DAER in the preliminary
technical and economic studies prepared for the bidding. The average rate of return of the
concessions estimated by the concessionaires in their proposals, 19.04 percent, was
slightly higher than the return estimated by DAER's projections for the bidding. This
appears to indicate that concessionaire's traffic growth projections are substantially
higher than those projected by DAER.  This poses the risk to DAER  that the
concessionaires will not achieve their indicated rates of return and will look for ways to
adjust the financial-economic equilibrium to achieve their returns. This is potentially a
significant issue that may have an impact on the concessions in the future and the
willingness of the concessionaires to expend the anticipated amounts for rehabilitation
and maintenance. Indeed, one of the concessionaires has expressed its concern about the
34     Brazilian Federal and Rio Grande State concession laws provide for the concessionaire to
maintain a "reasonable" rate of return on their investment. If circumstances change that disrupt that return
they have the right to further compensation to return to the financial "equilibrium" indicated in the
concession contract. There are significant issues associated with this concept which are discussed below.



65                                  Annex D:
Roads Concessions
changes that have occurred since the release of the bidding. They claim that the delays in
beginning the concession caused by the government will have an impact on the contract's
financial-economic equilibrium35.
9.     The concessionaire claims that the delays in the awarding and signing of the
concession contracts and the start of the concessionaire roadwork resulted in a transfer of
the road to the concessionaire that was in worse condition than the condition assumed in
the bidding . This will require the concessionaire to make additional investments that
were not contemplated to achieve the rehabilitation and maintenance requirements
indicated in the Edital36, or bidding document. From the concessionaire's perspective,
the financial and economic conditions that were indicated in the Edital have changed
which should allow the concessionaire to readjust the financial-economic equilibrium.
The concession contract does not have a transparent, quantitative definition of financial-
economic equilibrium, but only reflects the general concept in the State Law that allows
the concessionaire a reasonable rate of return on his investment. Without a specific
quantitative method to define changes in the financial-economic equilibrium, the
concession contract is exposed to subjective interpretations of when this equilibrium
changes, such as the logic presented by the concessionaire in the above example. This is
one of the major problems with the road concession; the lack of a detailed concession
contract that provides more than general guidelines. It may also have an impact on future
operations and sustainability.
10.   DAER effectively executed the preparation, award and implementation of the
concession program. However, because of the innovative concession pole approach,
DAER did require more time and resources to implement the concession than has been
the experience with other concessions in Latin America. DAER spent about US$12
million for the technical and economic studies to ascertain the appropriate fixed tariff
levels and minimum amount of roads to maintain for the Edital. The engineering work
required DAER to develop detailed plans for the improvements it required for more than
2,800 km. or roads. Although the engineering work was important, DAER might have
considered shifting some of the resources from engineering to preparation of more
detailed concession contract, although it is not clear if more resources would have
changed the legal approach toward this document. The general concession contract
prepared for the RGS road concession was not substantially different from other road
concession documents used in Brazilian road concessions financed by local banks. These
35     See footnote I for a brief description of the financial - economic equilibrium concept.
36     Output measures are included in the concession contract by reference to the Edital. The Edital
provides the pavement output measures such as number and width of any holes; length and width of
pavement cracks; the smoothness of the surface, etc. The Edital is considered as a legal document, but it is
subordinate to the concession contract. As the concession contract does not specifically indicate the
pavement quality measures, it is not clear to what extent the concessionaire has to comply with the
quantitative measures indicated in the Edital, especially if the 3 year workplan, required by the concession
contract and approved by DAER, does not contain quantitative pavement quality output measures. This
issue demonstrates one of the concession's shortcomings - a concession contract that provides generai
guidelines and is imprecise will require a subjective interpretation by the Regulator.



66                                    Annex D:
Roads Concessions
contracts would most likely require modifications for projects financed with international
bank loans.
11.    The bidding and award process also had delays as some of the losing firrns
protested the results. These delays on some of the concession poles resulted in changed
circumstances, which may have a future impact on the financial-economic equilibrium as
discussed above.
C.    Future Operations and Sustainability
12.    One of the major issues confronting the road concession program is the potential
legal conflict between the concession contract and the AGERGS mandate to regulate road
concessions in respect to tariff adjustments. The contract allows for an annual tariff
increase due to inflation. It provides a specific formula and inflation indices which are
used to adjust the previous year's tariff. This mathematical formula is transparent and
should not create any disputes3". However, the concession contract also allows for the
revision of the Basic Tariff if events disrupt the concession's financial-economic
equilibrium. The contract does not specify what these events are, but leaves this
judgement up to DAER and the concessionaire. As indicated above, this is a significant
problem, as both sides will most likely have very different views regarding events that
disrupt the project's financial-economic equilibrium. In the cases where DAER and the
concessionaire do not agree on a Base Tariff adjustment, the concession contract provides
for the regulatory agency, AGERGS, to act as a mediator to resolve the conflict. The
contract implies that DAER has the right to set the tariff and that AGERGS only
intervenes if there is a dispute between DAER and the concessionaire with AGERGS
acting only in a mediating capacity and not in a final tariff judgement capacity. The law
creating AGERGS, however, gives it the power to establish the road concession tariff.
The language in the concession contract reflects the historical role of the government as
the authority in establishing rates for public services. This conflict between the role of
the State Government and the role of AGERGS to establish tariff levels will most likely
be resolved in the courts, which will take time.3" In the meantime, the government will
continue to impose its will on the concessionaire whose only recourse is to seek remedies
in the courts unless both sides can arrive at a compromise.
37     Although the mathematical calculation of the inflation adjustment is clear, the concessionaire has
the political risk that the government will not allow the increase. In fact, the government has not allowed
for the inflation adjustment for 1999 tariffs over the February, 1996 Base Tariff level indicated in the
contract. The Base Tariff ranges from $R 3.00 for a passenger car to $R 5.00 for commercial vehicles with
an additional SR 2.50 for each additional axle up to a maximum of $R 15.00. Most concessionaires began
collecting tariffs late last year at the Base Tariff level, but they have not been allowed to adjust the Base
Tariff for 1999 to reflect the inflation increase between February 1996 and December, 1998 as indicated in
the concession contract.
38     The present government considers some aspects of the law  that created AGERGS as
unconstitutional and currently is pursuing a case that will most likely end up in the national Supreme
Court. The State feels that AGERGS is an organ of the Executive Branch and as such the Executive
Branch has the right to re-appoint the government representatives on the AGERGS board. The case is
proceeding through the courts and will most likely take several years before it is resolved by the Supreme
Court.



67                             Annex D:
Roads Concessions
13.   Further diluting the authority of AGERGS is the dispute mechanism included in
the concession contract. In the event that DAER and the concessionaire cannot agree on
an issue, they can bring the dispute to an independent expert panel created specifically for
the issue in question. The concession contract implies, but does not clearly state, that the
decision of the panel is binding on both parties. This type of expert panel dispute
resolution is common in cases where there is no formal regulator. But in the current case,
AGERGS has the mandate to regulate the road concession obviating the need for an
expert panel.  This is another example of the conflict between the contract and
AGERGS's legal mandate which can have a negative impact on the future operation of
the road concessions.
14.  It appears that political interference in the implementation of the concession
contract will continue to plague the concessions in the immediate future. The conflict in
tariff setting authority between the government and AGERGS can threaten the viability of
the concessions. The current protest by the trucking industry claiming excessive tariffs is
an example of how the legal issued discussed above may have a negative effect on the
future sustainability of the concessions.
15.   The trucking industry has demanded a reduction in the tariffs paid by commercial
vehicles. They feel that the Base Tariff is excessive and have organized protests and
demonstrations against the concession program. AGERGS has intervened and suggested
to all parties to institute a moratorium on tariff increases for three months to study the
issue as to whether commercial vehicle tolls are to high. This is consistent with its
mediating role expressed in the concession contract, but it is unclear as to whether
AGERGS will impose a new tariff on the concessionaire after the study is completed.
The major issue for the tariff study is to determine whether any new Base Tariff disrupts
the financial-economic equilibrium. If the Base Tariff is lowered it will decrease the
concessionaire's rate or return which the concessionaires will surely claim, changes the
financial-economic equilibrium. How the proposed AGERGS study unfolds and the role
of AGERGS as a mediator or arbitrator of the road concession contract will have a major
impact on the viability of the road concession program.
D.   Other Impacts Associated with the Road Sector Reform Program
16.   Two other impacts to consider in the Road Sector Reform Program is the fiscal
impact on RGS's fiscal position and the broader economic impact of the road concession
program. DAER has undertaken a restructuring program to reduce the number of
employees which will reduce the State's current operating expenditures. DAER has
decreased its active employee payroll from 4,200 in 1995 to 2649 in 1998, a 37 percent.
The road concession program should help support the State's overall economic
development as road rehabilitation and maintenance improvements will reduce auto and
commercial vehicle operating costs through less wear and tear on the vehicles. The road
concession program will also have positive fiscal impacts for the state treasury as it will
not have to provide maintenance expenditures to DAER for the roads included in the toll



68                              Annex D:
Roads Concessions
road program. As indicated above, this amounts to a savings of up to Rs$2 billion over
1 5 years.
E.    Key Lessons Learned
17.   Conflicts between the Regulator, AGERGS and RGS:  Perhaps the most
important lesson learned in the concession pole program are the potential conflicts
created by the concession contract between the regulator AGERGS and the control of the
concession by DAER.  The concession contract was written from  the historical
perspective of government control of toll roads.  DAER plays the major role in
monitoring concessionaire performance and setting tariffs. In the event of disputes, the
contract provides for DAER and the concessionaire to create an expert panel that has the
final decision on the dispute. The contract considers AGERGS as a mediating party in
the revision of the Base Tariff, but the parties can still bring a tariff dispute to the expert
panel. In other words AGERGS is more of a bystander mediating a conflict.
18.  In future road concession programs where single or multi-sector independent
regulators are created by law, the Bank should, to the extent possible, review proposed
concession contracts to insure that they are consistent with the role of the proposed
regulator. This is a difficult task in that the timing of preparing the regulatory legislation
and the writing of the concession contract may not coincide. Nevertheless, it is critical
for Bank clients to carefully consider the future impact the concession contract language
will have on the credibility of the future regulator.
19.   Vague Concession Contracts: Related to the regulator and concession contract
issue is the lack of clarity and vague definitions in concession contracts for critical items
such as the financial-economic equilibrium, termination events, and other clauses. Lack
of clarity will lead to disputes and subjective interpretations of these clauses threatening
the viability of the concession program.
20.   Appropriate Resource Allocation: A third lesson to consider is the appropriate
allocation of resources in concession program preparation. DAER spent a significant
amount of resources on the technical aspects of the road concessions. Perhaps resource
allocation could have been shifted from engineering studies to developing a more detailed
and consistent concession contract. However, the lack of clarity in concession contracts
is probably due to the style of writing these contracts with an emphasis on flexibility,
rather than any lack in resources.
21.   Viability of the Concession Pole Concept: The concession pole concept appears
to be a good approach for maintenance concessions which Bank staff may consider in
other countries. When using a pole strategy, however, it is important to ensure a
consistent level of maintenance along the entire road network connecting the different
poles. In the case of RGS, some intermediate highway segments connecting different
poles have not been concessioned. Moreover, the state is exploring the possibility to
return these non-concessioned sections to the federal government, which would lead to



69                                        Annex D:
Roads Concessions
the uneven quality of the network.
Table 1
Road Concessions
Concession Pole        Awarded        Min. Km.          Con. Proposal       Concession    Concessionaire
Maint. Edital    Km. Maintained    In Operation    Investment (1)
Pelotas                   Yes                 539.00               551.50       No                279,790.00
Metropolitano             Yes                 510.00               536.00       Yes               377,425.00
Caxias Do Sol             Yes                 165.85               173.75       Yes               322,846.00
Vacaria                   Yes                 121.16               132.66       Yes               140,922.00
Gramado                   Yes                 110.37               131.97       Yes                71,601.00
Carazhinho                Yes                 209.38               250.40       Yes               253,455.00
Santa Maria               Yes                 249.21               256.21       Yes               209,973.00
Santa Cruz do Sul         Yes                 154.49               196.82       Yes               204,771.00
Lajeado                   Yes                 282.31               318.80       Yes               340,142.00
Total All Concessions                        2,341.77            2,548.11                       2,200,925.00
Total Operating Concessions                  1,553.56            1,740.40                       1,711,162.00
Total Paved Km. In Network                   8,600.00
% Total Paved Awarded to Concessionaires                          29.63%
% Total Paved in Operating Concessions                            20.24%
(I) Includes 455,639.00 concessionaire tax payment
* Source: DAER "Programa Estadual de Concessao Rodoviaria, Resumo Informativo



70                              Annex E
Mission's Aide Memoire
Annex E: Mission's Aide Memoire
RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE REFORM LOAN
Loan 4139-BR
Project Completion Mission
(March 15-19 de 1998)
Aide Memoire
A Bank mission composed by Mauricio Carrizosa (Task Manager), Phil Gray, Ben
Darche and Cecilia Zanetta visited Porto Alegre with the objective of conducting the
implementation completion review of the Rio Grande do Sul State Reform Loan.
Meetings were held with Mr. Arno Augustin Filho, Secretary of Finance, Arq. Clovis
Ilgenfritz da Silva, Secretary of State Planning, and other government officials. The
mission would like to thank the Government of Rio Grande do Sul for the valuable
assistance received during the mission.
The mission conducted a detailed review of the implementation of the project, which
closed on December 31, 1998. The objective of the Rio Grande do Sul State Reform
Project was to support the implementation of a series of reforms aimed at improving the
state's fiscal situation and its infrastructure and services. The focus of the mission was
on assessing the achievement of the project's objectives, the impact of each of the
project's activities, the major factors affecting implementation, and the prospects for its
sustainability in the medium and long term. To develop a more comprehensive
perspective in terms of the impact of the privatizations, meetings were held with several
of the stakeholders in each sector, including the corresponding regulatory agencies, the
concessionaires, and consumers groups.
The findings of the mission indicate that the project has been highly successful in terms
of the privatization of the power and telecommunication state-owned enterprises, the
concessioning of roads and port terninals, as well as the establishment of an adequate
regulatory framework that allows the state to monitor the quality of privately provided
services. The privatization of the water company was not implemented, thus the US$20
million amount corresponding to that activity was canceled. The performance was less
satisfactory in terms of the project's overall fiscal objectives, as the state's public
finances have not shown any significant improvement. These findings will be
developed further in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission's
specific findings are as described below.
Privatization of State-Owned Companies: The most important part of the state of
RGS Government's reform program has been the privatization of state-owned
companies (Table 1). In the area of public services, two major privatizations were
undertaken-the state-owned telecommunications company, CRT, and two electricity
distribution companies, representing approximately two-thirds of the territory of the



71                                Annex E
Mission's Aide Memoire
state. A further component of the electricity company, its thermal generation assets,
representing 490 MW of capacity, were transferred to the Federal Government as part
of a debt-swap agreement. An additional component of these reforms was the
establishment of a cross-sectoral regulatory agency, known as AGERGS, which was to
be responsible for regulating the public services in the State. The failed privatization of
CORSAN was the least successful part of the program. AGERGS has been slow to
receive delegated powers (it only recently received an agreement to regulate certain
aspects of electricity supply in the state from the Federal regulatory authority, ANEEL)
and is now embroiled in a dispute with the Government about whether certain
commissioners should be removed prior to the end of their appointments.
Table 1
Privatization Proceeds
Sector             Company                   Date        Proceeds
(Rs$ million)
Telecommunications   CRT 1st Tranche (35%)   12/96               681
CRT 2nd Tranche (50.12%)    6/98            1,176
Electricity        RGE                       10/97               895
AES-Sul                   10/97             1,635
CGTEE                     12/98              508*
Total                                                           4,895
* Reduction in state debt via 'Federalization' of company
Unlike the other states, where telephone service was until recently provided by
federally-owned subsidiaries of the Telebras system, RGS owned 85.4 percent of its
local telephone company, the Companhia Riograndense das Telecomunicaqoes (CRT).
The main objective of its privatization was to meet the considerable unmet demand
(estimated in January 1997, in the MOP to be around 700,000 fixed lines and 300,000
cellular connections), as well as a strong interest in more sophisticated services such as
data transmission, video conferencing and internet access.
The privatization of CRT was undertaken in two tranches, 35 percent being sold in
December 1996 to a consortium headed by Telef6nica de Espana. The group paid
Rs$681 million for the stake. The remainder of the government's shares were later sold
to the same consortium in June 1998 for Rs$1.176 million.
The result has been a considerable increase in the number of cellular and fixed
connections and public phones, the rates of increase having been 261 percent, 67
percent, and 125 percent respectively. Quality of service does not seem to have suffered
unduly, unlike the systems in Sao Paolo and Rio de Janeiro where quality of service
declined notably as a result of the increase in the number of new connections.
The privatization of two of the distribution entities that were sold when CEEE was
restructured was also successful, generating significant revenues for the state,
happening as it did fortunately before the crisis greatly decreased the dollar value of
assets in Brazil, and reduced access to the international capital market. Although there



72                              Annex E
Mission's Aide Memoire
has been some move to increase the number of connections, the numbers are not large
in comparison with the increase in connections in telecommunications. Quality of
service and productivity have also improved marginally, although this may have
suffered recently as a result of the national blackouts. In terms of regulatory and other
issues, the companies seem concerned with what they regard as 'unfair' competition
with the rural cooperatives which have been expanding into urban areas. CEEE has also
suffered because of the fact that it still maintains excess liabilities (the distribution
companies were sold largely free of debt), and the previous government took some of
the capital it had otherwise promised to reduce these liabilities, and used it for other
purposes. The company is now suffering financially as a result.
The failed attempt to partially privatize CORSAN was the least successful of the reform
efforts of the government. Despite extensive discussions and a review of possible
reform options, the government's final decision to sell 49 percent of the government's
stake was shelved as the election approached. Consequently, there are currently no
plans to significantly reform CORSAN, and hence it is likely to remain inefficient and
starved of funds with which to invest in sewerage. These difficulties are likely to be
exacerbated by possible moves of certain municipalities to opt out of CORSAN's
service provision.
The former Government's privatization strategy seems to have been predominantly
oriented towards maximizing the sales value of the companies sold. In maximizing sale
value, the governments actions were very successful, in part because the sales were
undertaken prior to the devaluation of the Real and the full impact of the Asian crisis.
Indeed, the privatization of the distributors, as measured relative to the minimum
reserve price and size of the companies, were one of the most successful in the country.
Road Concessions: DAER successfully awarded 9 "concession poles" to the private
sector in its innovative road concession program. Concessionaires will invest
approximately Rs$2.2 billion for the rehabilitation and maintenance of about 2,500 km.
of State roads (approximately 30 percent of its paved network) over the 15 year term
concession contract term. However, there are two concessions that have been awarded,
but not implemented because of unanticipated events. If these concessions do not
proceed, the State will still have fiscal savings of up to Rs$1.7 billion for 20 percent of
its paved network over the term of the concession contract. The concession program
should also provide broader benefits to the State's economic development through
improved road conditions and lower vehicle operating costs (less wear and tear on autos
and trucks). The concession projects appear to be sustainable in the future, although
conflicts have already arisen between the State Government and concessionaires
regarding tariff adjustments and the interpretation of the financial-economic
equilibrium clause in the concession contract. How these conflicts are managed will
depend on another potential problem between the authority of AGERGS to set tariffs
and the tariff adjustment and dispute mechanisms provided in the concession contract.
The concession contract gives DAER a major role in these activities. The primary
lesson learned is the need to develop more detailed, unambiguous, and transparent
concession contracts that provide better definitions of critical clauses, such as the



73                               Annex E
Mission's Aide Memoire
financial-economic equilibrium and that are more consistent with the law that
established AGERGS.
Port Concessions: The Superintendencia do Porto do Rio Grande (SUPRG)
successfully awarded concessions to most of its remaining publicly operated terminals
and facilities by the end of 1997. It entered into concession agreements39 for the
Petroleum and Container Piers and the Wheat and Soy Terminal which comprise over
76 percent of the port cargo movements. SUPRG was not able to find sufficient interest
in the Refrigeration, Liquid Bulk and Storage Warehouse which remain under public
operation. The latter facilities only provide a small amount of the ports total cargo
movements. With the completion of the above concessions, the port is over 90 percent
operated by\private parties with almost 100 percent of its cargo movements provided by
private operators.  In the aftermath of privatization, the National Association of
Industries considered Porto Rio Grande (PRG) as one the three best performers of the
13 largest Brazilian ports. Private operations will keep Porto Rio Grande (PRG)
competitive with other large regional ports (Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Santos and
Paranagua). Private operators can keep the port competitive through better use of port
resources, management of the flexible work rules created under the 1993 port reform
law, and access to capital for investment in port facilities, as contemplated in the leasing
contracts. The ability of the private operators to invest in new facilities will allow PRG
to continue to expand its facilities to accommodate the increasing growth in general
cargo and containers. The PRG experienced an average annual growth rate of 7 percent
per year in general merchandise and over 26 percent growth rate in containers between
1995 and 1998, the years when the major terminal facilities were transferred to private
operators.
Regulatory Agency: As part of the privatization process, the Government established
a regulatory agency AGERGS, whose council is a 'representative' one where four
members were appointed by the Government (although one of the nominations of which
was rejected by the Legislative Assembly during the nomination process), two members
were nominated by consumer groups, and one by the concessionaires. The process of
establishment of the agency was a gradual one because many of its powers were to be
delegated to it by other authorities, such as the Federal regulatory authorities. The
agency has started to monitor the quality of infrastructure services, resolve disputes and
conduct other regulatory activities regarding the services over which it has
responsibility. Its activities are, however, presently overshadowed by a larger political
dispute about the question of whether fixed terms are appropriate for commissioners of
a regulatory commission, or whether their mandate should be determined by political
decisions. The politicization of the debate seems to have been caused in part by the
political background of a number of the appointed commissioners. The consequence of
the political debate about the regulatory agency is a court case where the current
Government is seeking to annul the appointment of the government appointed
39    The concession agreements are called "Rental Contracts", that have an initial term of 15 years
renewable for another 15 years. They are long term leases that allow the contractor to expand the facilities
based on its business growth.



74                                   Annex E
Mission's Aide Memoire
commissioners and appoint its own.
Fiscal Situation: The Reform Letter presented by the State describing its reform
program specified five fiscal targets, as shown on Table 2. In 1997, the state did not
meet three of these targets: growth in revenues, reductions in personnel expenditures
and declines in debt:revenue ratio. By 1998, the targets with regard to reductions in
personnel expenditures and declines in the debt:revenues ratio had not yet been met.
However, the growth in net current revenues surpassed the corresponding target by 7
percent, mainly due to a growth in transfers and a rebound in ICMS during the second
semester. As a result of a comprehensive debt agreement with the National
Government, the stock of bonds was reduced significantly, although the total stock of
debt has increased with respect to 1996 despite the proceeds from the privatizations and
a Rs$1.645 billion debt forgiveness by the National Government. The increase in debt
has been mainly the result of three factors: a) excessive primary deficits (i.e., 20.3
percent and 23.2 percent of net current revenues in 1997 and 1998 respectively); b) an
increase in borrowing from PROES to assist in the restructuring of the state financial
institutions; and c) the due- interest burden on the high levels of accumulated debt.
Personnel expenditures as a proportion of net current revenues have decreased from 85
percent to 81 percent, but mainly as a result in increase in revenues due to transfers. The
remaining two targets -- amount of investment financed by debt and the type of
investment spending -- were both met in 1997 and 1998.
Table 2
Summary of Reform Letter Targets
Indicators                                Target         12/31/97         12/31/98
Growth in Net Current Revenues              4%             -1%              11%
Personnel as % of Net Current Revenues    75%              85%              81%
Debt/Revenue Ratio (1)                     1:1   (2)       2.39             2.54
Amount of Investment Financed from Debt  225                56               101
Investment Spending
Highways                                           Rs$281 million    Rs$550 million
Education                                           Rs$53 million    Rs$74 million
Health and Sanitation                              Rs$ 11 I million  Rs$118 million
Municipal Investments                               Rs$46 million    Rs$23 million
Others                                              Loan to GM    Loan to Ford and GM
(Rs$253.2 million)  (Rs$306.7 million)
(1) It includes Rs$2,379 million for PROES. The debt / revenue ratio decreases to 2.28 if net of Caixa Stadual
portfolio.
(2) The target is to be achieved by the year 2008
Mission Agreements: The following agreements were reached with the Government
during the mission.
Disbursement and Auditing: The loan was designed to help finance expenditures
related to the Government's reform project. The costs of the project comprised
expenditures in four areas: a) goods, works, consultant services and training; b)



75                               Annex E
Mission's Aide Memoire
severance payments; c) grants; and d) incremental recurrent cost of reforms on a
declining basis. The loan disbursed chiefly against expenditures on severance payments
and grants during 1997 and 1998. These project expenditures still need to be audited.
The bidding documents for the audit have already been finalized and the Government is
ready to invite bids from five auditing firms. The Government expects to complete the
audits with regards to 1997 and 1998 expenditures by the contractual deadline date for
the 1998 expenditures (June 30, 1999).
ICR Timetable: The Government and the mission have agreed on the following
timetable (Table 3) with regard to the preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report.
Table 3
Agreed Timetable for ICR
Action                       Agreed Date
Borrower's contribution sent to the Bank       April 30, 1999
ICR Draft sent to Borrower                      May 7, 1999
Borrower's comments on ICR draft sent to the Bank  May 14, 1999
Expected date of final report                  May 30, 1999
Mauricio Carrizosa
Task Manager
The World Bank



76                               Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
Annex F: Borrower's Contribution40
PROJETO DE REFORMA DO ESTADO
EMPRESTIMO BIRD N 0 4139 - BR
RELATORIO DE CONCLUSAO DA IMPLEMENTAAO
RELATORIO SINTETICO
AvaliaVao Da Implementafio Do Projeto
1.    Objetivos Do Projeto
1.1   Objetivo Geral:  De acordo com o Anexo 2 do contrato de emprestimo -
Descri,cao do Projeto: "O objetivo do Projeto 6 dar suporte a consecucao dos objetivos do
Programa [ de Reforma do Estado ] no que se refere ao aumento da eficiencia do
Tomador na prestacao de servicos puiblicos e melhoria de suas condi,oes financeiras."
1.2   Objetivos Especificos:  Os objetivos especificos do Projeto de Reforma do
Estado estao expressos nos Anexos 6 e 7 do contrato de emprestimo.
2.    Reafizasao Dos Objetivos Do Projeto
A maioria dos objetivos especificos do Projeto de Reforma do Estado, constantes do
empr6stimo com o Banco Mundial, foram realizados, especialmente, os relativos aos itens
b, c, d, e, e f do anexo 6 e os itens b, c e d do anexo 7. Salientamos que o Governo
anterior deixou de cumprir a parte mais relevante que havia se proposto, explicitado no
item a do anexo 6.
A politica de despesas publicas nao se pautou na busca do equilibrio fiscal, enquanto a
proposta de melhoria na administracao fazendaria foi severamente prejudicada pela
pratica exagerada da renuincia fiscal e o incentivo a ampliacao da guerra fiscal entre as
unidades da Federacao, mediante a transferencia de recursos puiblicos para grandes grupos
econ6micos mundiais (GM  e Ford). A  seguir, explicitamos os resultados da
implementacao dos objetivos especificos:
a)    Politicas do Tomador referentes a despesas pzublicas, etc.: Para cumprimento
desse objetivo especifico, o Estado assumiu perante o Banco Mundial, atrav6s de carta de
intencoes datada de 12 de dezembro de 1.996, o compromisso de buscar o equilibrio
fiscal e financeiro do setor puiblico com a,coes, como: Ajuste fiscal, Reforma patrimonial,
Modemizacao e Racionaliza9ao da Administracao Publica e Investimentos do Estado no
40    The Borrower has prepared a comprehensive report discussing its views on the project's
performance. For reasons of space, only the Executive Summary is included as part of the ICR. A copy of
the complete report is in the Project's files and can be made available upon request.



77                              Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
bienio 97/98. A administra9ao anterior nao logrou exito na implementa,cao de suas
politicas de ajuste, conforme exposto a seguir:
a.1)  Politica de despesas publicas:  0 PDV foi realizado sem  criterios
objetivos quanto a necessidade, para a Administra,ao Puiblica, do funcionario
demissionario, nem tampouco quanto aos custos decorrentes. Como consequencia,
houve uma desqualifica,ao da presta,ao dos servi,os puiblicos, em razao da saida
desses servidores treinados e pela ausencia de pessoal em areas prioritarias, como
seguran,a puiblica, saiude e educa,ao.
a.2)  Melhoria na Administra9do Fazendaria:  0 prop6sito de busca do
equilibrio fiscal, via incremento da arrecada,ao estadual, nao foi atendido, ficando
reduzido ao Programa de Modemiza,ao e Racionalizacao  do Aparelho
Arrecadador, incipientemente implementado.
b)    Aliena,do de 35 % das a,ces ordinarias da CRT: A aliena,ao de 35 % das a,6es
da CRT, ocorreu em dezembro de 1.996, a um " investidor estrategico "- um cons6rcio
liderado pela Telefonica de Espanha, por Rs$ 681 milhoes. Convem salientar que, ap6s
essa venda, por decisao do Govemo da epoca, a administra,ao da empresa passou para o
controle do novo s6cio, mesmo possuindo esse a minoria do capital votante. Ainda, por
iniciativa do Governo anterior, sem fazer parte dos objetivos contratados com o BIRD, foi
alienada a parcela restante da participa,co do Estado no capital da empresa, 50,12 % do
controle acionario por Rs$ 1.176 milhoes; sendo vencedora a mesma empresa que havia
adquirido o primeiro lote de a,coes.
c)    Concessoes de Terminais de Conteineres e do Terminal de Trigo e Soja: Foram
concedidos, em fins de 1.997, os terminais de conteineres, o terminal de trigo e soja e pier
petroleiro. As demais concess6es do Porto de Rio Grande nao se realizaram. Segundo a
Superintendencia do Porto de Rio Grande, atualmente a grande maioria das opera,ces
esta sendo realizada por 6 operadoras, de um total de 60, aproximadamente.
d)    Concessoes de Sete P6los Rodoviarios: A sugestao inicial do Banco Mundial (
conforme comentado em reuniao de fechamento da ajuda mem6ria da uiltima missao ) era
colocar em operacao um p6lo piloto, para, a partir desse referencial, estabelecer a
sequncia de novas concess6es a iniciativa privada. Essa proposta foi totalmente
cumprida. Cabe revelar que foram concebidos nove p6los, equivalentes a 30 % da rede
pavimentada. Desses, sete estao em operacao, por concessionarias privadas e os terminais
de Pelotas e Santa Maria estAo fora de opera,ao.
e)    Estudos sobre o Setor de Agua e Saneamento: 0 estudo sobre o setor de agua e
saneamento foi entregue, ao governo, em abril de 1.998, dando-se como cumprido esse
prop6sito.
f)    Cria,do de um 6rgdo regulador dos servi,os pzublicos: Atraves da Lei Estadual
10.931, de 09 de janeiro de 1.997, criou-se a Agergs - Agencia Estadual de Regula,ao de
Servi,os Puiblicos Delegados do RS.



78                              Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
g)    Privatizaqdo da CEEE. 0 processo de privatiza,ao da Cia Estadual de Energia
Eletrica - CEEE, foi precedido de um estudo que resultou na proposta de transforma9ao
da empresa em cinco unidades, sendo uma de transmissao, tres de distribui9,co e um
complexo termoeletrico ( Candiota). 0 objetivo proposto ao Banco de alienar o controle
acionario de duas distribuidoras foi integralmente realizado, tendo sido feito em duas
oportunidades:
Data    Distribuidora Alienada  Valor (Rs$ milh6es)    Empresa Atual
Out/97      Cia. Distribuidora       895,00        RGE - Rio Grande
Nordeste                              Distribuidora
Dez/98    Cia. Distribuidora entro  1635,00             AES Sul
Oeste
A CEEE ficou reduzida a uma unidade de transmissao, A distribuidora nao vendida e As
usinas de gera,Ao de energia hidreletrica.
3.    Fatores Que Afetaram A Implementa,Ao Do Projeto
Pr6ximo do momento de iniciar os estudos e modelagens necessarios para as
privatiza,ces e concessoes, houve aumentos significativos nas tarifas, donde se destaca
telecomunica,6es. Somando-se a isso, o alinhamento politico do Governo do Estado com
o Governo Federal serviu como fiador para implementa,cao do projeto de reforma do
Estado, financiado pelo BIRD. 0 Governo Federal elaborou varios dispositivos legais,
com repercussao direta nas finan,as estaduais. 0 Programa Nacional de Desestatizacao
serviu como paliativo para o duplo deficit nacional, o deficit fiscal e o do Balan,o de
Paganento. No estado, a adesAo ao programa foi a verdadeira ancora para o
financiamento do hiato entre os fluxos fiscais de receita e despesa.
Outro fator preponderante para implementa,co do projeto foram  os investimentos
puiblicos realizados na vespera das privatiza,6es em empresas ou areas objeto de
concessao, tornado-as muito mais atrativas aos futuros controladores. Nessa situacao
enquadram-se os investimentos feitos na CRT antes de sua privatiza,cao e em algumas
rodovias antes de sua concessao. Um dos fatores que contribuiram para que o projeto
tivesse andamento acelerado foi o fato de que a maioria da Assembleia Legislativa fazia
parte do Governo de coalizao instalado anteriormente.
4.    Sustentabilidade Do Projeto
A sustentabilidade do Projeto de Reforma do Estado, executado pelo Governo
anterior, esta alicer,ado na legisla,ao reguladora aprovada pelo Congresso Nacional
e Assembleias Legislativas, estabelecendo regras para manuten,io e amplia,ao dos
servi,cos concedidos, padroes de atendimento e remunera,ao minima dos capitais
investidos.
0 Estado criou a Agencia Estadual de Regula,co dos Servi,os Puiblicos Delegados -



79                              Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
Agergs, com o objetivo de:
*  Assegurar a prestacao de servicos adequados, assim  entendidos aqueles que
satisfacam as condigces de regularidade, continuidade, eficiencia, seguranca,
atualidade, generalidade, cortesia na sua prestacao e modicidade nas suas tarifas;
*  garantir a harmonia  entre  os interesses dos usuarios, concessionarios,
permissionarios e autorizatarios de servicos publicos;
*  zelar pelo equilibrio econ8mico-financeiro dos servicos pudblicos delegados.
Passamos a analisar, a seguir, a sustentabilidade do projeto em cada um dos setores
privatizados ou concedidos, alem do pr6prio Setor puiblico:
a)    Finanqas Publicas: Analisando-se o desempenho recente e a estrutura atual das
contas publicas do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, ficam evidentes alguns aspectos do
processo de debilitamento das financas estaduais, assim resumidos: (a) a politica de
financiamento do Setor Puiblico, implementada nos ultimos anos, voltada para a obtencao
de recursos via alienacAo de patrim8nio, deixou de lado medidas capazes de estabelecer
as condicoes estruturais de sustentacao do gasto puiblico no longo prazo; (b) a sistematica
necessidade de utilizacao desses recursos na estrutura de gastos primarios do Estado
compromete as execucoes futuras; (c) o fraco desempenho das Receitas Pr6prias no
periodo recente, em especial a defasagem na arrecadacao do ICMS, em relacao aos
demais Estados e a evolucao da pr6pria economia gauicha; (d) a defasagem nas
transferancias de receitas da Uniao decorrentes, principalmente, da criacao do Fundo de
Estabilizacao Fiscal; (e) o crescimento das despesas deu-se em patamares superiores A
taxa de crescimento das Receitas Correntes, notadamente os altos valores realizados na
conta de manutencAo, conforme destaque feito adiante; (f) o aurnento significativo do
comprometimento fixo das Receitas com o pagamento efetivo do Servico da Divida
Puiblica.
Os recursos oriundos das privatizac6es e concessoes ocorridas nao diminuiram o estoque
da divida, nao constituiram Fundo de Previdencia do Servidor, nem tampouco
solucionaram o problema dos "deficits" primario e operacional, conforme pode ser
observado na tabela abaixo:
Evolu4ao do Resultado Fiscal
(Rs$ milhao)
Descricio                   1.995         1.996         1.997        1.998
Resultado Primario          (405)        (618 )        (767)        (1.032)
Resultado Operacional       ( 205 )      ( 782 )      (1.243)       (1.127)
Total arrecadado com as privatizac6es:  Rs$ 5 bilhoes
Fonte: Plano Plurianual 2000-2003
Apesar da proposta de melhor controle dos gastos puiblicos, as despesas com a
manutencao da maquina puiblica estadual atingiram 17 % da Receita Corrente Liquida,
em 1.998, enquanto que, em 1.995, representavam 13 %.
Com relacao ao endividamento do Setor Publico Estadual, observa-se que , de um



80                               Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
montante de Rs$ 4,4 bilhoes, em dezembro de 1.994, o estoque da divida passou para Rs$
13,4 bilhoes, em dezembro de 1.998., ou seja mais de 200 %; enquanto que o IGP-DI, do
mesmo periodo foi de 37 %. Isso representa um crescimento real de mais de 100 % da
divida pAblica.
Evolucao da Divida Publica Estadual (exceto estatais)
(Rs$ milhao)
Descricao                   1.994      1.995     1.996      1.997      1.998
Divida Fundada Interna     4.154      6.834      8.715      10.761     13.008
Dfvida Fundada Externa      245        167        158        252        408
Divida Total               4.399      7.001      8.873      11.013     13.416
Fonte: Plano Plurianual 2000-2003
b) Area de TelecomunicaqJes: Na area de telecomunica96es a Agencia Nacional de
Telecomunicag6es - Anatel, reguladora desses servigos, estabeleceu indicadores de
universalizagao e qualidade dos servigos bastante ousados para referenciais anteriores ao
aumento tarifario. No entanto, com as tarifas atuais, a CRT passou a apresentar uma
capacidade de investir superior as exigidas pela agencia, resultado dos aumentos tarifarios
verificados antes da sua privatiza9ao, conforme quadro. No tocante ao capital social da
empresa, ap6s a sua privatizagao, nao houve mais aportes, apenas a incorporagao de
reservas, conforme tabela.
Somente em 2.003 sera aberto o mercado para outros concorrentes. Conseqiuentemente,
no ambito da telefonia fixa, foi trocado um monop6lio estatal por um monop6lio privado,
com todas as conseqiitncias que se espera face ao poder de exploravao do mercado que
esses novos proprietdrios da CRT venham desempenhar.
Com relacao A telefonia celular, em margo desse ano, foi iniciada a comercializagao dos
terminais da Banda B, que serao operados pela Telet.
Dados de UniversalizaqAo, Qualidade e Tarifirios da CRT
Terminais\ano         1.995          1.996           1.997           1.998
Terminais fixos      777.056        781.799         1.031.493       1.402.255
Terminais celulares   79.249        168.479         350.756         542.695
Fonte: DADE/SCP - RS
Conta mensal media telefonia bisica
(USs$ 1,00)
DescriVAo\Ano        1.994           1.995               1.996
(10 semestre)
Conta mensal         55,48            61,4               84,21
Fonte: DADE/SCP - RS



81                              Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
Capital Social da CRT
Capital da CRT        11.06.96            10.06.97             08.12.98
(em Rs$)           662.963.026,32      706.994.378,43       732.176.239,79
Fonte: Junta Comercial do RS
c)    Concessdo de Terminais do Porto de Rio Grande: A concessao dos terminais de
conteineres e do terminal de trigo e soja representou a transferencia de um monop6lio
piiblico para um monop6lio privado. 0 Porto de Rio Grande e o mais importante do
Estado e seu movimento garante a sua sustentabilidade. 0 quadro, a seguir, demonstra o
movimento realizado nos iltimos exercicios:
A preocupa,co do atual Governo refere-se as tarifas, pelo fato de que os operadores e os
concessionarios de terminais, por monopolizarem as opera,ces, possam praticar tarifas
exorbitantes.
d)    Concessdo de P6los Rodoviarios: No momento, a associa,ao de concessionarias
esta pleiteando um reajuste contratual de 18,6 %, onde alega a necessidade de
cumprimento de clausula contratual. No entanto, quatorze pracas de pedagio de tres p6los
- Metropolitano, Caxias do sul e Lajeado, estao com diminui,ao de tarifas, 20 % para
veiculos de passeio e 28 % para veiculos comerciais, determinada pelo Govemo do
Estado ap6s auditoria realizada pela Contadoria e Auditoria Geral do Estado, em razao da
constatacao de irregularidades contratuais.
Em razao disso, o atual Govemo do Estado procedeu a uma alteracao unilateral de
contrato com tres p6los, estando outros quatro p6los sendo alvo de estudos identicos.
Dessa forma, a sustentabilidade desse projeto esta vinculada a adapta,co das atuais
operadoras a pratica de tarifas m6dicas sob a otica do usuario e, que ao mesmo tempo
proporcionem o equilibrio econ6mico-financeiro das concessionarias.
e)    Setor de Agua e Saneamento: A disposicao do Governo e manter a Corsan sob o
controle Estatal. Os servi,os prestados pela empresa sao acoes fundamentais na area de
sauide preventiva. A Associacao Brasileira de Engenharia Sanitaria e Ambiental - Abes,
afirna que para cada um real investido em saneamento basico no Brasil, tres deixam de
ser gastos em baixas hospitalares.
0 segmento de esgotamentamento sanitario apresenta altos investimentos e baixas tarifas,
caracterizando-se como uma area de servicos subsidiados. 0 governo acredita que a
soluc ao desses problemas encontra ressonancia em uma politica de subsidios cruzados de
agua e esgoto complementarmente a uma pratica tributaria e de outorga de usos da agua.
f)    Criaqdo da Agergs: Em dezembro passado foi sancionada uma lei estadual,
definindo mandato de quatro anos para os conselheiros da Agergs, o que impede o
Govemo de indicar os pr6prios representantes. Somente ao final do segundo ano de
mandato do Governo estadual, poderao ser indicados os seus legitimos representantes.
Esta  sob  apreciacao  do  Supremo  Tribunal  Federal  uma  acao  direta  de
inconstitucionalidade da lei estadual, impetrada pelo Governo Estadual. Essa acao visa



82                               Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
garantir ao Govemo a imediata indicacao dos seus representantes.
g)    Privatizaqdo da CEEE: A CEEE resultante do processo da privatiza,co das duas
companhias distribuidoras, ficou com todo o 6nus do Programa de Demissoes Voluntarias
- PDV, que incentivou a aposentadoria de 3.640 empregados a um custo de Rs$ 444.650
milhoes, e toda a divida remanescente dos investimentos realizados pela CEEE antes das
privatiza6oes.
Numeros de Funcionarios e Custos do PDV
Orgao                              N0 Funcionarios       Custos(R$ mil)
Adm. Direta                                     9.791                75.511
Autarquias e Fundacoes Puiblicas                2.313                43.600
Banrisul                                        1.079                34.895
CRT                                             1.450                77.593
Ceee                                            3.924               456.537
CORSAN                                          1.643                12.679
Total                                          20.200               700.815
Fonte: Secretaria da Administracao e Recursos Humanos e DADE-SCP
A empresa herdou, tamb6m, uma pratica de baixa eficiencia em rela,co a cobran,a de
haveres, al6m de nao obter autoriza,cao, junto a Anatel, de reajuste tarifario, o qual ja foi
concedido as outras duas distribuidoras privatizadas.
Para sua consolida,cao, a CEEE devera ter aprovado, pela Anel, o reajuste de suas tarifas
de forma equivalente aos montantes concedidos as distribuidoras privatizadas.
Endividamento da CEEE - em R$ mil
Divida                            1.995                       1.998
(30/11/98)
Interna                                    794.825                     822.179
Externa                                    679.631                     161.670
Total                                    1.474.456                     983.849
Fonte: CEEE Superintendencia financeira
5.    Desempenho Do Banco
O Banco Mundial realizou os desembolsos a conta do Tesouro Estadual de acordo com as
clausulas contratuais. As visitas de acompanhamento realizaram-se dentro do previsto e
de acordo com as necessidades de acompanhamento da implementacao do Projeto.
6.    Desempenho Do Estado
O que se observa no Brasil e, com maior enfase aqui no Rio Grande do Sul, 6 a
velocidade com que os processos de privatiza,oes e concessoes ocorreram. 0 pr6prio
Banco Mundial, como ja mencionado, recomendou maior cautela nos processos de
concessao de p6los rodoviarios, no entanto, o Govemo anterior, no afa de se antecipar ao
Govemo Federal, mostrando-se mais rapido, ao inv6s de seguir a orientacao do Banco, de



83                              Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
construir urn p6lo piloto, ja de imediato, procedeu nas concessoes dos nove p6los.
No Rio Grande do Sul, os objetivos de eficacia sobrepuseram-se aos de efetividade, o que
gerou os problemas ja mencionados e o comprometimento das finan,as publicas para os
pr6ximos anos. Ha de se envidar um esfor,o enorme de ajustarnento das contas para que
se possa cumprir os objetivos maiores do Governo.
7.    0  Desenvolvimento  Futuro  E  Sustentabilidade: Diretrizes Da Nova
Administrasao
0 Governo que se estabeleceu no Estado do Rio Grande do Sul parte da premissa que o
Estado deve ter transparencia suficiente em suas a,oes para que possa haver o controle
efetivo da sociedade. Esse Govemo, para garantir-se da sustentabilidade de suas a,ces,
utiliza-se dos principios de equilibrio nas contas piiblicas - comprometer-se com gastos
ate o limite de seus recursos, fim dos subsidios aos grande empresarios e combate A
sonega,ao; probidade administrativa - estabelecer mecanismos de controle para
reprimir todo e qualquer ato passivel de questionamento legal ou moral; austeridade -
gastar de forma m6dica, de acordo com as suas possibilidades; participasao popular -
as decis6es de alocacao de recursos acontecem sob a iniciativa do controle popular e se
dAo atraves do Or,amento Participativo.
Considerando-se que, nesse ano de 1.999, R$ 850 milhoes estavam previstos como
receitas de alienacao de bens, diga-se privatizacoes e concess6es, a Administra,cao
reavaliou o conjunto de despesas fixadas e ira realizar o que foi entendido como
prioritario pelo Conselho de Govemo.
7.1.  Desenvolvimento De Verdade
7.1.1. Contexto Geral: As dificuldades atualmente enfrentadas pelos setores produtivos
existentes no Estado, antes de representarem o esgotamento definitivo desses setores
refletem, principalmente, uma crise decorrente da politica econ6mica federal. Nao se
pode desconsiderar a estrutura produtiva do Rio Grande do Sul apostando exclusivamente
num possivel desenvolvimento vindo de fora do Estado, pois e possivel incentivar a
retomada do crescimento da economia gauicha a partir dos setores ja instalados e do
fortalecimento das cadeias produtivas existentes.
7.1.2. A Estrategia de AVao: 0 Estado proposto pela nova Administra,ao desenvolverA
acoes de inducao e regulacao das atividades econ6micas prioritarias, com o objetivo de
implementar uma estrategia de desenvolvimento sustentavel que incentive o crescimento
do emprego e da renda, e a sua justa distribuicao ao conjunto da sociedade.
A estrategia geral de atuacao do nosso Estado, no campo do desenvolvimento, sera
pautada pela priorizacAo nas ac6es de apoio As cadeias produtivas da economia gauicha,
no fortalecimento dos micro, pequenos e medios empreendimentos economicos e no
estimulo As atividades produtivas nas regioes menos desenvolvidas. Paralelamente
buscaremos  a  partir  das  potencialidades  econ6micas  locais,  fomentar  um
desenvolvimento no qual as atividades nao s6 estejam integradas a dinamica da regiao,
mas tambem que permitam integrar A sociedade os cidadaos e as localidades hoje



84                             Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
excluidas do desenvolvimento. Ou seja, um desenvolvimento integrado-integrador.
O Sistema Financeiro Puiblico Estadual deve multiplicar suas funq6es de fomento as
atividades economicas com vistas a geracao de emprego e renda para os trabalhadores,
produtores rurais e empreendedores urbanos. Em especial para que o Estado possa, nao s6
contribuir para a instala,cao e o crescimento de grandes empreendimentos, como tambem
viabilizar a instalacao de micro, pequenos e medios empreendedores.
7.2.  Afirmar Direitos E Garantir A InclusAo Social
As politicas sociais no Brasil, presididas por uma no,ao de Estado-Minimo, v8m sofrendo
um reves, que pode ser resumido nos seguintes fatores: (a) tentativa de se eliminar
importantes direitos sociais consignados na Constituicao Brasileira de 1988, no que
inclusive ja ha 8xito parcial atraves das reformas previdenciaria e administrativa; (b)
introdu,ao de mecanismos privatizantes para a condu,ao das politicas sociais,; (c)
progressiva quebra do principio de universalidade da acao estatal nas areas sociais, que
cede lugar a focalizacao e a selecao de "clientelas"; e (d)  desfinanciamento e
desinvestimento em areas essenciais, em decorrencia da drastica reducao dos or,amentos
das areas sociais.
O Rio Grande do Sul, como foi visto no diagn6stico explicitado anteriormente, nao
escapou dessa dinarmica. 0 desemprego elevado e ascendente, e o nivel reduzido de
renda, determinam a emergencia de um novo e complexo universo de demandas sociais
ao Poder Puiblico. Assim, o Estado passa a ser um instrumento fundamental capaz de
assegurar meios reais de sobreviv8ncia para as pessoas e as familias, mediante o
provisionamento de condic6es minimas de subsist8ncia.
7.3.  Gestao Democratica Do Estado - Participa,ao Popular
A participacao popular constitui o principio norteador da mudanca que perpassa toda a
concep9ao da nova Administra,ao sobre Estado e Sociedade Trata-se de um movimento
que pretende conferir niveis crescentes de participacao social, para a criacao de uma nova
ordem democratica comprometida com a universalizacao dos direitos de cidadania.
Pretende reverter a tend8ncia hist6rica de enfraquecimento da sociedade civil frente ao
Estado, pela via fecunda do fortalecimento das formas democraticas de relacao entre essas
duas esferas.
O Orcamento Participativo e um processo de democracia direta voluntaria, no qual a
populacao pode discutir, decidir e controlar o orcamento publico, a gestao do Estado e as
politicas de desenvolvimento. A iniciativa do Governo esta alicer,ada em quatro
principios basicos: discussao da totalidade do orcamento, universalidade, auto-
regulamenta,Ao e controle social.
O direcionamento dos recursos do Estado para o atendimento das reais necessidades da
maioria da populacao - inversao de prioridades - e a recuperacao da qualidade dos
servicos puiblicos passam pela construcao de um Estado democratico, no qual a
participacao popular e dos servidores publicos, juntamente com o Governo, sao os
elementos construtores do aumento da efici8ncia e da eficacia das ag6es puiblicas.



85                              Annex F:
Borrower's Contribution
8.    As LiV6es Do Projeto
A execucao do Projeto de Reforma do Estado foi desenvolvida pelo Governo do Estado
da administracao anterior, com estreita colaboracao e acompanhamento do Banco
Mundial, em razao de ser um projeto pioneiro destinado a patrocinar a reforma
patrimonial e implementar o ajuste fiscal na busca do equilibrio das contas puiblicas do
Estado do Rio Grande do Sul.
Ao longo da execucao do projeto foram realizadas emendas ao objeto original, adaptando
as propostas as acoes efetivamente implementadas pelo Estado, habilitando o tomador ao
saque dos recursos disponibilizados pelo Banco.
Ao final da sua execuJco constata-se que o projeto limitou-se a alienacao total da CRT,
parcial da CEEE, a concessao de p6los rodoviarios e terminais portuarios e, nao
solucionou o seu objetivo central que era a busca do equilibrio das finan,as puiblicas
estaduais. A implementa9ao do Plano de Demissoes Voluntarias agravou a prestacao dos
servi,os puiblicos essenciais, alem de nao impactar positivamente sobre o custo de pessoal
do Estado.
A conducao do processo deixou licoes que permanecem para avaliacao, sendo perceptivel
que, nas privatiza,oes ocorridas, o interesse privado prevaleceu sobre o interesse piublico
e a funcao social a ser executada pelo Estado ficou submissa ao atendimento do interesse
econ6mico dos grupos habilitados a assumir a concessao dos servi,os ofertados.
Deve ser ressaltada, ainda, a pouca transparencia com que foram realizadas todas as acoes
implementadas e a ausencia de consulta a opiniao publica para manifestar-se sobre a
aliena,ao do patrimonio puiblico.
Finalmente, cabe destacar ac6es que foram implementadas e cujo resultado foi negativo
em rela,ao aos objetivos tra,ados, como:
a) A renuincia de gestao da CRT feita pelo Govemo anterior a favor do cons6rcio que
adquiriu 35 % das suas a,oes ordinarias diante do fato de que o Estado ainda
mantinha o controle acionario da empresa;
b) alienacao de mais 50,12 % do capital votante da empresa, nao previsto nos
objetivos do Projeto, realizada enquanto a CRT estava sob a gestao do cons6rcio
liderado pela Telefonica de Espanha, casual vencedora, tambem desse leilao;
c) a transferencia as duas distribuidoras de energia elktrica apenas dos ativos
rentaveis, sem transferir a parcela de divida correspondente;
d) o Govemo anterior arrecadou RS$ 2,2 bilhoes com  a aliena,co das duas
distribuidoras. No entanto, isso nao oportunizou o saneamento financeiro da
CEEE, resumindo-se a transferencia dos ativos rentaveis e mercado as novas
empresas; al&m de pernanecer com a empresa estatal resultante todo o encargo
decorrente do quadro de pessoal aposentado;
e) o Programa de Demissoes Voluntarias nao correspondeu a real necessidade de
austeridade nos gastos puiblicos. Houve uma evasao de funcionArios altarnente
capacitados e, hoje a administracao estadual carece de seus servicos.
f) Na concessao dos p6los rodoviarios, na forma apressada com que foram
implantadas demonstraram a real necessidade de estabelecer contratos de
concessao mais detalhados, sem ambiguidades e transparentes, que suprissem de
melhores definicoes a respeito das clausulas criticas, como as que se referem ao
equilibrio econ6mico-financeiro e a qualidade da rodovia.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28281
- 27                                                                                        3~R,852'557'0                                                           27:                         BRAZIL
RIO GRANDE DO SUL
~O " VARIA ,.,;FIJNDOr; -'"  \ S A N T A                                                               STATE REFORM LOAN
ARGENTINA                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~CATARINA
A~ ~ ~~~~,fr R G| EF b N T4         I N A
ASA G  E N  T I N A   - ,,5 - ) MNTA                                                                                                L I  &   rexlm    g:r    .srh  TRANSMISSION LINESL
- 28.                                                                                                                          28' -s                    230r kV c ' 6+   V.l Z  i;  X   D  eCRUtC2
iSi  16tB,  XdN                                                t                                 ;  00 00 00 0pSM.                                   130 kV
'                                                                                                                                           POWER PI ANTO
Ii     kCARA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          p ~~~~~HYDROELECTRIC
AA  C- Alt.                                                                                                         SUASRAT ONS
AU Roin U~' G  U A Y    .    '     0MAIN ROADS
L   R    *A:m    b    ^e    aWs   e   a  r e V= & t g 0 7                                ROAD POLES
-29'                                                                                                           B-t                                                                         1 PORTS
p PI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATE CAPITAL
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
S. Fropico6-                                "KEAE
Thboundanes<obn denom6rs(msandamolberixt                                                                                                       -   ATE BOUND.ARIES
00910    09y0    TAOAgUARA                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'A A8         A 7 'TJr union  FE08 Et                                                    5g1092                          11SA::041;0;E                                                     UUUYg'..   
20  U; AN( 5 9T54' Es                                                                                                        6     TOAEGT
'k~~~~~   from  ~ ~ ~ ~~~   NS O        f-iRF                                        O.,~                                                                     GIN
I                                          HEROIN                                                                                 \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VENEZUELA  V/    UNIAME
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t.                                                        ATLANT!C                               .10FLOW_  AMAZONAS  PARA        ' CAR~OT
32'OC EAN
URUGUAY(RG05.TD
MATO~~~~~~~AT
%%.  v                                                             PE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C        ESE     RJB
JSOTARATN'  J90 00                                                                                                GROSS8055
N'BOLIVIA       TO        UUAl    /
~~~~~~~~~~~~                                    1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KROMaTERS                                                CIE1WrRN
08' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"  ~~~                              -1IIi ARGENTIN                                                                                                         TAOCE' TANTI
571      51'                                  54'-5OCEAN
SEPTEMBRER 1996



