Report No. PIC4281
Project Name          Brazil-Rio Grande do Sul Loan State Reform (@+)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       BRPA39196
Borrower                         State of Rio Grande do Sul
Implementing Agency              Rio Grande do Sul Planning Secretariat
Date this PID Prepared           March 31, 1997
Appraisal Date                   July 1996
Board Date                       March 4, 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Brazil recently completed the
second year under a stabilization plan that has seen an impressive
reduction in the monthly rate of inflation from about 40 percent at
mid-1994 to around 1 percent currently. The economy has grown at an
annual rate of close to 3.5 percent over the same period, while the
external current account deficit has been limited to about 2.5
percent of GDP. Strong capital inflows permitted a buildup in
international reserves to US$60 billion at end-June 1996, or 13
months of imports of goods and nonfactor services. However, fiscal
policy weakened in 1995. The primary fiscal balance of the public
sector remained in surplus in 1995 and 1996 (0.4 and 0.6 percent of
GDP respectively), but was significantly lower than in 1994 (5.2
percent of GDP). The most important factors behind this
deterioration were an increase in wages and a much higher domestic
interest bill resulting from tight monetary policy and an
accumulation of internal debt by Federal and State governments.
2.      State and local governments have large financing requirements
(operational deficits, refinancing of short-term bonds, and
deficits of state-owned banks) which must be reduced to consolidate
the stabilization program. Some reduction in the deficit of states
is achievable with strong programs in at least three of the four
largest states, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, and Rio Grande so Sul
(RS), with which the World Bank is working on state reform
programs. From a microeconomic perspective, there is concern that
the large volume of resources spent by subnational governments
(about half of total budgetary public expenditures) is not spent
efficiently, with vast overstaffing, poor service delivery, and
inefficient and subsidized state-owned enterprises.
3.      As with other states, weak public administration and state
ownership and monopoly of key commercial enterprises have
contributed to undermining RS's financial and economic performance.
Excessive employment, wages, and borrowing resulted in labor
expenses of 82 percent of revenues, an overall deficit of Rs. $1.7
billion, and a debt stock/revenue ratio of about 200 percent at
end-1995. State ownership of commercial enterprises in key sectors
ultimately undermined investment and services in those sectors.



4.      The components of the Rio Grande do Sul State Reform project
seek to improve the State's fiscal condition and the efficiency and
delivery of public sector and infrastructure services through
privatization of these services. RS's State Reform Program (SRP),
developed with the assistance of the Bank, covers (i) revenue and
expenditure actions to improve the state's primary surplus; and
(ii) privatizations and concessions to improve investment and
service delivery of infrastructure services.
5.      Project Objectives. The Bank loan, one of a series of
proposed State Reform Loans, will support successful implementation
of RS's SRP and finance some of the costs of the reform and high
priority investments during the adjustment period.
6.      Project Description. The project includes the key
reforms/actions of the SRP discussed above and a loan in the amount
of US$125 million equivalent. To achieve its objective, the loan
would disburse following successful implementation of key reforms,
including: (i) an improved fiscal condition; and (ii)
sale/concessions to private investors/operators, including sale of
35 percent of the state's telecommunications company with full
management delegation to private investors; sale of two electricity
distribution companies covering about two thirds of the state's
customers; concessions of 9 road poles covering about 22 percent of
the paved road network; concessions of 6 port facilities in the
Port of Rio Grande and one storage facility in the Port of Pelotas;
and concessions of water production and distribution for some
municipalities.
7.      Project Financing. The direct costs of the SRP include costs
of severance pay for staff departures from public enterprises being
privatized; goods, works, consultant services and training (reform
related equipment and rehabilitation works, high priority
investments in land management and social poverty; high priority
investments in highway rehabilitation; and high priority
investments in school and hospital rehabilitation); and grants and
costs covering incremental expenditures for health and education.
Total costs are expected to amount to about Rs.$461 million over
1996-98. The sources of financing for these costs include RS's
government budget (which includes receipts from privatizations and
concessions), the budgets of other public sector agencies and
public enterprises, loans from the World Bank (in a proposed amount
of US$125 million equivalent) and the IDB (for improving the
Secretariat of Finance), a loan from the Caixa Economica Federal
(to finance severance payments), and a technical assistance loan
from the federal government.
8.      Project Implementation. The Planning Secretariat of the RS
Government is coordinating implementation of the SRP under the
Governor's direction. The Planning Secretariat is also responsible
for directly coordinating water sector reforms. Other key agencies
for project implementation are the Finance Secretariat (public
finance); the Public Works Secretariat (telecommunications/power
privatizations); the transportation agency (roads concessions) and
the ports authority (ports concessions). Project supervision would
-2 -



be coordinated by a Project Implementation Unit at the Planning
Secretariat, and would focus on (a) continuous monitoring of reform
program; (b) implementation of required conditions for
disbursements; and (c) compliance with procurement, disbursement,
and auditing agreements.
9.      Project Sustainability. Overall project sustainability will
largely depend on federal policies to encourage program
implementation (e.g., linking federal financial assistance to
implementation of state reforms). Sustainability will also depend
on how easily reversible the reforms are. Clearly privatizations
and concessions will better withstand adverse changes in incentives
than fiscal discipline. Successful privatizations and concessions
will improve financial performance, investment, and service
delivery so as to discourage future expansion of state ownership or
direct management in privatized/concessioned sectors.
10.     Lessons Learned from Previous Operations. Key lessons of the
Bank's extensive experience in the reform of the public sector are
summarized as follows. First, projects must focus on a few
significant reforms that are hard to reverse -- such as
privatization of public enterprises and banks, and reforms passed
through legislation -- and that can be fully implemented during the
mandate of a government. Second, project design and implementation
arrangements must be flexible enough to achieve targeted reform
objectives. Third, as reform projects for subnational governments
can have high supervision costs, project implementation should seek
to include as much private participation as possible in such areas
as auditing and procurement. Finally, to ensure commitment in
implementation, the initiative to undertake the project components
should be the government's. The Bank's role should be to provide
financial and technical support.
11.     Poverty Category. Not applicable.
12.     Environmental Aspects. The RS State Reform Program will not
have adverse environmental impacts. The program will likely improve
environmental performance through better environmental oversight of
current state enterprises as well as increased investment in and
improved management of water and sanitation systems. The project
has been classified with a "B" environmental impact category. Prior
to each sale or concessioning of a facility with potentially
significant environmental problems, an environmental audit would be
prepared and an agreement would be reached among the responsible
entities on environmental performance targets and on remedying
identified problems.
13.     Program Objective Categories. Economic Management (EM)
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
- 3-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 18, 1997.
- 4 -



ANNEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
1.      The RGS State Reform Program will not have adverse
environmental impacts. The program will likely improve
environmental performance through better environmental oversight of
current state enterprises as well as increased investment in and
improved management of water and sanitation systems. The project
has been classified as Category B regarding its environmental
impacts.
2.      It was agreed that for each company or activity with
potentially significant environmental problems that, after the time
of appraisal, will be prepared for privatization under the Program,
the environmental obligations of the new owner/operator would be
determined before the time of sale/concessioning in order to: (a)
reduce the uncertainty for potential private sector investors about
their environmental obligations; and (b) allow improvements in
environmental performance of the affected operations. Following an
environmental audit, and still before the time of concessioning or
sale, agreement would be reached among the responsible entities on
environmental performance targets including the time and the
responsible party for remedying the identified problems. To
facilitate the integration of environmental concerns, it was
further agreed that the State Government will include the State
Environmental Agency (FEPAM) in all related discussions on
privatizations under the State Reform Program.
3.      Water and Sanitation. The water and sanitation sector is, for
most conventional pollutants, the main source of water pollution in
the state. Currently, there is very little sewage treatment, and
raw sewage from sewage collection systems and uncollected runoffs
directly enter the waterbodies. One of the reasons for considering
increased private sector participation in the water and sanitation
sector is the need to generate the financing needed to expand basic
sanitation services and associated wastewater treatment. The
planned reforms have, thus, a significant positive environmental
effect, and if properly designed, can contribute to improved
environmental management in the state.
4.      Since the environmental targets to be set for the new
utilities will be a critical factor in determining both the
economic feasibility and the environmental consequences of
restructuring, it is of critical importance that a consistent set
of environmental targets and obligations for the restructured
utilities be developed early in the process through a coordinated
mechanism between the water and sanitation sector on the one hand,
and the environment sector on the other.
5.      So far, specific locations and timetables for the
restructuring of the privatization of water and sanitation systems
have not been decided. However, it was agreed that the
privatization process of the water and sanitation sector would
include the following steps:
-5-



a) The detailed work of the consultants to be hired to study
options and design the process for water and sanitation
sector privatizations would include an analysis of
different wastewater treatment targets over time, their
impact on water quality and environmental damages, as well
as their costs and implications for other concession
parameters such as service expansion and tariffs.
b) The environmental agency (FEPAM) would participate in the
related Government discussions on the design of the water
and sanitation concessions based on the above mentioned
study. Wastewater treatment targets over time would be
agreed between FEPAM and the other relevant Government
agencies before the time of privatization of the
respective system.
c) An environmental audit of each system to be privatized
would be contracted by the Government and completed before
the time of privatization of the respective system. Audits
could include, inter alia, water quality and sampling
methods, wastewater discharges, and disposal of solid
waste from wastewater treatment plants. A time-bound plan
of action to address the identified environmental problems
would be agreed between the responsible Government
agencies and the future concessionaire. The Terms of
Reference for such audit would be sent to the Bank for
review and approval.
d) The Secretary of Health is in the process of setting up a
system for the supervision and enforcement of applicable
drinking water quality standards for all water operators
in the state. The development of this system will be
pursued as a matter of priority, and such a system would
be fully operational for the relevant service areas before
the time of privatization of any water system.
e) The concession will provide for a transition from a regime
with fixed targets into the emerging system of water basin
management by water basin committees. Water and sanitation
companies would be members of such water basin committees
with all rights and obligations including the payment of
water and effluent charges, which would be phased in over
a period of several years.
6.      Ports.  The Instituto Brasileiro do Meio-Ambiente (IBAMA) is
responsible for the environmental licensing and enforcement of port
terminals to be concessioned under the project. However, these
terminals currently operate without the required environmental
license. It was agreed that, for those terminals that have already
been concessioned or are about to be concessioned (petroleum,
containers, wheat and soybean), the concession contract (or where
applicable the bidding documents) would include a clause requiring
the concessionaire to undertake and submit to IBAMA, within two
months of contracting, an environmental audit of the facilities.
Based on this audit, IBAMA would determine environmental
- 6 -



obligations and issue the applicable operating license. For those
terminals to be concessioned in 1997 and later, the state would
contract consultants to undertake an environmental audit that would
be submitted to IBAMA for issuance of the applicable operating
license before the time of concessioning.
7.      Roads.       Road maintenance works do not require an
environmental license. However, it was agreed that the road
maintenance contracts would include explicit clauses ensuring the
environmentally acceptable behavior of the contractors (covering
issues such as construction wastes, construction camp management
and equipment maintenance). The contracts would be enforced by
DAER. In addition, the contracts would require a valid
environmental license for extraction and disposal sites, borrow
pits, and asphalt plants. These licenses are issued and enforced by
FEPAM.
8.      Some of the roads, whose maintenance works will be
concessioned, were constructed without the legally required
environmental license. Since this situation can create legal
impediments for the execution of maintenance works on these roads,
FEPAM and DAER will take the necessary steps to regularize the
legal situation for all roads whose maintenance is to be contracted
under the program and which do not operate under a legally required
license.
9.      Electricity. The project only includes the privatization of
two electricity distribution companies, which are generally
associated with only minor environmental issues. A review of
environmental issues at CEEE has recently been completed. If this
document does not contain a sufficient analysis of environmental
problems in the distribution sector, the Government would include a
more detailed environmental audit of the distribution companies in
the contract for the consultants that will prepare these companies
for sale. Prior to the sale of the distribution companies, FEPAM
and CEEE will agree on a compliance schedule to remedy identified
environmental problems in the respective part of CEEE.
- 7 -



