Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4139-BR
Loan Agreement
(Rio Grande do Sul State Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
Dated June 10, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4139-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 10, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A)
 the Bank has received a letter, dated December 12, 1996 (the 
Reform Program Letter), from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed, inter alia, to enhance the Borrower’s efficiency in the 
delivery of services and to improve its financial condition (the Program), declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance 
from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Program and of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project;
(C)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
following modification in Section 6.03 thereof (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
      “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Authorized Amounts” means the amounts out of the proceeds of the Loan 
authorized from time to time by the Bank to be withdrawn to finance Selected 
Activities approved by the Bank;
(b)
“CEEE” means Companhia Estadual de Energia Elétrica, the Borrower’s power 
company;
(c)
“CRT” means Companhia Riograndense de Telecomunicações, the Borrower’s 
telecommunications company;
(d)
“First Program Review” means the exchange of views referred to in Section 
3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Project Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which 
specifies the criteria for the eligibility and carrying out of Selected Activities to 
be financed under the Loan, including the detailed rules and procedures regarding 
procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting to be followed under the 
Project;
(f)
“Road Pole” means the set of intersection roads in the Borrower’s 
territory, as defined in the Borrower’s Laws No. 10698, 10699, 10700, 10701, 10702, 
10703, 10704, 10705 and 10706, all dated January 12, 1996, the operation of which is 
to be awarded in concession to private firms;
(g)
“Second Program Review” means the exchange of views referred to in 
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Selected Activity” means any of the activities under the Project which 
is proposed by the Borrower to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
Page  3
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
and twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
When submitting to the Bank, for approval, Selected Activities to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Borrower shall inform to the Bank the 
aggregate amounts required to be authorized by the Bank to finance such Activities, 
pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and 
environmental practices and the provisions of the Project Manual, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than 30 days after the disbursement of the 
proceeds of the Loan in respect of each of the Authorized Amounts referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) (i), (ii) and (iii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, furnish to the 
Page  4
Bank an audit report, by an auditor acceptable to the Bank, on the compliance by the 
Borrower with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement in respect of 
the procurement of goods and works financed under each such Authorized Amount, each 
such report to be prepared in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank.  
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Program and the taking of the actions specified 
in:
(a)
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, not earlier than September 1, 1997 but not 
later than December 31, 1997 (the  First Program Review); and
(b)
Schedule 7 to this Agreement, not earlier than March 1, 1998 but not 
later than June 30, 1998 (the Second Program Review).
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed 
action to be taken, after the disbursement of the Loan, which may have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Project, or of any action taken under the 
Program, including any action specified in Schedules 6 and 7 to this Agreement and 
paragraph 3 (b) (iii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments, agencies or enterprises of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
      (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
      (i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of 
such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
Page  5
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
 the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil; and
(b)
 the Project Manual has been issued by the Borrower to Central Bank of 
Brazil.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Central Bank of BrazilCentral Bank of Brazil.
Section 6.03. The date September 8, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Coordination and Planning of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
     Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Coordenação e Planejamento
Av. Borges de Medeiros, 1501 - 5o. andar
Page  6
90119-900 Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul
Brazil 
Telex:
Fax: 
SPN511708
55-51-2269722
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio do Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco K - 5o. andar
Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
(61) 1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Meo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SUL
By /s/ Antonio Britto
  /s/ João Carlos Brum Torres
Authorized Representatives
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                   Amount of the
                  Loan Allocated
          % of
                  (Expressed in
      Expenditures
Category
               Dollars)
     to be Financed
(1)
Goods, works,               42,000,000
     For goods: 
consultants’ services 
            100% of foreign 
(including auditors’
                   expenditures;
services) and training
     100% of local 
                          expenditures (ex-
                          factory cost); and 70%
                          of local expenditures
                          for other items procured
                          locally
Page  7
                          For works:
                          100% of foreign 
                          expenditures and 70% 
                          of local expenditures
                          For consultants’
                          services and training:
                          100%
(2)
Severance payments
       62,500,000
     100%
(3)
Grants                     12,500,000
     100% of amounts
                                 disbursed
(4)
Incremental
recurrent costs
        8,000,000
      90%, in respect of 
                                  withdrawals made 
                                  until June 30, 1997; 
                                  80% in respect of
                                  withdrawals made
                                  thereafter until
                                  June 30, 1998; and
                                  70% thereafter
                    __________
TOTAL
                   125,000,000
                   ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor;
(c)
the term “severance payments” means payments made by the Borrower’s 
enterprises, being restructured under the Project, to their employees  separated 
pursuant to the Borrower’s voluntary separation program (Programa de Demissões 
Voluntárias), described in the Borrower’s Complementary Law No. 10727, of January 23, 
1996;
(d)
the term “grants” means any transfers made, on a grant basis, by the 
Borrower to public or private non-profit entities for the carrying out of social 
assistance programs in the Borrower’s territory, in the areas of early childhood, 
public health, sanitation and basic education;  and
(c)
“incremental recurrent costs” means costs incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with social assistance programs aimed at mitigating the social impact of 
the reforms adopted under the Program.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a)
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments for expenditures: 
      (i)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in 
an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $62,500,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after a date twelve 
months before the date 
of this Agreement; 
     (ii)
unless such expenditures have been incurred on account of a 
Selected Activity 
approved by the Bank; and
    (iii)
under subprojects for highway maintenance and rehabilitation or 
for land 
management and rural poverty alleviation in excess of 
$15,000,000 for each 
subproject, if any such subproject is 
Page  8
part of a project being financed by the 
Bank under another loan; 
and
(b)
when the Authorized Amounts shall have reached $50,000,000 in the 
aggregate, approvals by the Bank of new Selected Activities shall be made as follows:
      (i)
the Bank will approve new Selected Activities requiring Authorized 
Amounts of 
up to $25,000,000 in the aggregate, only after the First 
Program Review shall 
have taken place and the Bank shall be 
satisfied, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank, 
that the actions specified in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement 
have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; 
     (ii)
the Bank will approve new Selected Activities requiring Authorized 
Amounts of 
up to $30,000,000 in the aggregate, only after the Second 
Program Review shall 
have taken place and the Bank shall be 
satisfied, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank, 
that the actions specified in Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement 
have been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (iii)
notwithstanding the provisions of (i) and (ii) above, the Bank 
will approve 
new Selected Activities requiring Authorized Amounts of up 
to $20,000,000 in 
the aggregate, whenever concessions have been awarded 
to investors which are 
not part of the Brazilian federal, state or 
municipal public sector and/or 
full service management 
contracts, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, 
have been awarded to firms acceptable to the Bank, which are not 
part of the Brazilian federal, state or municipal public sector, for the 
operation of water and sewerage systems in areas of the Borrower’s territory 
with a total population of at least 800,000 persons in the aggregate 
(such 
areas to have a total population of at least 600,000 persons 
in the aggregate 
presently being served by Companhia Riograndense de 
Saneamento, the Borrower’s 
water and sanitation company), such 
systems to be operated in accordance with 
environmental targets 
established on the basis of environmental audits, 
acceptable to 
the Bank, carried out before the award of the corresponding 
concessions and/or service management contracts for the operation of such 
systems.
4.
If, after any of the Program Reviews, the Bank shall have given notice to the 
Borrower that any action specified in Schedule 6 or Schedule 7 to this Agreement, as 
the case may be, has not been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress 
satisfactory to the Bank in the taking of such action, then the Bank may, by further 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, cancel the amount of the Loan referred to in 
paragraph 3 (b) (i) or (ii) of this Schedule, as the case may be.
5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures:
(a)
under contracts for goods and works;
(b)
under contracts for services of consulting firms and individual 
consultants costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 and $50,000, respectively; 
and
(c)
for training, severance payments, grants and incremental recurrent costs, 
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the achievement of the objectives of 
the Program regarding the enhancement of the Borrower’s efficiency in the delivery of 
public services, and improvement of its financial condition.
Page  9
The Project consists of the carrying out of activities, selected by the Borrower 
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Project Manual, comprising, inter 
alia: (a) technical assistance, including carrying out of studies and training and 
acquisition of equipment, for: (i) preparation of  a medium-term plan of actions to 
improve the Borrower’s financial condition; and/or (ii) preparation and implementation 
of the privatization process of enterprises owned or controlled by the Borrower, or 
the process for concession of services, in the telecommunications, ports, roads, power 
and water and sanitation sectors of the Borrower; (b) the restructuring of CEEE, CRT 
and any other enterprise owned or controlled by the Borrower which has adopted the 
voluntary separation program referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  (c) subprojects in the areas of land management and rural poverty 
alleviation, and/or maintenance and rehabilitation of highways, schools and hospitals; 
and (d) social assistance programs in the areas of early childhood, public health, 
sanitation and education.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
      (i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
     (ii)
LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
      (i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
     (ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
Page  10
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
      (a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
      (i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
     (ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
      (d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate, 
LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each 
Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment.
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
Page  11
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after April 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed 
Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. In the procurement of goods 
and works under this Part B.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the 
Project shall be used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works under 
this Part B.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall 
always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for 
such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(consórcio) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in 
each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices;
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% of the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national or international shopping 
Page  12
procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent may be procured under lump 
sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of this Schedule.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank to its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed 
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  13
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $20,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that the Bank may, at any time, 
modify, by notice to the Borrower, the Authorized Allocation to an amount which, in 
the reasonable opinion of the Bank, shall be the estimated amount of Project 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in the four-month period 
after the date of such notice.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Page  14
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
First Program Review
1.
The Borrower’s policies regarding public expenditures, tax administration 
improvements, public borrowings, and use of privatization proceeds, as set forth in 
the Reform Program Letter, have been substantially complied with.
2.
Control of CRT’s management has been transferred to the strategic  investor who 
has acquired 35% of the common shares of CRT’s capital.
3.
Concessions have been awarded to firms, which are not part of the Brazilian 
federal, state or municipal public sector, for the operation of the container terminal 
and the wheat-soy terminal in the Borrower’s port of Rio Grande.
4.
Concessions have been awarded to firms, which are not part of the Brazilian 
federal, state or municipal public sector, for the maintenance, operation and 
improvement of roads under at least three Road Poles.
5.
The draft of a study on the Borrower’s water and sanitation sector, with 
recommendations to restructure such sector, increase the degree of private sector 
participation in such sector, create a competitive environment for the service 
providers and redefine such sector’s social policy, and an action plan to implement 
such recommendations, has been completed.
6.
A regulatory agency responsible for the supervision of the Borrower’s public 
services subject to concession or permission has been created and the members of its 
board have been appointed.
SCHEDULE 7
Second Program Review
1.
The Borrower’s policies regarding public expenditures, tax administration 
improvements, public borrowings, and use of privatization proceeds, as set forth in 
Page  15
the Reform Program Letter, have been substantially complied with.
2.
Concessions have been awarded to firms, which are not part of the Brazilian 
federal, state or municipal public sector, for the operation of the refrigeration 
pier, the liquid bulk terminal and the storage facility in the Borrower’s port of Rio 
Grande.
3.
Concessions have been awarded to firms, which are not part of the Brazilian 
federal, state or municipal public sector, for the maintenance, operation and 
improvement of roads under at least four Road Poles (other than those referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement).
4.
The majority of the voting shares of CEEE’s Distribution Company North-East and 
CEEE’s Distribution Company Center-West has been transferred to investors which are 
not part of the Brazilian federal, state or municipal public sector. “CEEE’s 
Distribution Company North-East” means the power distribution company, resulting from 
the partial divestiture of CEEE, which will supply electricity to about 1,120,000 
customers in the northeastern area of the Borrower’s territory and part of the Porto 
Alegre metropolitan region, and “CEEE’s Distribution Company Center-West” means the 
power distribution company, resulting from the partial divestiture of CEEE, which will 
supply electricity to at least 720,000 customers in the center-western area of the 
Borrower’s territory and part of the Porto Alegre metropolitan region.
5.
The agency referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement is fully 
operational.
