                                  Document of
                                the World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003454



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-40130 IDA-50620)



                                    ON A

                                   CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 105 MILLION AND SDR 26.08
             (US$154 MILLION AND US$ 40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                     TO

                              REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                  FOR THE

             ASSAM AGRICULTURAL COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT



                               December 2, 2015


Agriculture Global Practice
Sustainable Development
South Asia
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December 2, 2015)

                         Currency Unit = Indian Rupee
                              INR66.86 = US$ 1
                               US$1.37 = SDR 1


                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1 – June 30


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


          Assam Agricultural Competitiveness
AACP                                                   GM       Gopal Mitra
          Project
APPL      Amalgamated Plantations Private Limited      GWM      Ground Water Monitoring
                                                                International Bank for
AF        Additional Financing                         IBRD
                                                                Reconstruction and Development
          Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
AH&VSD                                                 ICB      International Competitive Bidding
          Services Department
                                                                International Development
AI        Artificial Insemination                      IDA
                                                                Association
ALDA      Assam Livestock Development Agency           IFC      International Finance Corporation
          Assam Rural Infrastructure &                          Joint Forest Management
ARIASP                                                 JFMC
          Agricultural Services Project                         Committee
ASG       Agro-Service Group                           LLP      Low lift Pump
          Agricultural Technology Management                    National Institute of Agricultural
ATMA                                                   MANAGE
          Agency                                                Extension Management
BRC       Block Resource Center                        MPI      Milk Producing Institution
BTT       Block Technology Team                        MIS      Management Information System
                                                                Market Management and
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                  MMDC
                                                                Development Committee
CPS       Country Program Strategy                     MTR      Mid Term Review
                                                                Micro Watershed Development
CSS       Central Sector Scheme                        MWDP
                                                                Program
DCS       Dairy Cooperative Societies                  M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                                National Bank for Agriculture and
DEA       Department of Economic Affairs               NABARD
                                                                Rural Development
                                                                National Dairy Development
DOA       Department of Agriculture                    NDDB
                                                                Board
DOEF      Department of Environment and Forests        NGO      Non-Government Organization
DOF       Department of Fisheries                      PCU      Project Coordination Unit
DOS       Department of Sericulture                    PDO      Project Development Objective
                                                                Pilot Enterprise Development
EIRR      Internal Rate of Return                      PEDGF
                                                                Grant Fund
EMF    Environmental Management Framework         PIU                Project Implementation Unit
FAC    Farmer Advisory Committee                  PWD                Public Works Department
                                                                     Quality Assessment of Lending
FD     Forest Department                          QALP
                                                                     Portfolio
FIRR   Financial Internal Rate of Return          RKVY               Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana
FPO    Farmer Producer Organization               STW                Shallow Tube Well
GoA    Government of Assam                        TTL                Task Team Leader
GO1    Government of India                        VOC                Vehicle Operating Cost
GIS    Geographical Information System            WAMUL              West Assam Milk Union Limited




                  Vice President :         Annette Dixon
                Country Director :         Onno Ruhl
               Practice Manager :          Martien Van Nieuwkoop
            Project Team Leader :          Manivannan Pathy
               ICR Team Leader :           Bayarsaikhan Tumurdavaa
                                               INDIA
                              Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project
                                            CONTENTS

Project Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information..................................................................................................... v 
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. v 
  C. Ratings Summary..................................................................................................... v 
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................ vi 
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................ vi 
  F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................. vii 
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .............................................................. xii 
  H. Restructuring ........................................................................................................ xiii 
  I. Disbursement Profile............................................................................................. xiv 
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Designs ........................................ 1 
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................ 11 
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 20 
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................ 21 
  6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 24 
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ... 25 
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................... 26 
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................. 27 
  Annex 3. Financial and Economic Analyses ............................................................. 44 
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..... 60 
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR .................................................................... 63 
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ................................................................... 69 
  MAP: Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project ............................................... 70 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Assam Agricultural
Country:                India                   Project Name:             Competitiveness
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P084792                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40130,IDA-50620
ICR Date:               12/03/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                GOVT OF INDIA
Original Total          XDR 105.00M (OP)
                                                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 111.59M
Commitment:             XDR 32.60 M (AF)
Revised Amount:         XDR 131.08M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Assam Rural Infrastructure & Agricultural Services Society,
Department of Agriculture, Government of Assam
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       10/29/2003     Effectiveness:             02/24/2005        02/24/2005
                                                                                  09/27/2006
                                                                                  12/09/2009
                                                                                  09/20/2011
Appraisal:            06/30/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  10/28/2011
                                                                                  03/14/2012
                                                                                  12/10/2013
Approval:             12/14/2004     Mid-term Review:           02/01/2008        02/01/2008
                                     Closing:                   03/31/2010        03/15/2015

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time          Yes                                             None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
                                                     Quality Assessment
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory            of Lending Portfolio Moderately Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
                                                     (QALP):

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                     10                    10
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                      9                     9
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                        11                    11
Irrigation and drainage                                                 10                    10
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                60                    60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rural development                                                 14                    14
Rural markets                                                           29                    29
Rural policies and institutions                                         28                    28
Rural services and infrastructure                                       29                    29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Annette Dixon                        Praful C. Patel

Country Director:            Onno Ruhl                            Michael F. Carter

Practice                                                          Constance A. Bernard/Gajanand
                             Martien Van Nieuwkoop
Manager/Manager:                                                  Pathmanathan

Project Team Leader:         Manivannan Pathy
                                                                  Robert Epworth
ICR Team Leader:        BayarsaikhanTumurdavaa
ICR Primary Author:     BayarsaikhanTumurdavaa

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The project development objective was to increase the productivity and market access of
targeted farmers and community groups. Key indicators of success were increased yields
of crop, fish, and livestock products – complemented by an increase in the proportion of
marketed surplus.

Revised Project Development Objectives

No Change

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

The original Results Framework was amended to revise two PDO indicators and to add
one core indicator. Three new indicators were added and three were revised in the list of
Intermediate Outcome Indicators. The revised Results Framework was approved by the
Board in March 2012 as part a of the Additional Financing package.


                                       Original Target      Formally     Actual Value
                                         Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                            approval         Target      Completion or
                                          documents)         Values      Target Years
              Increase in crop productivity (t/ha)
              (i) Dry season paddy
Indicator 1 : (ii) Mustard
              (iii) Cabbage
              (iv) Cauliflower
              (i) 1.5
Value                                 (i) 5.0                            (i)     5.5
              (ii) 0.6
(quantitative                         (ii) 0.8                           (ii)    1.1
              (iii) 7.0
or                                    (iii) 8.5                          (iii)   10.6
              (iv) 5.6
Qualitative)                          (iv)7.0                            (iv)    9.8

Date achieved December 2006            March 2010                        January 2015

Comments
             Achieved: All productivity targets were exceeded by 10-38%. Against
(incl. %
             their baseline values, productivity of individual crops at project
achievement)
                completion increased by 267% for dry season paddy; 83% for mustard,
                51% for cabbage and 75% for cauliflower.

              Increase in fish productivity (t/ha)
              (i) Ponds
Indicator 2 :
              (ii) Tanks
              (iii) Beels
Value
                   (i)    0.485         (i)1.455          (i) 2.75         (i)     3.5
(quantitative
                   (ii)   0.850         (ii)2.550         (ii)2.25         (ii)    2.3
or
                   (iii) 0.480          (iii)0.960        (iii)0.75        (iii) 1.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved December 2006             March 2010         March 2015 January 2015
              Achieved: Revised at AF. All productivity targets were exceeded by 3 to
Comments      113% at project completion. Compared with their baseline values,
(incl. %      productivities at project completion increased by 600% for ponds; by
achievement) 156% for tanks, and 220 % for beels.

Indicator 3 :   Increase in cropping intensity (%)
Value
(quantitative
                130                     195                              200
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved December 2006            March 2010                       March 2014
Comments      Achieved: Revised at AF. The cropping intensity at project completion
(incl. %      exceeded its target by 3% and against the baseline value the cropping
achievement)  intensity increased by 54%.
              Increase in crop diversification (%)
Indicator 4 : (i) Area under cereals
              (ii) Area under high value crops
Value
(quantitative      (i)    83               (i)     80                       (i)    65
or                 (ii)   17               (ii)    20                       (ii)   35
Qualitative)
Date achieved December 2006            March 2010                       January 2015
              Achieved: Crop diversification exceeded its target. At project completion,
Comments
              the area under high value crop (mainly vegetables and oilseeds) was
(incl. %
              increased from 17% to 35% with a concomitant decrease in area under
achievement)
              cereals (predominantly paddy)
               Increase in marketed surplus (%)
                   (i)    Dry season paddy
Indicator 5 :      (ii)   Mustard
                   (iii) Vegetables

                (i)    18                     (i)    45     (i)     45         (i)    26.1
Value
                (ii)   17                     (ii)   50     (ii)    45         (ii)   64.5
(quantitative (iii)    28                  (iii)      92      (iii)   65      (iii)   99.5
or
Qualitative)

Date achieved December 2006             March 2010         March 2015      January 2015

             Substantially achieved: Revised at AF. The marketed surpluses for
             mustard and vegetables exceeded their revised targets by 43% and 53%.
             However, the marketed surplus for dry season paddy achieved 60% of its
Comments
             target value. This reflects a significant decrease in area and production of
(incl. %
             rice due to introduction for potatoes in the project area and reflecting the
achievement)
             strong diversification of agriculture production systems as reported under
             Indicator 4.

                Beneficiaries (Number)
Indicator 6 :     (i)     Project Beneficiaries
                  (ii)    Of which female (beneficiaries)
Value
(quantitative                           (i) 410,000                           (i) 565,745
                 0
or                                      (ii) 82,000                           (ii) 83,744
Qualitative)
Date achieved              NA               March 2015                       March 2015
Comments        Achieved: New core indicator added at AF. At project completion, the
(incl. %        total number of direct project beneficiaries reached 565,745 exceeding the
achievement)    revised target by 38%. 15% of direct beneficiaries were women.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                      Original Target Formally      Actual Value
                                        Values (from    Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value
                                          approval      Target     Completion or
                                         documents)     Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Component 1: STWs Installed and Operated (Number)
Value
(quantitative
                         0                  60,000       90,000        100,000
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     December 2006          March 2010   March 2010     March 2015
Comments
              Exceeded: Revised at AF. At project completion STW installation
(incl. %
              exceeded the revised target by 11%.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Component 1: Area Irrigated by STWs (Ha)
Value                    0                 150,000      225,000        250,000
(quantitative
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved            NA               March 2010     March 2015      March 2015
Comments
                Exceeded: Revised at AF. At project completion the area irrigated by
(incl. %
                STWs reached 250,000 ha exceeding the revised target by 11%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Component 1: Drained Area Brought Under Cultivation (Ha)
Value
(quantitative
                           0                20,000          35,000          31,706
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     December 2006          March 2010      March 2015 February 2015
Comments      Substantially achieved: Revised at AF. At project completion, the
(incl. %      drained area brought under cultivation substantially achieved the revised
achievement)  target at 91%.
              Component 1: Increase in Crop Productivity in Drained Lands Under
Indicator 4 :
              Cultivation (wet season paddy, t/ha)
Value
(quantitative
                                              2                               4.41
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                            March 2010                      January 2015
              Exceeded: New indicator was added at AF.
Comments
(incl. %      At project completion, the productivity of wet season paddy exceeded its
achievement) target by 121%.

Indicator 5 :   Component 1: ASGs Operating at Financially Sustainable Levels (%)
Value
(quantitative
                                              85                              83
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     December 2006           March 2010                     January 2015
Comments      Substantially Achieved: At project completion the total number of ASGs
(incl. %      operating at financially sustainable level reached 83%, substantially
achievement)  achieving its target.
              Component 1: Fishery Groups Reporting Increased Fish Productivity (%)
                 (i)     CIGs
Indicator 6 :
                 (ii)    CTGs
                 (iii) Beels
Value
                                           (i)     85                     (i)      100
(quantitative
                                           (ii)    80                     (ii)     100
or
                                           (iii) 70                       (iii) 100
Qualitative)
Date achieved                             March 2015                     January 2015
Comments      Exceeded: New indicator was added at AF.
(incl. %      At project completion all fishery groups reported increased fish
achievement) productivity exceeding agreed targets.
              Component 2: Farmers Participating in ATMA Demonstrations Adopt at
Indicator 7 :
              Least 50% of the Technologies Demonstrated (%)
Value
(quantitative
                                              50                               50
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved     December 2006           March 2010                     January 2015
              Achieved: New indicator was added at AF.
Comments
(incl. %
              At project completion the target was fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Component 2: Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCS) Functioning(Number)
Value
(quantitative
                           35                    175                             294
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved       December 2006           March 2010           NA          March 2015
Comments       Exceeded: At project completion, the total number of DCS that collected
(incl. %       at least 100 liters of milk per day one year after formation exceeded its
achievement) target by 68%.
Indicator 9 : Component 3: Villages Connected With Improved Rural Roads (Number)
Value
(quantitative
                          189                   1,350                           1,423
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved       December 2006           March 2010           NA          March 2015
Comments
               Exceeded: At project completion the total number villages connected
(incl. %
               with improved roads were 1423, which exceeded the target by 5%.
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Component 3: Increase in traffic density on completed roads by 200%.
Value
(quantitative
                           96                    285                             302
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved       December 2006           March 2010                     February 2013
Comments
               Exceeded: At project completion, the traffic density on new/improved
(incl. %
               roads reached 302%, which is 6% higher than the target value.
achievement)
               Component 3: Increase in Trading Volume of Improved Markets by 30%
Indicator 11 :
               (Tons)
Value
(quantitative
                       393                   510                          652
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved    December 2006           March 2010                    March 2015
Comments
              Exceeded: At project completion, the trading volume of improved
(incl. %
              markets exceeded its target by 28%.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP         in
                                       US$ millions
                                                     Matching grant for irrigation
                                                     development was increased
                                                     from 30% to 50% of total
                                                     investment cost; requirement
  09/27/2006       N         S     S         13.37
                                                     of farmers’ mandatory
                                                     borrowing to cover their part
                                                     of investment cost was
                                                     removed.
                                                     Project closing date was
  12/09/2009       N         S    MS         95.63   extended by 21 months until
                                                     December 31, 2011.
                                                     Unallocated amount of
                                                     SDR10.5 million was
  09/20/2011       N         S     S        124.37
                                                     reallocated to different
                                                     expenditure categories.
                                                     Project closing date was
  10/28/2011       N         S     S        124.37   extended by 3.5 months until
                                                     March 15, 2012.
                                                     Additional Financing and
                                                     level I restructuring were
                                                     done introducing following
                                                     changes- Results Framework
                                                     was revised; eight
                                                     disbursement categories were
  03/14/2012       Y         S     S        128.02
                                                     consolidated into two
                                                     categories and frequency of
                                                     disbursement reporting was
                                                     changed from SOE based to a
                                                     quarterly report based
                                                     disbursement (IUFRS).
                                                     Savings of SDR 6.5 million
                                                     under Additional Financing
  12/10/2013       N         S    MS        147.91
                                                     resulted from depreciation of
                                                     Indian Rupee were cancelled.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Designs
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.     Assam is located in northeastern India and has a total population of 31.2 million,
86 percent of whom live in rural areas. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy. At
appraisal, agriculture, forestry, and fisheries jointly accounted for 31 percent of the state’s
gross domestic product (GDP) with direct bearing on Assam’s rural non-farm economy.
2.      Assam is a low income state with a high incidence of poverty. Poverty remains
predominantly rural. At appraisal, 87 percent of the state’s poor lived in rural areas with
an unemployment rate more than twice the national average. The agriculture sector was
characterized by rice-dominated farming systems and small farm size. Monsoon-based
rice production systems in the Brahmaputra and Barak valleys accounted for about 70
percent of the net cropped area. Approximately 83 percent of farmers had less than two
hectares of land, and limited capacity to invest in either capital works or crop inputs.1
3.      Assam’s agriculture sector was performing poorly at appraisal. Between 1993-94
and 2001-02, agricultural GDP declined at a rate of 0.1 percent per annum compared with
annual national agriculture GDP growth of 2.9 percent. Public investment in rural
infrastructure such as rural roads, bridges and irrigation, and private investment in
agriculture were very limited. Lack of irrigation was a major issue, especially during the
dry season, when less than 20 percent of farmland was irrigated. Farmers had limited
access to appropriate technologies, institutional credit, and markets. Livestock
productivity was low as well.
4.      The key constraints in agriculture and allied sectors were: (i) lack of capital to
invest in irrigation and farm mechanization; (ii) inadequate market-linked technology
transfer; (iii) low productivity of livestock and poorly performing livestock services; (iv)
absence of the kind of effective producer organizations that would facilitate service
delivery and the establishment of market linkages; and, (v) a poor rural road network and
inadequate infrastructure connecting producers with markets. Livestock production was
severely constrained by poor animal genetics. The fisheries sector was unorganized and
underdeveloped.
5.     To address these constraints, the Government of Assam (GoA) focused on
providing an enabling policy environment. The Agricultural Policy Paper prepared in
2004 sought to expand shallow tube-well (STW) irrigation and farm mechanization,
enhance research and extension services, and increase private sector involvement in farm



1
  Of the total farmers, 62% w e r e marginal f a r m e r s with less than1 hectare and 21% were small farmers with 1-2
hectares of land.


                                                           1
input supply to achieve higher productivity. The draft Livestock Policy promoted producer
cooperatives and private sector marketing. The draft Fish Seed Act aimed to ensure the
quality of fish hatchery outputs and protect fisheries biodiversity. Also, the proposed
amendments to the Assam Fisheries Rules (1953) were to remove impediments to
community management of oxbow lakes (known locally as beels) for fish production. The
Road Maintenance Policy promoted the creation of government funding mechanism to
support sustainable road maintenance. The implementation of these policy reforms was
supported by several Bank-funded investment projects in the country, including the
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project (ARIASP) launched in 1995.
6.       There was a strong rationale for the Bank to support rural development in Assam
through the project. The Bank's 2004 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) promoted: (i)
improving government effectiveness, fostering decentralized services, and community
driven development; (ii) empowering local communities through investments; and (iii)
promoting private sector-led growth through access to finance and development of private
irrigation, community drainage, and all-weather road access. The project directly
supported these objectives.
7.     The project was to contribute towards the client's development objective of
reducing poverty through upgraded infrastructure and improved physical access to market
and social welfare services. It would do so by increasing farm productivity and family
incomes, particularly those identified as small and marginal producers. It would also seek
to improve sustainable natural resource management and community access to common
resources.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
8.      The original PDO was to increase the productivity and market access of targeted
farmers and community groups. Key indicators of success would be increased yields of
crops, fish and livestock products, and increases in the proportion of marketed surplus.
1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators
9.     The PDO remained unchanged during project implementation. However, at
Additional Financing, the Results Framework was amended to revise two PDO indicators
and add a core indicator. Three new indicators were added and three revised in the list of
Intermediate Outcome Indicators.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
10.     At appraisal, it was estimated that over 410,000 farmers and other producers
across the agriculture, fishery, diary, forestry, and livestock sectors were to benefit
directly from project interventions. The interventions were to focus predominantly on the
most disadvantaged sections of farming community including small and marginal farmers,
and traditionally socially excluded groups.


                                            2
1.5 Original Components
11.     The project had three components: (i) Investment Grant Scheme; (ii) Agricultural
Services and Market Chain Development; and (iii) Infrastructure Development. The
investment grant scheme-related activities were to be implemented in all 24 districts of
Assam under the original credit. The agricultural services, marketing, and infrastructure
development activities were to be implemented in selected districts, where the prospects
for agricultural growth and poverty reduction were considered to be the highest.
12.      Component 1: Investment Grant Scheme (US$98.40 million). 2 The first
component aimed to address two principal constraints: the lack of available investment
capital and the limited capacity of farms and rural communities to undertake activities to
increase productivity. The Investment Grant Scheme comprised three subcomponents: (i)
irrigation development; (ii) farm mechanization; and (iii) fish production.
13.      Component 2: Agricultural Services and Market Chain Development
(US$44.61 million).3 The second component aimed to address three principal constraints:
the inadequacy of existing market-linked technology transfer, the absence of producer
organizations with links to markets, and the low productivity of livestock resources. It
consisted of seven subcomponents: (i) farm advisory services; (ii) marketing extension;
(iii) livestock upgrading; (iv) fish seed; (v) milk marketing; (vi) forestry; and (vii) a
project coordination unit.
14.     Component 3: Infrastructure Development (US$148.59 million). 4 The third
component aimed to address the poor rural road network and inadequate rural market
infrastructure. It consisted of two subcomponents: (i) roads and bridges; and (ii) rural
markets.
1.6 Revised Components
15.     There was no change in the three components and twelve subcomponents during
project implementation.
1.7 Other significant changes
16.     During project implementation, an Additional Financing, one level-I restructuring,
and five level-II restructurings were approved and implemented. An Additional Financing
was approved in March 2012 to scale up the project activities and enhance its development
impacts. This expansion and consolidation was pursued through policy initiatives to
develop synergies between project activities and ongoing state and national government
schemes to establish a system for sustainable groundwater use, encouraging more private


2 The amount for the original project was US$66.23 million and for the Additional Financing US$ 32.17 million.
3
  The amount for the original project was US$32.22 million and for the Additional Financing US$ 11.39 million.
4 The amount for the original project was US$115.88 million and for the Additional Financing US$ 32.17million.




                                                         3
sector participation. This is in addition to continued investments in irrigation, drainage,
mechanization, extension, rural markets, roads, and access to markets in selected districts.
17.     The Results Framework was revised under Additional Financing, consolidating
eight disbursement categories into two (with a common reimbursement percentage of 80
percent). The frequency of disbursement reporting was changed from SOE based to a
quarterly report based disbursement (IUFRS).
18.     The following changes were introduced as part of one level-I and five level-II
restructurings.
    i)       On September 27, 2006 (level II restructuring) the matching grant provided to
             farmers for irrigation development was increased from 30 to 50 percent of the
             total investment cost, and the requirement of farmers’ mandatory borrowing
             from commercial banks to cover their part of the investment cost was removed.
    ii)      On December 9, 2009 (level II restructuring) the project closing date was
             extended by 21 months (to December 31, 2011) to complete the remaining
             project activities.
    iii)     On September 20, 2011 (level II restructuring) a reallocation of credit among
             expenditure categories was done to utilize the un-allocated amount of SDR10.5
             million.
    iv)      On October 28, 2011 (level II restructuring) the project closing date was
             extended by 3.5 months (from December 2011 to March 15, 2012,) to provide
             the necessary implementation support to the project and also to complete the
             preparation of Additional Financing.
    v)       On March 14, 2012 (level I restructuring) Additional Financing and
             restructuring revised the results framework and consolidated eight
             disbursement categories into two categories. The frequency of disbursement
             reporting was changed from SOE based to a quarterly report based
             disbursement (IUFRS).
    vi)      On December 10, 2013 (level II restructuring) savings in the amount of SDR
             6.517 million of the credit (US$10 million equivalent) under Additional
             Financing were cancelled. These savings resulted from significant depreciation
             of the Indian rupee against US dollar at that time.5




5
  Between March 2012 (AF appraisal) and December 2013, Indian Rupee depreciated by 24% against US$ (from INR
50: US$1 to INR 62: US$1) resulting in significant savings of project proceeds in domestic currency terms.




                                                     4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
19.     The overall project design was robust and satisfactory. The project supported the
GoA’s initiative to carry out substantive reforms in the public agricultural extension
system to make it more pluralistic, improve collaboration between line departments, and
introduce pilot changes in the planning of agricultural extension and utilization of
government funds. The project design also supported GoA’s program to upgrade the
productive capacity of livestock and fish resources, and to invest in critical rural
infrastructure including rural roads, bridges, and market yards.
20.    The project drew lessons from earlier Bank-financed projects including the
Diversified Agricultural Support Project, which promoted community participation and
para-veterinary program development, and the National Agricultural Technology Project,
through which the concepts of Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA)
and farmer organizations were piloted.
21.      The project was ambitious in its scale and scope. It was implemented across all 24
districts of the State. It promoted policy and institutional reforms; changes in the planning
and decision making processes of agricultural extension; training and capacity building;
and community mobilization. The project management involved coordination across
seven line departments, the State Agriculture University, and NGOs.
22.     In the project design, specific measures were introduced to mitigate potential
impacts of identified risks. These measures included selective use of contract staff, well-
focused training programs for project staff, and seeking GoA’s assurance to keep crucial
staff in position during implementation. The introduction of the ATMA model required
inter-agency collaboration at district level and below, and promoted the engagement of
NGOs and private service providers during project implementation. To minimize political
interference in road selection, the preparation of the Project Operations Manual clearly
defined the selection criteria focusing on vulnerable groups and poor communities. This
was incorporated into a loan covenant. A loan covenant was also introduced to ensure
adequate funding for the maintenance of rural roads. The following covenants were also
included to ensure the sustainability of livestock sector interventions: (i) the Assam
Livestock Development Agency (ALDA) should develop a business plan to support
sustainable artificial insemination (AI) and breed improvement services, and (ii) that AI
services should operate on full-cost recovery basis.
2.2 Implementation
23.   Overall project implementation was satisfactory. Overcoming the initial delays in
implementation, the project was able to deliver all key results and exceeded most of the


                                              5
output and outcome targets (see Results Framework in Datasheet). The conduct of the
project was flexible and responded effectively to various challenges encountered during
implementation. These challenges and issues and how the project responded to them are
discussed below.
24.      The project got off to a slow start primarily due to: (i) an unrealistic
implementation schedule, which did not allow sufficient time for start-up activities and
community mobilization; (ii) delays in filling critical positions; (iii) weak financial
management, monitoring and evaluation; (iv) difficulties in using International
Competitive Bidding for procurement of pump sets; and (v) excessive centralization of
decision making at the project coordination unit (PCU). At the Mid-Term Review (MTR)
in February 2008, with 54 percent of the project time already elapsed, only 16 percent of
the total credit amount was disbursed. This led project implementation progress to be
downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory. Project management and financial management
were downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory.
25.    Risks and critical issues affecting implementation were identified jointly by Bank
teams and implementing agencies (IAs) during MTR and support missions and well-
defined and time-bound action plans were agreed upon with the GoA to address them.
After MTR, the GoA took decisive measures to rectify a number of such issues. These
included filling vacant positions, improving weak M&E and financial management
systems, devolving authority to the implementing agencies, simplifying administrative
procedures, streamlining fund flow arrangements, improving management effectiveness,
and community procurement of assets. These changes led to improved implementation
from mid-2009 onwards. The appointment of a fully committed new Project Director and
Agriculture Production Commissioner was a critical factor in turning the project around.
26.     Since 2010 until its closing date, the project progress has been consistently
Satisfactory except for 2013/2014, when implementation pace slowed down (and the
rating was downgraded to Moderately Satisfactory) due to weak performances of
livestock, rural road, and market development activities. Periodic flooding in some areas
and short construction seasons exacerbated the situation. At closing, the project had
delivered all key outputs and outcomes, exceeding most of its original and revised targets.
Bank supervision missions provided constructive guidance which was for the most part
followed by the IAs.
27.     In general, the project was highly responsive to changing needs and emerging
issues. Overall, government commitment was strong, and stakeholders’ engagement and
participatory processes were satisfactory and beneficiary response was encouraging.
Being a flagship project of the GoA, progress was periodically reviewed by the Chief
Minister of Assam. A number of factors were instrumental in the improvements seen




                                             6
during the course of the project, particularly during later phases of its implementation,
and are summarized as follows.
i) Simplification and streamlining of project
   implementation procedures including
   changes in Operational Guidelines of AF.
   The micro watershed development
   program was introduced on 15,919 ha of
   land during the first eight years of the
   project. During the last two-and-half years,
   the watershed program expanded to cover
   an additional 16,821 ha – as the result of
   simplification and streamlining of
   procedures.
ii) Improved M&E system. The M&E system was revitalized and its performance was
    improved as a result of increased attention of the new project management team and
    persistent coaching efforts on the part of Bank supervision missions. This in turn helped
    the new project management team to recognize key issues affecting implementation
    more quickly and take actions in timely manner. This was one of the key factors
    contributing to the eventual success of the project.
iii) Enhanced quality control systems. Quality control mechanisms were operationalized
     for community-level and infrastructure investments, including enhanced audit scope
     for physical verification of community assets; third party supervision consultants for
     monitoring road and bridge activities; and GIS-based information system for spatial
     mapping all irrigation pumps along with water quality parameters. These measures
     helped improve the pace and quality of project implementation.
iv) Greater transparency at community level, including disclosure of ineligible applicants
    under irrigation and mechanization sub-components, disclosure of the beneficiary list,
    consultations with market participants, and use of road development committees
    enhanced project performance. Social audits undertaken for the community institutions
    (especially for Joint Forest Management Committees [JFMCs]) brought greater
    transparency to field-level implementation.
v) New performance-based contracting system for NGOs developed and implemented
   after the MTR significantly improved the performance of NGOs in executing field
   activities with communities.




                                             7
vi) Introduction of parent-child fund flow and accounting system enabled the project to
    reduce the time required for payment to beneficiaries almost 10 times and brought in a
    significant efficiency in implementation.6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
28.     Overall, the M&E system of the project was well designed, and was used
effectively.
29.     M&E Design. M&E was designed to be comprehensive. It consisted of three
elements: (i) Implementing departments and agencies regularly monitored and reported
physical and financial inputs and outputs; (ii) Third party M&E consultants monitored
and evaluated project processes, quantifying short-term outputs and outcomes; and (iii)
The same M&E consultants carried out a baseline study, and comprehensive impact
analysis reports during the MTR and at project completion. The M&E mechanism
emphasized stakeholder participation and was designed to facilitate rapid identification of
shortcomings and problem areas and facilitate timely corrections. Some PDO-level and
intermediate-level outcome indicators in the Results Framework were too general to be
suitable for monitoring progress. In March 2012, the Results Framework was revised as
part of Level-I restructuring, during which at PDO level two indicators were revised and
one indicator was added. At the Intermediate Outcome level, three indicators were revised
and three added.
30.     M&E Implementation. Important physical outputs and outcomes were regularly
monitored through a Management Information System (MIS). Early on, monitoring failed
to identify a number of issues because of problems with the indictors being used. The
QALP-2 noted that at the time, the project had no indicators disaggregated by social group
or gender, and performance indicators were poorly defined. After the MTR however, the
system was revitalized and its performance improved owing to the efforts of the new
project management team and to coaching by the Bank team during supervision missions.
31.     The third party M&E consultants conducted a baseline survey, and two (midterm
and final) impact analysis reports in 2010 and 2015. The combined sample size of these
two reports comprised of data for 25,000 households including control groups. The reports
found important progress in key indicators, progress which was corroborated by a number
of specialized assessments that were commissioned by the project. The quality of data
collected by the M&E consultants was further triangulated and verified through field visits,
MIS data, and by employing technological advancements such as GIS (GIS for example,
monitored water quality and Joint Forest Management Committees). Some of the M&E



6
    The time required for payment was reduced from 30-60 days to 3-7 days.




                                                         8
arrangements developed and strengthened by the project (social auditing in JFMCs and
third party supervision consultants for roads) were mainstreamed into GoA systems.
32.     M&E Utilization. The utilization of M&E information was effective and the
implementation feedback mechanism was responsive. Timely information on project
progress was obtained through quarterly and annual reports and project management was
able to make decisions based on the information. Some of the data was used as the basis
for a Geographic Information System (GIS), which the MIS used to track progress on
installations of STWs/LLPs and other field level studies. The two impact analysis reports
were extensively used by project management and Bank supervision and ICRR
preparation teams.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
33.     Social Safeguards. Compliance with social safeguards was satisfactory. The
project triggered Bank safeguard polices on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and
on Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). A social assessment carried out during appraisal
identified social issues that led project design to focus on inclusive service delivery among
other matters. Screening criteria were developed to target Scheduled Tribes and
Scheduled Caste and other vulnerable groups. The consultation strategy was based on free,
prior informed consent to ensure that more than 18 percent of project beneficiaries
belonged to Scheduled Tribes (higher than the state average of 12 percent). The
Resettlement and Participatory Framework was developed to address any adverse impacts
resulting from investments in road sector. No one was displaced and the project remained
in compliance with Bank Social Safeguard Policies throughout implementation.
34.     Environment. Compliance with environmental safeguards was highly satisfactory
and the Environmental Management Framework (EMF) was fully implemented. The
project’s safeguards arrangements shifted the goalpost on monitoring of groundwater
quality across the state and mainstreamed this in the sector. It developed a science and
evidence based strategy for deploying the shallow tube wells through a safe yield of
groundwater study and put in place a strict water quality monitoring system against
arsenic and fluoride under which over 78,000 samples were tested and spatially mapped.
The EMF implementation has led to exemplary best practices such as a state-wide ground
water monitoring system installing piezometers with telemetric digital water level
recorders linked to a central server through GSM network to provide data on ground water
levels on continuous basis for ensuring sustainable ground water use and management.
This is the largest database on groundwater quality for a single state in India. Under the
safeguards arrangements, impact studies were commissioned on the introduction of exotic
carps for minimizing impacts on local fish diversity. It put in place mitigation actions for
ensuring that the wetlands and beels remained unaffected by project interventions. In
addition to implementing the EMF, internal audits and a third party external audit of



                                              9
compliance with safeguards arrangements were undertaken. Together, these kept
management fully and regularly informed about the status of safeguards compliance. The
Environment Management Unit (EMU) was staffed with two technically qualified
consultants supporting the environmental specialist-cum-forest coordinator, who was
responsible for environmental management.
35.     Procurement performance was satisfactory. The risk associated with procurement
was rated moderate during implementation. Because of decentralized procurement and
limited capacity of line agencies, the PCU provided a summary of procurement
manual/guidelines, including a detailed list of frequently asked questions. Procurement
was carried out in accordance with agreed procedures, despite highly decentralized
schemes involving multiple implementing agencies. Transparency was generally solid
with different parties overseeing each other. In spite of the large number of schemes
undertaken, there were very few cases of complaints and these were promptly attended to
by the PCU. Equally important, community participation in procurement was very
effective.
36.    A number of training programs in procurement and contract management were
used. Procurement capacity was built at PIUs as well as at other implementing agencies,
and there were improvements over time in annual post-procurement reviews. The
innovative farmer friendly community procurement model of AACP for irrigation,
mechanization and fisheries sub-component, gives authority of procurement decisions to
the farmer groups. The Bank and the Government of India (GoI) recognized this model
as one of the ‘good practices’ which was published in a document captioned “Innovation
in Development.” The GoI circulated this document to all the states for adoption. The
model also received national and international recognition.
37.     Financial Management was satisfactory. During the initial project implementation
period, the financial management of the project was weak, causing major concerns and
delays. After the new project team’s renewed efforts, the performance of financial
management system improved significantly. The accounting and reporting system
functioned well at state, district and field levels. A three-tier accounting system included
the PCU at the central level, PIUs at the department level and district level for field level
activities. The staffing plan at various levels was well developed during project
preparation and was successful in spite of some delays in filling vacant positions. The
project received the government counterpart funds in a timely manner due to high level
of commitment by the GoA. The flow and release of funds to multiple departments
followed the state level system as well as criteria developed during the project design
stage to meet needs likely to arise during the life of the project. The e-fund transfer and
banking arrangements in the project were well-organized. To ensure efficient and
economical transfer of funds, all accounting centers maintained bank accounts with
branches of one of two nominated banks having a widespread core-banking network in


                                             10
the state, as determined by the PCU. All district level offices of the implementing line
departments and ATMA societies (in some cases at the state level directorate) maintained
accounts in commercial banks. The verification process against the laid-down criteria,
which were strictly followed by the PCU, helped prompt transfer of funds directly to the
bank accounts of the accounting centers. The project consistently complied with the legal
covenants through the timely submission of interim unaudited financial reports (IUFRs)
and external audit reports. The audit reports were clean, and the few issues that were
flagged were quickly resolved.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
38.     Starting April 1, 2015 the twelve ATMAs developed under the project were
supported through GoI-funded regular agricultural extension programs. Support for
shallow tube wells, low lift pumps, and farm implements was provided through the
centrally sponsored scheme Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojna (RKVY). The departments of
agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry continue to provide technical services to
farmers, fishers and livestock rearers through training, demonstrations, field days, and
farmer fairs.
39.     The GoA has submitted a new GoI approved project proposal entitled “Assam
Agricultural Commercialization and Rural Transformation Project” for World Bank
support. The proposed project would further strengthen the institutions that were set up
under this project, scale up a number of its interventions, and expand its scope into
marketing, agribusiness, and value chain development. Road connectivity and market
access in the State is being further improved by the ongoing Bank-funded “Assam State
Roads Project” since April 2012. Funds for continued support to Farmer Producer
Organizations and ground water monitoring have been committed by the ARIAS Society.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
40.     The project objectives were highly relevant to GoI’s National Agricultural Policy
and the Tenth (2002-2007) Five Year Plan (FYP), and continue to remain so for the
Eleventh (2007-2012) and Twelfth (2012-2017) FYP. The objectives also remain
consistent with GoA’s current strategy for reducing rural poverty and increasing income
through upgraded infrastructure and improved physical access to market and social
services by rural population.
41.     The project objectives were highly relevant and complementary to the Bank’s
India Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) 2005-2008, and remained so for the Country
Partnership Strategies (CPSs) of 2009-2012 and 2013-2017. It promoted inclusive
agricultural and rural growth through innovative investments in farms, rural roads and
markets, and effective technology transfer for increased agricultural productivity.


                                           11
42.     The project design was very much in line with GoA’s policy of promoting
decentralized, demand-driven, agricultural extension services and empowering grass-root
level beneficiaries. The project was designed to focus primarily on small and marginal
landholders, landless farmers, and poor fishing communities continue to be among the
poorest of India’s poor. A decentralized extension service (based on a bottom-up
approach) focusing on marginal and small farmers continues to be the core of GoA’s
current policy and, accordingly, confirming the continuing high relevance of the project
design.
43.     Implementation was consistent with GoI’s development priorities and focused on
economic growth and poverty reduction in one of the country’s poorest states, with low
income and high poverty incidence. Project implementation supported GoA’s continuing
policies to enhance the institutional capacity of government departments and community
organizations by mainstreaming improved policies and best practices into their regular
operations. Moreover, implementation is fully consistent with ongoing national and state
policies of consolidating devolution and decentralization.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
44.     The PDO was fully achieved. As shown in summary table below, out of six PDO
level indicators, five exceeded and one substantially achieved their original targets.
                                Summary Table: Achievements of PDO Indicators

      PDO Indicator             Baseline Value           Target            Achievement    Achievement/Target
                                     Indicator 1: Increase in crop yields (t/ha)
     Paddy (dry season)              1.5                    5                      5.5          110%
         Mustard                     0.6                   0.8                     1.1          138%
         Cabbage                      7                    8.5                     10.6         125%
         Cauliflower                 5.6                     7                     9.8          140%
                                  Indicator 2: Increase in fish productivity (t/ha)
            Ponds                   0.485                 2.75                     3.5          127%
            Tanks                    0.85                 2.25                     2.3          102%
            Beels                    0.48                 0.75                     1.6          213%
                                       Indicator 3: Cropping intensity (%)
     Cropping intensity              130                   195                     200          103%
                                       Indicator 4: Crop diversification (%)
     Area under cereals               83                   80                      65            81%
 Area under high value crops          17                   20                      35           175%
                                  Indicator 5: Increase in marketed surplus (%)
     Paddy (dry season)               18                   45                      26.1          58%
           Mustard                    17                   45                      64.5         143%
         Vegetables                   28                   65                      99.5         153%
                                      Indicator 6: Project beneficiaries (No.)
  Total project beneficiaries                            410,000               565,745          138%
 Female project beneficiaries                            82,000                  83,744         102%



                                                        12
45.     Yield increases of all key crops exceeded their targets by between 10 and 40
percent, with yields of high value crops such as mustard and cauliflower increasing the
most (PDO Indicator 1). Also, productivity increases in fisheries exceeded their targets
by between 2 and 113 percent (PDO Indicator 2). Cropping intensity exceeded its target
by 3 percent (PDO Indicator 3) and increases in areas under high value crops (mainly
vegetables and oilseeds) exceeded its target by 75 percent (PDO Indicator 4). Marketed
surpluses for mustard and vegetables exceeded their targets by 43 and 53 percent
respectively (PDO Indicator 5) revealing a strong trend towards diversification into high
value crops. At project completion, the total number of direct project beneficiaries reached
565,745 exceeding its target by 38 percent (PDO Indicator 6). Around 15 percent of direct
project beneficiaries were women.
46.    Of 11 Intermediate Outcome Indicators, eight exceeded, one fully achieved, and
two substantially achieved their original targets. The specific project outcomes achieved
under various interventions are discussed below. The full details are in Section F (a) of
Data Sheet and in Annex 2. A number of key achievements at the component level are
highlighted below.
47.     Component A: Irrigation, Farm Mechanization, Fisheries. The project brought
about important, long-term transformation in target areas by successfully promoting
simple- and yet proven- and cost-effective irrigation and agricultural technologies
including shallow tube wells (STW), low lift pumps (LLP), and targeted farm
mechanization. At project closing, a total of 100,000 STWs were installed in the project
area exceeding its target by 11 percent.7 This brought additional 281,706 ha of land under
assured irrigation (exceeding the target by 11 percent8). This addressed the key constraint
that the farmers were facing in the project area- water shortage during the dry season.
Average paddy yield under drained area reached 4.41 t/ha, exceeding its target by 121
percent. 9 Farm mechanization enabled farmers to save between 16 and 25 days
annually.10
48.    To ensure the long-term sustainability of investments in irrigation and farm
mechanization, the project facilitated the formation of 118,200 Agro-Service Groups




7
    Intermediate Outcome Indicator 1: Installation of 90,000 STWs.
8
  Intermediate Outcome Indicator 2: Area under STWs to reach 225,000 ha; Intermediate Outcome Indicator 3: Area
    to be drained and brought under cultivation 35,000 ha.
9
  Intermediate Outcome Indicator 4: Productivity of paddy during wet season to reach 2 t/ha).
10
     Under farm mechanization support scheme, 2,000 tractors and 1,100 tillers power were provided to farmers.



                                                          13
(ASGs). At project completion, 83 percent of AGSs were functioning financially
sustainable achieving the target by 98 percent.11
49.     Micro watershed drainage support schemes supported floodplain communities in
restoring natural drainage lines and reducing water logging and crop losses. This brought
nearly 32,000 ha of previously unused areas under cultivation, and provided farming
communities with significant opportunities to improve their livelihoods and income.
50.     The project demonstrated semi-intensive fish cultivation covering around 6,125
ha. The productivity increase was phenomenal. Average productivity in ponds increased
from 0.5 tons/ha to 3.5 tons/ha. About 3,200 fish farmer’s groups were established with
more than 72,000 members. All project beneficiaries under ponds, community tanks, and
beels schemes reported increased productivity, exceeding their target by 28 percent.12
51.     The project established, first time in India, a statewide comprehensive online
groundwater monitoring system to prevent overexploitation and to better manage ground
water and also introduced a mandatory groundwater testing system for arsenic, fluoride,
iron, and hydrocarbon in water samples. The project also facilitated the enactment of the
Assam Fish Seed Act (2005) and its Rules (2010) aimed to improve quality standards in
fish seed production and marketing by enforcing regulatory measures.
52.     The project has pioneered a highly innovative community-procurement system
with unique procurement process that not only enhanced community role in procurement
decision making, but also brought in the economies of scale that enabled beneficiary
farmers to buy pumps at rates cheaper than the market rates without compromising on the
quality. The GoA has mainstreamed this process in their programs.
53.     Component B: Agriculture Extension Services and Market Chain Development.
The project established the new Agriculture Technology Management Agencies
(ATMAs) in 12 districts with training facilities for farmers, extension workers, and local
public officials. Under ATMAs, an estimated 590,000 farmers adopted new and improved
agricultural technologies. More than half of the farmers, who participated in ATMA
demonstrations adopted the new technologies fully achieving the project target.13 Based
on the success of ATMAs, the GoA designated ARIAS Society as the nodal agency for
oversight of the entire ATMA program in Assam, including 14 ATMAs set up under the
centrally sponsored scheme funded by GoI (see para 75 for more discussions on ATMA).




11
     Intermediate Outcome Indicator 5: 85% of all ASGs to achieve financial sustainability.
12
     Intermediate Outcome Indicator 6: Fishery groups reporting increased fish productivity by 70-85%.
13
    Intermediate Outcome Indicator 7: Farmers participating in ATMA demonstrations adopt at least 50% of
technologies demonstrated.


                                                           14
54.      The project financed production of 9,000 tons of certified and truthfully labeled
seeds of self-pollinated crops in the demonstration plots, significantly improving seed
replacement rates in the ATMA districts. Other notable achievements include supply of
pure- and cross-breed bucks and boars to genetically upgrade goats and pigs. ATMA also
facilitated farmers’ access to credit through Kisan Credit Cards scheme.
55.     The project supported development and expansion of an Artificial Insemination
(AI) program to increase the productivity of dairy animals in Assam, which resulted in
birth of 789,000 calves, where crossbred females achieved an average milk productivity
five times higher than local/non-descript cows. After initial trials of private-sector based
IA service (Gopal Mitras) with mixed results, AI services were rendered sustainably
through the West Assam Milk Union Producers Cooperative Limited (WAMUL). The
project facilitated the management takeover of the originally defunct dairy plant of
WAMUL by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), which led to revival of the
plant and a 12-fold increase in formal milk procurement.14
56.     The project supported the formation of 1,300 livestock producer groups.15 These
comprised some 18,000 beneficiaries, enhancing their access to informal and formal
markets, and input supply services. It made a significant contribution to market
development particularly for the dairy sector. The dairy producer groups helped farmers
sell their products at higher prices. At project closing, the number of well-functioning
Dairy Cooperatives Societies (DCSs) reached 294 exceeding its target by 68 percent.16
57.     The project also supported formation of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs)
in five districts with a total membership of 17,000 farmers. The FPOs were linked to
wholesale distributors of agriculture inputs, including fish feed, thus facilitating
competitive access of FPO members to input markets. The project supported
establishment of a Pilot Enterprise Development Grant Fund (PEDGF), under which
some 491 commodity focused marketing groups were mobilized, market extension
trainings were provided to understand market dynamics, price fluctuation and new
opportunities. The project helped strengthen the capacities in the Forest Department (FD)




14 Between 2008 and 2014, the daily procurement of fresh milk through WAMUL increased from 2,700 liters/day to

32,000 liters/day.

15 This includes formation of 312 dairy groups (Dairy Cooperative Societies), 361 MPI, 250 groups for pigs and 300
groups for goat.
16Intermediate Outcome Indicator 8: The number of DCSs that collect at least 100 liters of milk per day one year after
their formation to reach 175.




                                                          15
and participating communities for applying new and innovative approaches for
community forestry.
58.     Component C: Development of Rural Roads and Local Market Infrastructure. The
project improved the connectivity between 1,423 villages and nearby centers by
upgrading and rehabilitating 1,793 kilometers of rural roads. At project completion, the
traffic density on improved roads has increased by more than three times compared to
baseline (exceeding the target by 6 percent17) and average travel time of a motorized
vehicle on upgraded and rehabilitated roads has reduced by 41 percent. This rendered
significant economic and social benefits to large number of local populations by
improving farmers’ connectivity to market and providing rural residents with better access
to health, education, and other social services.
59.     The project’s road rehabilitation activities leveraged the GoA to significantly
increase the regular budget for road maintenance. 18 Though delayed, the project also
helped the GoA establish a dedicated Road Maintenance Fund and facilitated the
establishment of the Assam State Road Board – an apex body for policy making and
managing externally funded road projects. The Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy
that was prepared as a part of project preparation was moreover mainstreamed statewide
in the road sector. With project support, the Road Research Laboratory Facility (recently
reconstituted as the Assam Road Research and Training Institute) was revived and is
currently playing important roles in training and capacity building.
60.     The project also upgraded 93 wholesale markets and haats, which resulted in
increase in traded volume by 66 percent – substantially exceeding the target of 27
percent.19 The number of traders participating in the markets increased by 51 percent. The
lease values of markets have increased by 79 percent.
3.3 Efficiency
61.     The overall economic efficiency of the project was found to be high. Costs and
benefits were estimated at 2014 prices with a 12 percent opportunity cost of capital
(Annex 3). At appraisal, the project was expected to yield a Financial Internal Rate of
Return (FIRR) of 19.9 percent and an Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 21.4
percent by completion. Based on data generated by large scale independent impact
assessment studies conducted in 2010 and March 2015 (which included more than 25,000
respondents), FIRR was calculated at 22.2 percent and EIRR at 24.7 percent at completion.



17Intermediate Outcome Indicator 10: The traffic density on completed roads to reach 285.
18From 2004 to 2011, the GoA spent INR9,903.4 million on the maintenance of roads in the state, which is 89 percent
higher than the target budget agreed with the Bank at project appraisal.

19   Indicator 11: Increase in trading volume of improved markets by 30% against baseline value.


                                                           16
62.     These results were based on very conservative assumptions regarding benefits. In
the agricultural models, for example, it was assumed that the increased cropping intensity
by participants would result in reduced time for previous off-farm wage earning activities,
and control group benefits were increased to include such wages. Furthermore, no attempt
was made to quantify benefits arising from multiplier effects, downstream job creation
(e.g. in food processing), or for wider financial or economic benefits arising from
improved access roads, beyond those specifically affecting producers. It is also important
to note that the actual economic efficiency of the project is much higher than the above
estimates given that 95 percent of project beneficiaries were landless, marginal and small
farmers, who benefited with an average net income increase equivalent to around 40
percent of 2014 poverty line. This clearly has a significant poverty reduction impact
because of distribution effects of net benefits (see paras 69 and 70).
63.     The financial analysis was conducted comparing the effects of drainage, irrigated
agriculture, livestock, fisheries, mechanization (agriculture machinery rental), and
physical infrastructure on farm income. These activities accounted for 86 percent of Bank
expenditure. Results show that the project enabled farmers to generate substantial
financial benefits. Average farm household incomes among participants in agricultural
activities increased by 57 percent (drainage) and 39 percent (irrigation and technical
services) compared to the control group. Members of farmer groups receiving tractors
increased their incomes by 32 percent over the other irrigation and technical services
recipients.
64.     Significant improvements were also noted in both cropping intensity, as a result
of the expansion of off-season cropping, and in the proportion of high value crops grown
(principally vegetables).
65.     The economic analysis was carried out to assess the project’s economic
performance. Prices were adjusted through the use of parity prices (for rice) and through
Standard Conversion Factors (SCF) for non-traded goods. The analysis used the same
models as those developed for financial performance. These were then aggregated for the
entire project taking all project costs into account. Increased productivity and
diversification into higher value crops were the principal benefits.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
66.     The PDO was highly relevant to the development priorities of GoI and GoA by
supporting productivity growth and competitiveness of agriculture sector dominated by
marginal and small farmers, and landless. The project fully achieved its PDO as
demonstrated by increased agricultural productivity, more diversified agriculture, and
greater market access by farmers on a sustainable basis in the project areas. All project
outcome indicators as measured by higher crop yields, higher cropping intensity,


                                            17
enhanced crop diversification, and increased marketable surplus have been either met or
exceeded.
67.    The project was also instrumental in bringing about major policy reforms in
Assam’s agriculture and rural infrastructure sectors, and made significant contributions in
developing and strengthening new institutions like ATMAs, farmer groups, and producer
organizations. It also successfully mobilized local communities and built social capital
which is crucial for the long-term sustainability of project benefits.
68.    In view of highly relevant PDO, robust project design, effective implementation,
and overall efficiency, the overall project outcome is rated as Satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
69.     Poverty Impacts. While the overriding objective of the project was to stimulate
growth in Assam’s agricultural economy, the project interventions were purposefully pro-
poor, and by design focused primarily on small and marginal landholders, poor fishing
communities, and the landless farmers. Of total 566,000 project beneficiaries directly
participated in the project, 17 percent were landless farmers, 47 percent were marginal
farmers (with less than 1 ha of land), and 31 percent were small farmers (with less than 2
ha of land). Participating farmers increased their income significantly more than control
groups. And this significantly decreased the proportion of household expenditures that
need to be devoted to purchasing food or paying for education.
70.     The average estimated net income gain per beneficiary household was about 40
percent of the estimated household poverty line in 2014 demonstrating a potentially very
strong poverty reducing impact of the project. Moreover, more than 40 percent of all
beneficiaries have had an impact of at least 66 percent of the estimated 2014 household
poverty line suggesting a considerable improvement in living conditions as a result of the
project. The project has therefore made a clear, positive and significant change in the
income distribution pattern of the project participants. Other non-monetary benefits of the
project include improvement in household food security status. Likewise, the gains in the
value of household own consumption and food stocks were found to be considerable,
especially for the poorest. Annex 3 provides more details of project activities’ impact on
household welfare.
71.    Gender. Although no specific gender development strategy or action plan was
developed for the project, the project provided extensive support to activities in which
women were predominantly involved: 56 percent of the beneficiaries of fisheries activities
and 43 percent of the beneficiaries of livestock activities were women. The project also



                                            18
ensured that women were adequately represented in the community procurement and
social audit committees.
72.     Social Development. Traditionally socially excluded groups accessed project
benefits across all sectors. Almost 50 percent of direct beneficiaries belonged to scheduled
castes, scheduled tribes, and other disadvantaged communities. Screening criteria for
selection of beneficiaries to enhance social inclusion were adopted across all sectors. The
fishery sub-component rendered benefits to a significant proportion of vulnerable
communities. 36 percent of the beneficiaries were small farmers and 27 percent were
members of scheduled tribes. In livestock sector, 54 percent of the beneficiaries were
members of scheduled caste and scheduled tribe and other backward communities. The
local communities also built significant social capital through social mobilization
activities such as forming of producer’s groups across various sectors.
73.     The institutional maturity analysis indicates that local institutions have sustained
their membership and farmers have increased their income, enabling them to utilize
additional resources for other social needs such as improved housing, clothing, education,
health care, and diversified diets.
74.      The amendment of Fishery Rule 1953, which was approved with direct project
facilitation, has had major implications for social development, protecting the interests of
women and other vulnerable members, and the rights of cooperatives of fishers.
(b) Institutional Change and Strengthening
75.      The project has had a significant impact on institutional development. The
establishment of ATMAs in 12 districts emerged as an effective and participatory means
of transferring technologies to farmers in response to the needs they articulate. The model
established by ATMA: (i) decentralized planning, funding and implementation of
technology dissemination to district, block and village level; (ii) institutionalized farmer
and other stakeholder representation on the ATMA Governing Board and the block-level
Farmer Advisory Committee (FAC) to shape and approve extension programs; (iii)
promoted convergence of separate extension activities of the different line departments
into a single integrated system covering crops, horticulture, livestock, fisheries and
marketing; and (iv) organized farmers into commodity or common interest groups. The
ATMA model has proven to be acceptable and cost-effective for making state line
department staff responsive to farmers’ needs. Based on the success of AACP ATMAs,
GoA designated SPD as the Nodal Officer and ARIAS as the Nodal Agency for oversight
of the entire ATMA program in Assam, including 14 ATMAs set up under the centrally
sponsored scheme funded by GoI. It is also important to note that most of ATMA
activities are currently focused on development and dissemination of new agricultural
technologies aimed at increasing yields and whereas advisory services in areas of value
addition are still evolving.


                                             19
76.     Another important institutional innovation was the enhanced role assumed by
communities in decision making concerning procurement. At the beginning of the project,
a centralized procurement of irrigation pumps using International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) made little progress owing to a lack of interest on the part of qualified bidders, and
on the part of farmers who were unfamiliar with the brands of pump being offered. A
number of farmers who did purchase a pump during this early phase of the project reported
poor after sale service. A new community procurement process was designed to allow
farmer groups to choose pump sets from a wider range of pre-selected alternatives listed
in a databank. The databank was drawn up through a competitive selection process giving
due attention to farmer preferences. It listed each pump offered and its price. With
manufacturers of varying capacities being allowed to apply, the pump sets on offer
included a choice of 90 different models and 46 suppliers. In view of assured bulk orders,
suppliers offered significantly lower prices than for ICB procurement. An audit process
ensured timely delivery and installation of pump sets. Farmers also received better after-
sale service because the pumps were delivered by local dealers. Based on the success of
this approach, community procurement has been mainstreamed into the regular operations
of Departments of Agriculture and Fisheries.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
77.    The project had a significant if not altogether unanticipated demonstration effect.
Seeing the productivity gains by direct beneficiary farmers, an additional 9,000 farmers
adopted new fisheries technologies in 21 districts without direct project assistance. These
adopter farmers reported productivity gains ranging from 3 to 5 tons per ha under
individual fish farms.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low.
78.     The overall risk to development outcome is assessed as Low. The investments
made in irrigation and farm mechanization are based on well-tested and simple
technologies that were implemented through farmers groups to ensure long-term
sustainability. ATMAs are solidly established and have proven to be an effective vehicle
for technology transfer.
79.     An assessment of the sustainability of community level institutions that were
organized through the project and which received support for at least three years was
carried out by M&E consultants. The assessment found that more than 95 percent of
community investments had either exceeded or continued to meet end-of-project
productivity targets. And some 93 percent of the beel development committees, continued
to function and maintain and operate the assets. The continued smooth operation and




                                             20
maintenance of assets and growth in productivity will be crucial for long-term
sustainability of project benefits.
80.     The GoA demonstrated its strong commitment to the sustainability of road
maintenance by increasing road maintenance funds significantly during implementation.20
The Public Works Department is responsible for the maintenance of upgraded and
rehabilitated roads through its regular budget. It has also established a dedicated Road
Maintenance Fund.
81.     Rural markets constructed under the project have been handed over to the
concerned village panchayats for their maintenance. The project also facilitated the
constitution of Market Management and Development Committees in every market for
transparent and efficient management. 10 percent of the annual lease income proceeds of
the markets are kept in a bank account for maintenance.
82.    No negative environmental impacts attributable to the project are expected to
unfold in the future. The comprehensive ground water monitoring system established
under the project will be instrumental in ensuring that groundwater is not overexploited.
83.     Ownership of the project activities by government agencies is strong and a
substantial part of project approaches and achievements have been mainstreamed into line
department operations, including ATMA, the community procurement model for pumps,
and a statewide ground water monitoring system.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.
84.     The Bank team ensured that the project design incorporated important lessons
from the relevant experience of Bank projects elsewhere in India and globally. The
diagnostic works and technical solutions identified were highly appropriate and the
rationale for Bank intervention was firmly established. The project was designed to
increase crop and livestock productivity, and to promote diversification into high value
commodities. These objectives were identified as priorities both within the Bank’s CPS
and by the GoI and the GoA. The design featured well-tested, simple, and appropriate




20
   During 2004-2011, GoA spent INR 3303.90 million (against the target of INR 1725.0 million) for road maintenance
in the project districts, and spent a total of INR 9093.0 million (against the target of INR 5250.0 million) for road
maintenance in the entire state.




                                                        21
technologies such as STWs, agricultural machinery and farm implements as well as
mobilization of local communities and farmer organizations to promote their use.
85.     Promoting ATMAs as the main vehicle for improved delivery of agricultural
extension services, and focusing on improvement and rehabilitation of rural roads, bridges,
and markets with high economic growth potential were other elements of project design.
Given the complexity of the project, covering multiple sectors and wide geographic areas,
the implementation capacity needs were somewhat underestimated, and this led to initial
delays. The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was Satisfactory.


(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.
86.     The Bank team carried out 17 missions and invested 295.69 staff weeks in
supporting the project. The Bank team consisted of task team leaders, staff, and
consultants based at both HQ and in New Delhi office. The technical skill mix of various
project team members included agriculture, agricultural marketing, irrigation, fisheries,
forestry, agricultural machinery, social mobilization, institutional development, financial
management, procurement, and social and environmental safeguards.
87.    The Bank task team leaders maintained effective working relationships with the
implementing agencies. Missions were proactive, flexible, and identified issues that arose
during implementation in a timely manner, providing practical recommendations and
technical solutions which are well-documented in the aide-memoires.
88.     The Bank’s initial missions started a bit late, and a few issues which arose early
on were resolved only slowly, such as the revision to the percentage of matching grants
18 months into implementation. However, the Bank missions gradually took on key issues
to expedite project implementation and the later missions increasingly focused on
enhancing development impacts and post-project sustainability. The overall Bank
implementation support and review missions, particularly during the post-MTR phase,
provided strong technical, managerial and fiduciary support, which made significant
positive contribution towards achievement of project results and enhancing development
impact.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
89.    Overall, the Bank team undertook robust work at entry and the project design was
found to be sound. During implementation, the team was proactive, identifying issues in
a timely manner and facilitating appropriate solutions. Given the Bank’s performance in
ensuring quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory and its performance for supervision is



                                            22
rated as Satisfactory as well, the ICRR team rates the Bank’s overall performance as
Satisfactory.
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
90.    The GoA was highly committed to the project and exhibited strong ownership,
which was evident both during preparation and implementation. The GoA provided the
counterpart funds in the amount of US$55.05 million (98 percent of the initial
commitment) on a timely basis. To effectively support the project implementation and
ensure project’s long-term development impact, the GoA issued a series of ten policy and
legal documents which were critically important for the project. Overall, the GoA’s
performance is rated as Satisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
91.     The Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services (ARIAS) Society was the
central project implementing agency and was responsible for the overall management and
coordination of the project. The PCU under the ARIAS Society coordinated the activities
of the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) at eight participating line departments and
agencies, and also provided administrative support, and technical backstopping in areas
such as marketing, decentralized extension and supply chain development, and
computerized information systems.
92.      The progress reports and other documents the PCU prepared reporting on issues
and developments which had emerged during the course of implementation were accurate
and of good quality, and highly useful to the periodic Bank missions sent to supervise the
project. Some initial delays experienced early on during implementation were attributable
to the limited capacity of PIU staff.
93.     The participating line departments and agencies responsible for implementing
their respective components and subcomponents through project PIUs performed well.
These included the departments of agriculture (DOA), animal husbandry and veterinary
(AH&VD); dairy development (DD), fisheries (DOF); environment and forests (DOEF),
public works roads (PWRD), West Assam Milk Producers’ Cooperative Union Limited
(WAMUL), and Assam Agricultural University.
94.    The line departments and agencies demonstrated enthusiastic commitment during
implementation, and their performance was satisfactory. Some line departments and
agencies experienced procurement challenges owing to weak capacity and high turnover



                                            23
of trained procurement staff. The PCU addressed this issue by providing training in Bank
procurement rules and procedures to the incoming replacement staff. Proactive oversight
on the part of the PCU helped to ensure that no case of questionable procurement or
corruption arose during implementation. Financial management was sound. Overall, the
performance of the implementation agency was rated as Satisfactory.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

95.     Based on the performance ratings of the GoA and the central implementing agency
(ARIAS Society) and eight PIUs, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as
Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

96.     The key lessons learned from the project which are likely to be relevant to the
design and implementation of similar projects in India and elsewhere can be summarized
as follows:
   Identifying the most important constraints and addressing them through well-tested
    simple technical solutions proved to be the key factor for project success. The lack
    of irrigation water during the dry season was quickly identified as the principal
    constraint limiting the productivity of crops and the potential of crop production to
    diversify. The project effectively pursued this potential through simple technical
    solutions, supported by improved extension services and rural infrastructure.
   Strong, high-level political commitment on the part of the Government of Assam
    was instrumental to the success of the project. Ownership of the project and political
    commitment to its objectives made it a flagship of the chief ministers and secretaries
    of Assam. It also greatly facilitated the enlistment of highly competent and proactive
    project management, particularly during the second half of implementation.
   Implementing project activities through government agencies can advance major
    policy reforms and mainstream innovations within and throughout public sector
    institutions. By effectively embedding project activities within the operations of line
    departments, the project was able to promote sector-wide policy improvements and
    reforms. These took place in areas like agricultural extension services, road
    maintenance, and fisheries development and led to a number of project innovations
    becoming incorporated into the routine practices of government agencies – including
    Assam’s state-wide ground water monitoring system. The PMU also housed middle
    to senior managers from all implementing agencies, who liaised with specific officers



                                            24
    in these implementing agencies. This proved a potent coordination mechanism among
    multiple agencies.
   The innovative community procurement model was a key factor contributing to the
    success of the project. The project pioneered a highly innovative community
    procurement system using a unique process that not only enhanced participating
    communities’ role in decision making, but that also brought in economies of scale that
    enabled beneficiary farmers to buy pumps at lower than market rates without
    compromising quality. The GoA has since mainstreamed this process in its programs
    and the model has received international recognition.
   ATMA has proven an effective model for developing and disseminating new
    agricultural technologies but now its role should be extended to promoting value
    chain development activities. Most current ATMA activities are focused on
    enhancing farm-level productivity, and on narrowing yield gaps between progressive
    and average farmers. Over time this will need to expand more into agricultural
    commercialization and value chain development, with extension services tailored to
    farmer organizations and agribusinesses.
   Comprehensive groundwater monitoring system is an important policy tool for
    environmental and economic management of irrigation systems. The groundwater
    monitoring system developed under the project has immediate policy applications for
    the Department of Agriculture to prevent groundwater over-exploitation and make
    strategic decisions on future investments in the use of groundwater based irrigation
    systems, such as determining the density of STWs as well as groundwater recharge
    structures specific to different hydro-geological regions in the state. The system has
    statewide coverage, is well-integrated into the Government system and could be used
    as an example to inform and motivate other States to adopt similar systems.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The GoA and its implementing agencies reviewed the report and concurred with its main
findings. A summary of the Borrower’s ICR is provided in Annex 5




                                            25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

        (a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                Actual/Latest Percentage
                                              Appraisal Estimate
         Components                                                               Estimate        of
                                                (US$ millions)
                                                                                (US$ millions) Appraisal

                                  Original at      Additional          Total
                                   Appraisal        Financing

Component 1: Investment Grant
                                         59.79            38.61         98.40          114.36   116%
Scheme
Component 2: Agricultural
Services and Market Chain                29.32            14.29         43.61           35.44      81%
Development
Component 3: Infrastructure
                                        103.26            45.33        148.59          136.76      92%
Development
           Total Baseline Cost          192.37            98.23        290.60          286.56   98.61%

Physical Contingencies                     2.15           (2.15)         0.00            0.00      0.00

Price Contingencies                      19.81          (19.81)          0.00            0.00      0.00

            Total Project Costs         214.33            76.27        290.60          286.56   98.61%
Front-end fee PPF                         0.00             0.00          0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00             0.00          0.00            0.00
    Total Financing Required            214.33            76.27        290.60          286.56


      Total expenditure includes actual expenditure up to January 31, 2015 and expected expenditure
 *
     by end of project closing.

          (a) Financing

                                                                     Actual/Latest Percentage
        Source of       Type of         Appraisal Estimate
                                                                       Estimate     of Appraisal
         Funds        Cofinancing         (US$ millions)
                                                                     (US$ millions)    Target

                                    Original at Additional
                                                           Total
                                    appraisal Financing

      Borrower                        19.97       12.50      32.47       33.47          103%
      Local
                                      40.36       13.77      54.13       62.33          115%
      Communities
      International
      Development
                                     154.00       50.00     204.00      190.76          94%
      Association
      (IDA)
     * US$ 10 Million IDA Credit cancelled in Dec2013, Effective Total IDA=US$ 194 Million




                                                   26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1: Investment Grant Scheme
1.   The performance of this component is satisfactory. Various outputs of
Component 1 are summarized in this table.
      Interventions                                            Unit           Project   Achievement
                                                                              Target
 Component 1 : Investment Grant Scheme
A. Irrigation Development
a Assured irrigation developed through:

i     Shallow tube well irrigated area                         Hectare        225,000   250,000
ii    Low lift pump irrigated area                             Hectare        44,000    38,050
iii   Flow irrigation scheme irrigated area                    Hectare        NT*       250
iv    Sprinkler irrigated area                                 Hectare        NT        100
v     Solar power irrigated area                               Hectare        NT        30
b     Farm power created                                       Horse          NT        477,472
                                                               power
c Agriculture service group mobilised                          Number         110,000   115,220
d Targeted beneficiaries reached                               Number         330,000   351,867
B Farm Mechanization
a Agriculture service groups mobilised for tractor s            Number        1,815     2,149
b Agriculture service groups mobilised for power tillers        Number        1,500     1,084
c Targeted beneficiaries reached                                Number        24,000    26,932
d Farmers trained in operation and maintenance of farm Number                 NT        7,850
  machinery
e Farm power created                                            Horse         NT        46,371
                                                                power
f Farmers groups availing bank loans                            Number        NT        2,131
g Bank loans availed by the groups                              Million INR   NT        353.22
h Hours of tractor use                                          Hours/year    750       914
C Micro-Watershed Drainage
a Farmer group mobilised                                        Number        NT        89
b Area made available for cultivation                           Hectare       35,000    31,706
c Targeted farm families reached                                Number        26250     24,683
d Drainage line cleared                                         Km            NT        276.78
e Corpus fund generated for maintenance                         Million INR   NT        8.18
D Fish Production
a Farmer ponds rehabilitated for semi intensive fish production Hectare       3,300     3,064
b Community tanks developed                                     Hectare       800       761
c Beels developed for low intensity fish production             Hectare       1,700     1,760
d Integrated fish farming demonstrations organized              Hectare       NT        540
e Groups mobilised                                              Number        NT        3162
f Fish farmer trainings organised                               Number        NT        41,738
g Fish farmers exposure visits organised                        Number        NT        185
h Fish farmers adopting demonstrated technologies               Number        NT        8,843
i Area covered by adopter fish farmers                          Hectare       NT        546
      *NT= No Targets were fixed because these interventions were demand-driven.




                                                   27
Subcomponents: Irrigation Development, Farm Mechanization and Micro-
Watershed Drainage
2.       Irrigation development significantly improved dry season cultivation, leading to
all around productivity growth, increased crop intensification, and diversification of the
production system. At the end of the project, target values have either been met or
exceeded. There has been a significant increase in crop productivity (dry season paddy
productivity by 267 percent, vegetables productivity by 62 percent), and significant
diversification of area from cereals to high value crops (from 17 percent of area under
high value crops at baseline to 35 percent of area at end of project). Assured irrigation is
playing a key role in the adoption of improved technology and crop cultivation practices.
Project beneficiaries with assured irrigation recorded a yield of 5.5 tons paddy per ha in
the dry season, compared to the control group with 2.2 tons per ha. Yields of vegetables
and mustard was higher in the project area than in the control group area. The project
created an additional assured irrigation potential of about 288,430 ha, about 32 percent of
the state’s assured irrigated area. 21 The expansion in irrigated area took place using
shallow tube wells (STWs), micro low lift pumps (LLPs), and piloting of micro and flow
irrigation. Although the irrigation program primarily targeted dry season cultivation of
paddy, it had an impact on the wet season cultivation as well. The irrigation provided
critical supplemental irrigation during the dry spells that normally occur during this time.
Productivity of the wet season paddy under the project area was 4.4 tons per ha, compared
to 3.6 tons per ha for the corresponding control group. The project also successfully
demonstrated the use of solar power as an alternative energy source for powering
irrigation pumps in Assam. 115,220 agro service groups were established under the
project, well over the target of 110,000 groups. 351,867 direct project beneficiaries
maintain these investments.
3.      Farm mechanization had a significant impact on multiple cropping in the areas
opened up by irrigation development. Cropping intensity increased by between 130 and
200 percent. Mechanization resulted in the timely completion of land preparation
activities and sowing, resulting in a time savings of between 16 and 25 days compared to
control groups. Together with irrigation, farm mechanization also facilitated crop
diversification. For instance, with the use of tractors and irrigation pumps, the proportion
of high value crops increased from 4 to 40 percent among beneficiary groups. The project
promoted 3,233 agro service group (ASGs) by providing tractors (2,149 against the target
of 1,650) and power tillers (1,084 against the target of 1,500), reaching out to 26,932
(target 24,000) direct beneficiaries. The project helped enable these ASGs to obtain



21
     Source – Agriculture Department, GoA




                                             28
commercial bank credit with which to access project grants (INR 353.20 million
commercial bank loan was facilitated). The project also undertook systematic capacity
building through training programs on operation and maintenance of farm machinery and
implements. 85 percent of the ASGs are now operating as financially sustainable business
enterprises.
4.      Micro-watershed drainage brought 31,706 ha of the target 35,000 ha of
waterlogged area under cultivation. As part of micro-watershed improvement activities,
planning, training and mobilization raised awareness and increased cash and labor
contributions by farmers, leading to successful removal of vegetation and silt from the
existing collector and main drains. The project also undertook need based restoration and
repair of drains and culverts. At project completion, 277 km of drains were cleared,
benefitting 24,683 farm families. All of the treated area has been brought under cultivation.
The average productivity of wet season paddy was 4.4 tons per ha, and that of mustard
was 1.1 tons. The project formed 89 micro-watershed groups who have generated a corpus
of INR8.18 million to maintain these drainage lines. Sustaining reclamation benefits
through continued maintenance of drains is essential.
Significant changes
5.      As per project design, the financing of irrigation development involved a project
grant covering 30 percent, beneficiary contribution of 20 percent cash, and 50 percent
credit through commercial bank loan. Although GoA supported the objective of reducing
direct subsidies to farmers at project negotiations, they had expressed apprehension over
the proposed 30 percent grant vis-à-vis 70 percent grant that was provided under the
earlier project (ARIASP). It was therefore agreed during the negotiations that the
proportion of grant would be reviewed after 12 months of implementation. After 18
months the project was able to provide only 470 irrigation pumps against the target of
6,170. In September 2006, the Bank agreed to raise the grant to 50 percent with the
balance 50 percent contributed by the beneficiary as cash while dispensing with the
mandatory commercial bank linkage.
Subcomponents
6.      Fish Production. The fisheries subcomponent covered 6,125 ha of the target
6,350 ha of water spread area under improved fish farming in various categories of farmer
ponds, community tanks, and beels.22 The project demonstrated semi intensive cultivation
of fisheries in the state on a large scale. A total of 3,162 fish farmer groups have been
mobilized with a membership of 72,184 beneficiaries. Development of farmer and



22
     Oxbow lake



                                             29
community managed water bodies, supplemented by demonstrations, capacity building,
and technical support and advice by NGOs resulted in overwhelming gains through this
subcomponent. In farmer ponds productivity increased from 0.5 ton per ha at the baseline
to 3.5 ton per ha – an increase of 600 percent over baseline, and 113 percent over control.
In community tanks the productivity has increased from 0.9 ton per ha to 2.3 ton per ha –
an increase of 156 percent. In beel groups the productivity increased from 0.5 ton per ha
to 1.6 ton per ha – an increase of 220 percent over the baseline.
7.     The project also piloted a fish based farming system approach by integrating fish
farming with livestock (pig-cum-fish farming), horticulture crops on bunds, and paddy-
cum-fish farming, on 540 ha. The pilot involved some 3,000 farmers. Fish productivity
increased by 3.45 ton/ha in pig-cum-fish farming, by 3.2 ton/ha by integrating horticulture,
and by 1.6 ton/ha under paddy-cum-fish farming.
8.     Adoption by beneficiary farmers. The intensification of fish production, with a one
off grant from the project, was aimed at embedding the technology into the existing
farming systems. As a result, these producers have generated sufficient savings for
meeting the working capital needs in
the subsequent seasons, and directly
engaged with the improved technology
(see graph). At the end of project
assessment, all project beneficiaries
under farmer ponds and beels have
reported increased fish productivity in
subsequent years (against the target of
85 percent beneficiaries for farmer ponds and 70 percent beneficiaries for beels). Under
community tanks, 96 percent of the community tank beneficiaries reported increased fish
productivity in the subsequent seasons (target 80 percent).
9.      Adoption by non-beneficiary farmers. After witnessing the productivity gains
experienced by the beneficiary farmers, 8,843 non-beneficiary farmers adopted the
demonstrated technologies in 21 districts without project assistance. These adopter
farmers reported productivity gains ranging from 3 to 5 tons per ha under individual fish
ponds. These encouraging results have attracted the attention of financial institutions.
Commercial banks in Assam have started to support these adopter farmers with bank
loans, and 435 non-beneficiary farmers were sanctioned loans amounting to INR63.50
million. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has
started to provide soft loans (interest rate @ 5 to 6 percent per annum) for the initiative,
and 50 non-beneficiary farmers have received loans amounting to INR2.50 million from
the NABARD scheme.




                                             30
10.     The project provided and facilitated a large number of training and capacity
building programs. In all, 41,738 fish farmers received training on packages of improved
fish farming practices, 185 fish farmers were taken on exposure visits to West Bengal and
Andhra Pradesh. 1,159 DoF officers were trained within and outside the state, and 23
officers participated in international exposure visits and study tours to Thailand, Vietnam,
Indonesia, China, and Bangladesh.
Policy initiatives, institutional development and capacity building
11.      The project established a statewide comprehensive online monitoring system for
the sustainable use of groundwater, whereby investments in groundwater irrigation are
linked to groundwater levels to prevent overexploitation of groundwater resources
(http://59.90.201.12:50005/webdata, with login and password). This system assesses the
impact of development of groundwater irrigation and guides planning for future
groundwater management. For example, the system would enable the Department of
Agriculture to make strategic decisions about future investments in the use of groundwater
based irrigation systems. This decision making will include determining the density of
STWs as well as groundwater recharge structures specific to different hydro-geological
regions. It is the first time that a real time system has been installed on such a large scale
in India.
12.      GoA has taken initiatives to bring together the various departments handling
irrigation water. Towards this end, state and district level coordination committees have
been constituted for future planning of irrigation resources in the state, including
groundwater resources. Apart from this, GoA has recently enacted the Assam Ground
Water Control and Regulations Act 2012, with the Irrigation Department as the nodal
agency for enforcing this act. The rules for the act not yet formulated and a wider
consultation on different aspects of regulation and evidence based decision making for
use of groundwater is necessary.
13.     The project undertook mandatory groundwater testing for the presence of arsenic,
fluoride, iron, and hydrocarbon in water samples. Of 77,745 water samples tested, 13 bore
wells had arsenic and 77 had fluoride above the permissible limits. In villages where the
water samples were found to have higher than the permissible limit of these chemicals,
sensitization programs (including caution boards and painting the bore wells in red color)
were undertaken to educate the communities in these locations about the unsuitability of
water from these bore wells for potable purposes.
14.     The project facilitated the enactment of the first of its kind Assam Fish Seed Act
in 2005 and its Rules in 2010 in order to improve the quality of fish seed, maintain quality
standards in fish seed production and marketing by enforcing regulatory measures. The
project also facilitated strengthening of the existing legal framework in the fisheries sector,
the Assam Fisheries Rules of 1953, to provide an enabling environment for the fishing


                                              31
communities to gain long term lease access to their local water bodies. The project
organized legal literacy programs, intensive stakeholder consultations and workshops for
wider dissemination of awareness about the legal changes.
Innovations, good practices and their scaling up
15.     Community procurement. The project pioneered a unique community procurement
process that not only enhanced
community role in procurement decision
making, but that also brought in the
economies of scale that enabled
beneficiary farmers to buy pumps at
prices beneath market rates, without
sacrificing quality. Buyers can also select
the pump models as per group preference.
This not only empowered the community
groups, but also had a substantial positive
impact on the project implementation
speed. Building upon the success and
experience gained from this, GoA has mainstreamed this process in their own programs
as well.
16.      Pilot program of using solar power for running irrigation pump sets. With rising
diesel cost, project piloted alternative energy source
through solar power, first of its kind in the state. This
pilot was taken up in 12 locations, identified based on
the agro climatic conditions, cropping patterns, and
willingness of the farmers to participate. Solar pumps
at all 12 locations have been commissioned. Early
results show that solar power in Assam is adequate for
generating enough power for running water pumps for
irrigation, and the water discharge from the demonstrated water pumps is both satisfactory
and adequate.
17.     Enhanced audit scope for physical verification of community assets. The scope of
external audit was enhanced to include physical verification of assets provided to
community groups under this component. This gave, in such a decentralized program,
additional fiduciary assurance not only on the existence of the assets funded by the project,
but also useful additional qualitative information such as continued use of such assets and
their maintenance, and any diversion of assets for other uses. Key findings from these
audits were: (i) very insignificant (less than 4 percent) diversion of assets, (ii) large
number of irrigation scheme beneficiaries receiving consistent after-sale services from the



                                             32
suppliers (about 4 percent did not receive such services), and (iii) large number of
community groups maintaining records (about 3 percent fisheries groups did not maintain
stock register). These findings reinforce that the project was successful in targeting,
training and capacity building of the communities.




                                          33
Component 2 Agricultural Services and Market Chain Development
18.        The performance of this component is satisfactory. Outputs are summarized here.

             Interventions                                                           Unit          Project   Achievement
                                                                                                   Target
  Component 2: Agricultural Services and Market Chain Development
   A    Farm Advisory Services
     a. ATMAs established and operationalized                                        Number        11        12
      b.     Block Resources Centres set up                                          Number        214       208
      c.     Farmer Advisory Committees operationalized                              Number        123       123
      d.     Block Technology Teams operationalized                                  Number        123       123
      e.     Extension plans (District Agricultural Development Strategies)          Number        11        11
             prepared
      f.     On farm demonstration organised                                         Number        NT*       41757
      g.     Field days organised                                                    Number        NT        6729
      h.     Farmers trained                                                         Number        NT        15354
      i.     Exposure visits organised                                               Number        NT        835
      j.     Farmers covered under technology dissemination activities               Number        NT        814664
      k.     Productivity gain from the demonstrations on paddy                      %             NT        47.83
      l.     Productivity gain from the demonstrations on mustard                    %             NT        52.53
      m.     Productivity gain from the demonstrations on vegetables                 %             NT        36.89
      n.     Certified/Truthfully labelled seed distributed under farmer to farmer   Metric ton    NT        8984.37
             mode
      o.     Pure breed bucks distributed under demonstration programme              Number        NT        3053
      p.     Pure breed boars distributed under demonstration programme              Number        NT        2505
      q.     Cross breed bucks distributed under farmer to farmer mode               Number        NT        4605
      r.     Cross breed boars distributed under farmer to farmer mode               Number        NT        6976
      s.     Farmers adopting demonstrated technologies                              Number        NT        590136
      t.     Area covered by adopter farmers                                         Hectare       NT        159088
      u.     Productivity gain in paddy by adopter farmers                           %             NT        36.77
      v.     Productivity gain in mustard by adopter farmers                         %             NT        38.30
      w.     Productivity gain in vegetables by adopter farmers                      %             NT        22.09
      x.     Farmers facilitated with bank linkages for crop loans                   Number        NT        514540
      y.     Bank credit made available to farmers through Kisan Credit Cards        Million INR   NT        13670.27
      z.     Adaptive research sub-projects implemented                              Number        7         7
  B          Livestock Upgrading
      a.     Gopal mitras trained                                                    Number        166       164
      b.     Breeding bulls procured for Barapeta Bull Mother Farm                   Number        12        12
      c.     Artificial inseminations undertaken                                     Number        900000    802113

      d.     Animal health camps organised                                           Number        2,611     2493
  C          Fish Seed Production
      a.     Improved mini hatcheries set up                                         Number        19        19
      b.     Cage culture units set up                                               Number        20        20
  D          Commodity Marketing
      a.     Farmer Producer Organizations formed                                    Number        25        25
      b.     Marketing groups mobilized                                              Number        NT        491
      c.     Market study tours organized                                            Number        NT        624
      d.     Pilot Enterprise Development Grant Funds provided                       Million INR   NT        4.39
      e.     Dairy Cooperative Societies formed                                      Number        312       312
      f.     Milk Producing Institutions organised                                   Number        361       361
      g.     Pig rearer self-help groups mobilised                                   Number        250       250




                                                          34
      h. Goat rearer self-help groups mobilised                           Number    300    300
  E      Pilot Operation
     a. Afforestation area                                                Hectare   7048   6844
  *NT= No Targets were fixed as these interventions were demand-driven.


Subcomponents
19.     Farm Advisory Services. The goal of this sub-component was to introduce
decentralized, pluralistic farm advisory services integrating crop, horticulture, livestock
and fishery sectors. This goal was fully achieved by establishing Agricultural Technology
Management Agencies (ATMAs) in 12 project districts (11 identified at appraisal and the
new district of Baska) which facilitated the programmatic convergence of the line
departments. Gender and equity concerns were fully reflected in both the structure and
programmatic focus of this new model, with all ATMA Governing Boards and block level
Farm Advisory Committees (FACs) having 30 percent women members and with
appropriate representation of scheduled castes and tribal groups. 208 Block Resource
Centers (BRCs) were completed which provided the required space for training of farmers
and meetings of the Farm Advisory Committees and interdepartmental Block Technology
Teams (BTTs) of government officials. Six BRCs could not be constructed due to non-
availability of land. National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE,
an apex institute in the country for agricultural extension) and an experienced State
Extension Advisor provided mentoring and hand holding support to the newly established
ATMAs. This played a key role in successfully operationalizing this new extension
approach.
20.      Technology dissemination activities have increased significantly in 12 project
districts as a result of the project. For example, 835 exposure visits, 41,757 on-farm
demonstrations, 15,354 training events and 6,729 field days were organized. A total of
814,664 farmers participated in these activities. After witnessing the productivity gains in
the on-farm demonstrations, 590,136 farmers adopted the demonstrated technologies on
159,087 ha in the following years and produced additional 169,196 tons of agricultural
produce. These adopter farmers reported productivity gains ranging from 36 percent in
vegetable crops to 47 percent in. Farmer-to-farmer exchange of 8,984 tons of certified,
truthfully labeled seed of self-pollinated crops produced on the demonstration plots
significantly improved seed replacement rate in ATMA districts. Other notable
achievements include supply of 3,053 pure breed and 4,605 cross breed bucks, and 2,053
pure breed and 6,976 cross breed boars for genetic upgrading of goats and pigs in project
villages. In order to facilitate access to credit ATMAs assisted 514,540 farmers in
obtaining Kisan Credit Cards from the commercial banks and availing crop loans
amounting to INR13,670.27 million.




                                                      35
21.     Adaptive Research. Based on the researchable issues identified in the extension
plans (District Agriculture Development Strategies), Assam Agricultural University
carried out seven research sub-projects covering integrated pest and nutrient management,
seed storage, integrated fish and livestock production systems. Notable achievements
include development of a new biofertilizer, seed storage bins and cost effective cattle feed
using tea waste.
22.      Livestock Upgrading. Infrastructure development and full cost recovery
supporting productivity enhancement through breed improvement relies in large measure
on artificial insemination. Artificial insemination (AI) to create crossbreds has been the
primary contributor to increased milk productivity in India and was an area in which
Assam had lagged considerably. Infrastructure development under the project, including
supply chain management through the Assam Livestock Development Authority (ALDA)
facilitated the delivery of 2,108,240 doses of semen. These resulted in the birth of 788,513
calves and an estimated 394,257 crossbred females with production capacity on an
average 6.3 liters per day compared to 1.1 liters among unimproved indigenous cattle.23
The availability of liquid nitrogen increased two and a half times. Capacity enhancement
for producing semen doses by financing bull and equipment purchase increased semen
production more than 3.5 fold, from about 90,000 semen doses in 2004 to 330,049 semen
doses in 2014. The coverage of breedable cattle with AI increased from 6.48 percent in
2003-04 to 10 percent in 2013-14. A covenant to achieve full cost recovery of AI services,
together with the expansion of services, resulted in a revenue increase to ALDA of about
12.5 times during the project period, and supported further expansion and modernization
of facilities post-project.
23.     Privatization of breed improvement services. Expansion of breed improvement
services through AI resulted in policy change to expand delivery beyond the government
veterinary department to unemployed youth. The project provided intensive training,
capacity building and mentoring program to 164 Gopal Mitras (GMs, target 400). Of
these, 78 GMs are active in the field and have delivered 65,933 AI services resulting in
the birth of 21,257 (32 percent success) crossbred calves. Building on this success, AI
services have recently been outsourced to West Assam Milk Union Limited (WAMUL)
and 75 Mobile Artificial Insemination Technicians have been trained and equipped in
Nagoan district to increase the volume of services and success of AI delivery to 45 percent,
up from the current 32 to 37 percent.
24.    As an important departure from the past, a pilot fodder development program was
taken up by the Animal Husbandry and Veterinarian Services Department (AH&VD)
along with their regular activities. In collaboration with 1,570 DCS members’ oat



23   AACP financed purchase of liquid nitrogen, frozen semen straw and bull purchase.


                                                          36
demonstrations were taken up on 68 ha. On seeing the benefits, AH&VD has scaled up
this program from their funds, covering about 11,800 ha.
25.      Fish Seed Production. In order to improve quality of fish seed and fish stock
biodiversity, the project rehabilitated four State Brood Banks for rearing spawn collected
from river Brahmaputra, and also provided investment grant support to 19 entrepreneurs
for setting up improved mini hatcheries on a demonstration basis. By doing so Assam was
able to produce about 47 million fingerlings besides spawn and fry, meeting about 1
percent of the state’s requirement of quality seed. Also, based on the success of the
improved mini hatcheries demonstrated under the project, GoA has scaled up this activity
under their own program supporting 57 improved mini hatcheries. Systematic extension,
exposure visits and capacity building activities were also taken up to raise awareness
about the benefits of using quality fish seed and the hazards of hybridized fish.
26.    Commodity Marketing. To enhance marketing options, the project supported a
number of initiatives that enabled the farming community to acquire the technical capacity
and to access emerging market opportunities that allowed for higher returns and better
farm incomes resulting from the growing opportunities associated with the agriculture
and food sectors.
     a) AACP piloted Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) in five districts of Assam.
        These FPOs represented 17,241 of farmers, mobilized INR717,000 as paid up
        capital, and were federated to 25 farmer cooperatives (15 for agriculture
        commodities and 10 for fisheries). The FPOs were linked to 15 wholesale
        distributors of agriculture inputs (including fish feed) facilitating competitive
        access of FPO members to input markets, which resulted in savings in agriculture
        inputs of about 10 percent to 38 percent. The FPOs were also linked to 49
        wholesale traders of agriculture commodities, enabling direct farmer access to
        output markets resulting in about 7-10 percent higher price.
     b) Developing producer organizations and building their capacity to access formal
        and informal markets. 1,276 livestock producer organizations, including 250 pig
        groups, 300 goat groups, 361 MPIs, and 312 Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCSs)
        were formed.24 Together, these represented 18,334 beneficiaries (78 percent dairy,
        12 percent goat, 10 percent pig). The organizations enabled their member to
        access both formal and informal markets, supporting transparency in product
        pricing and enabling better targeting of productivity enhancing inputs and
        services. The project made a significant contribution to market development,



24 While the DCSs are formally registered institutions, MPIs are informal institutions for milk collection and marketing.

Typically a DCS would have a membership base of on an average of 30 members and is registered under the Assam
Cooperative Act, an MPI membership base is about 11 and is an informal and not-registered body.


                                                          37
       particularly for the dairy sector where over 95 percent of milk is sold informally
       to traders. Dairy producer groups helped farmers realize higher prices from 20 to
       INR30 per liter on an average due to collective action and market information,
       regardless of whether market links were formal or informal. Anecdotal evidence
       suggests that informal trade resulted in higher market prices. About 40 percent of
       DCSs were able to efficiently manage the supply chain, including value addition
       activities; while overall 24 percent DCSs and 7 percent MPIs had access to
       chilling, quality and weighing technology. 361 MPIs were equipped and trained
       for small scale dairy processing. The largest impacts in profitability were
       achieved with pigs and goats. These profits increased by 4.1 and 2.4 fold
       respectively, with a 22 percent increase due to better prices as a result of
       collective action, while nearly 80 percent increase was due to productivity
       enhancement from better breeds, shelter, feed and other services delivery
       facilitated by the organization of groups.
   c) The project established a Pilot Enterprise Development Grant Fund, under which
      491 of commodity focused marketing groups were mobilized and imparted market
      extension trainings to understand market dynamics, price fluctuation and new
      opportunities. This resulted in these groups undertaking post-harvest processing
      and farm level value addition activities, and accessing distant and nontraditional
      markets for their produce. Under direct marketing arrangements, 396 commodity
      groups sold 165 tons of vegetables realizing about 13 to 14 percent higher price
      over traditional marketing channels. Under postharvest value addition, 95
      commodity groups sold 241 tons of value added products, realizing about 35
      percent higher price.
   d) Private sector involvement and public-private partnerships. The project
      facilitated collaboration and linkages of the dairy and fisheries groups with
      corporate sector – specifically with Amalgamated Plantations Private Limited
      (AAPL), an IFC client based in Assam. As a result, specialist inputs such as high
      yielding fish fingerlings were made available to these groups at competitive
      prices, and technical assistance on commercial fish production were provided by
      AAPL.
27.     Pilot Program on Forestry. Forestry subcomponent was implemented to
strengthen capacities and underlying forest management systems in the Forest
Department and participating communities for applying new and innovative approaches
to community forestry activities. The intention of the project was also to link the pilot
forestry component with the other components in the AACP where possible, and apply
more widely the lessons learned to forest fringe communities across the state. The forestry
component was initiated in 2006 in two divisions (Kamrup West and Nagaon) covering
10 Joint Forest Management Committees (JFMCs). Building on the progress made, the


                                            38
MTR added another 37 communities, including five in the original two divisions and 32
communities in six new forest divisions.
28.    Plantation establishment and maintenance. Subcomponent investments to
develop plantations for community uses – minor forest produce, fuel wood, timber, etc. -
has achieved 97 percent of the target coverage of 7,048 ha. The overall survival rate of 62
percent, measured across all participating JFMCs is reasonable.
29.     Nurseries. As part of both forestry and livelihoods, small nurseries have been
established in all 47 JFMCs. These nurseries provide seedlings for the plantations and
other forest works developed in each community, as well as serve longer-term livelihoods
support through commercial sales.
30.     Alternate livelihood activities. In spite of delays, the project implemented several
activities to improve livelihoods within the participating communities so as to increase
household incomes and broaden the economic base. This includes intercropping with
short rotation cash crops, fisheries, supplementary plantations of medicinal and aromatic
crops, etc.
31.      Policy initiatives, institutional development, and capacity building. The
project had a significant impact on institutional development under this component. The
establishment of Agricultural Technology Management Agencies (ATMAs) in 12
districts decentralized planning, funding and implementation of technology dissemination
to district, block and village level. It also institutionalized farmer and other stakeholder
representation on the ATMA Governing Board and on the block level Farmer Advisory
Committee, enabling representatives to shape and approve extension programs. The
ATMAs promoted the consolidation of the extension activities of different line
departments into a single integrated system covering crops, horticulture, livestock,
fisheries and marketing, and organized farmers into commodity or common interest
groups. ATMAs have emerged as the focal point for channeling resources for technology
dissemination in response to farmer needs expressed through participatory processes. The
ATMA model has proven to be acceptable and cost-effective for mobilizing State Line
Department staff to respond to farmer needs. Based on the success of AACP ATMAs,
GoA designated the state project director of AACP, as the Nodal Officer and ARIAS
society as the Nodal Agency for oversight of the entire ATMA program in Assam,
including 14 ATMAs set up under the centrally sponsored scheme funded by GoI.
32.    Phased cost recovery for artificial insemination services provided by the Animal
Husbandry and Veterinary Department, though delayed, was fully implemented by GoA.
This together with the expansion of services resulted in a 12.5-fold revenue increase by
ALDA.




                                             39
            33.     The project facilitated the management takeover of the defunct dairy plant of West
            Assam Milk Union Limited (WAMUL), by
            National Dairy Development Board. This not
            only led to the revival of this plant, but has
            also dramatically increased the formal milk
            procurement in the state from 2700 liters per
            day in 2007-08 to about 32,000 liters per day
            in 2014-15. This was facilitated by setting up
            of 141 MPIs by WAMUL.
            34.     GoA amended the Joint Forest Management Policy of the state with regard to the
            benefit sharing arrangement, wherein the project JFMCs are eligible for 50 percent of the
            net receipts from main fellings of trees from the forest land managed by them, as against
            25 percent for non-project JFMCs.
            35.     Rural Markets. At project closure 93 rural markets against the target of 97 had
            been upgraded. Surveys undertaken by the third party M&E consultant (triangulated with
            internal studies) show a significant impact: as compared with the pre-project situation
            traded volume increased by 66 percent; number of traders participating in the markets
            increased by 51 percent; market lease value increased by 79 percent.
            36.     Infrastructure Development. The performance of this component was
            satisfactory. Various outputs of Component 3 are summarized in this table.
          Interventions                                        Unit                 Project Target   Achievement

1.        Rural road and bridge upgrades
A         Improved rural connectivity by
     i    Roads rehabilitated                               Kilometer                    1000             900
     ii   Roads upgraded                                    Kilometer                    1000             836
 iii      Bridges upgraded                                   Number                      287              196
 iv       Market linkage roads rehabilitated                Kilometer                     57              57
B         Villages connected through improved rural roads    Number                      NT              1420
2         Road maintenance
A         Amount spent on annual maintenance of roads in    INR million                 1725.0           3303.9
          project districts from 2004-05 to 2010-11
3         Capacity building
A         Strengthening of Road Research Laboratory          Number                       1                1
4         Rural markets
A         Wholesale markets upgraded                         Number                       49              46
B         Rural Haats (Periodical markets) upgraded          Number                       48              47


            37.   Rural Roads. Infrastructure development has significantly improved through the
            expanded rural roads program, connecting over 1,423 villages with improved roads. The



                                                            40
project developed a unique set of criteria for selection of roads, wherein apart from
traditional indictors like habitation and traffic intensity, unique indicators comprising
agriculture and allied activities like irrigation intensity, cropping intensity, and market
facilities were also used. This helped in linking production hubs to markets. Impact
assessment studies suggest that these improvements have had a significant economic
impact. At project closure, 1,793 km of rural roads, comprising 836 km of black top roads
(target of 1,000 km), 900 km of gravel roads (target of 1,000 km) and 57 km of market
access roads (target of 57 km) had been upgraded, rehabilitated, and opened up for traffic.
Except for 217 km of roads which remain under the defect liability period, all roads have
been transferred to the regular divisions of PWD for maintenance. The use of gravel
surfacing was found to be a cost effective solution to low traffic situations. These roads
have also shown relatively good performance under the submergence conditions that often
prevail in Assam. The vehicle traffic density increased from 389 vehicles per day at
baseline to 1,563 vehicles per day at project closure. This increase of 302 percent is higher
than the anticipated end of project increase of 200 percent. Road rehabilitation also
decreased the average travel time of motorized vehicles by about 41 percent.
38.     The GoA complied with the covenant regarding the provision of funds for road
maintenance, resulting in regular maintenance and all-weather connectivity between the
habitations. As reflected in the negotiation documents of the original credit, for the period
2004-5 to 2010-11, GoA had spent INR3303.90 million (against the target of INR1725
million) for the maintenance of the roads in the project districts and spent INR9093
million (against the target of INR5250 million) for the state as a whole. For the FY 2014-
15, GoA spent INR2236.6 million for maintenance of rural roads in the state. After initial
delays a dedicated road maintenance fund has been created, supported by a Road
Maintenance Policy and Road Maintenance Fund Rules. AACP also facilitated the
establishment of the Assam State Road Board as an apex body for policy decisions and
for managing GoI programs and externally funded projects in the sector. Going forward,
this Board would be responsible for managing the state road maintenance fund as well.
39.    The Resettlement and Rehabilitation policy that was prepared as part of the project
preparation, was complied with under AACP, and has subsequently been mainstreamed
statewide in the road sector.
40.    The project facilitated constitution of Market Management and Development
Committees (MMDC) in every market for transparent and efficient management of the
markets developed under the project. Also, the project made it mandatory to set aside 10
percent of the annual lease value for the operation and maintenance of the developed
market to be done by the MMDC. Although MMDCs have been constituted in all the
markets developed under the project, only 18 markets have set aside the annual lease value
for market maintenance purposes.



                                             41
Status of allocation for annual road maintenance fund (ARMF) for the period 2004-
2011 as envisaged in the minutes of negotiation
            Financial Year     As envisaged in minutes          Actual expenditure
                                    of negotiation                (INR million)
                                    (INR million)
                                 Total     Total ARMF         Total     Total ARMF for
                              ARMF for         for 09      ARMF for      the 09 Project
                               the State      Project       the State       Districts
                                              Districts
           2004-05                600.00          200.00        541.6             200.0
           2005-06                650.00          215.00        797.5             201.5
           2006-07                700.00          230.00        898.1             333.5
           2007-08                750.00          245.00       1580.4             592.2
           2008-09                800.00          260.00       1292.3             484.2
           2009-10                850.00          275.00       1639.2             614.2
           20010-11               900.00          300.00       2343.9             878.3
           Total                 5250.00         1725.00      9093.0             3303.9

41.      Institutional development and capacity building. The Road Research Laboratory
facility had limited infrastructure facilities before the project. The Laboratory was revived
and reconstituted as the Assam Road Research and Training Institute, and has now
become recognized as a center of excellence for training and capacity building in this
region. This facility is being further strengthened under the ongoing Bank funded Assam
State Roads Project. Systematic capacity building of the PWD, the implementing agency
for this subcomponent, included training in planning, survey and investigation, material
evaluation, design, preparation of detailed project report, quality assurance, etc. This built
in-house capacity for handling projects funded from internal and external resources. The
in-house team has thus far designed about 3,500 km of rural roads and 3,792 bridges
without external technical assistance.
42.     Capacity building of the PWD and Agriculture Department, the implementing
agencies for this subcomponent, included identifying market users’ needs, assessment of
market trading conditions, and the preparation of master plan, market design, etc. This
resulted in the development of in-house capacity. Of the 93 markets upgraded under the
project, the in-house team prepared the design and estimates for 81 markets.
Innovations, good practices and scaling up
43.     The rural roads subcomponent introduced innovations and good practices that
have been adopted by PWD in their ongoing program – this includes the use of precast
bridges and standard box culverts for cross drainage works, the use of technical
examination consultants for independent quality monitoring and regular technical
assistance, the identification of a core network of rural roads to ensure basic access to
each habitation, and the use of a road condition index to assess road condition and plan
road maintenance. The project also experimented with market link roads using non-
conventional materials like concrete paver blocks.


                                               42
Innovations under rural roads subcomponent
  For the first time in Assam pre-cast, pre-tensioned RCC bridges have been introduced
   under AACP. 16 bridges have been constructed in Hailakandi district. This resulted in
   15 - 20% reduction in cost, but also reduced the construction time by 25 to 30%.
  Project pioneered the use of “segmental pre-cast box culverts” avoiding RCC Hume pipe
    culverts resulting in 15 - 20% cost reduction and 25 - 30% saving in construction time.




                                             43
Annex 3. Financial and Economic Analyses

A.    Introduction
44.   The Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project (AACP) was approved in
December 2004 with a total cost of US$214 million. In addition to management, the other
components were as follows.
     Component 1: Investment Grant Scheme (initially US$66.3 million, later
     increased to US$98.40m) to address the constraints arising from lack of investment
     capital and institutional capacities in farm and rural communities for productivity
     enhancement, and comprised the following subcomponents: (i) irrigation
     development; (ii) farm mechanization; (iii) micro-watershed drainage, and; (iii) fish
     production.
     Component 2: Agricultural Services and Market Chain Development (initially
     US$32.22 million, later increased to US$44.61 million) to address the constraints
     arising from inadequate market linked technology transfer, the absence of
     producer organizations with links to markets, and low productivity of livestock
     resources, and comprised the following subcomponents: (i) farm advisory services;
     (ii) marketing extension; (iii) livestock upgrading; (iv) fish seed; (v) milk
     marketing; (iv) forestry; and (v) project coordination unit
     Component 3: Infrastructure Development (initially US$115.88 million, later
     increased to US$148.59 million) to address the constraints arising from poor rural
     road network and inadequate rural market infrastructure, and comprised of the
     following subcomponents: (i) roads and bridges; and (ii) rural markets.
45.    Although restructuring was introduced five times over the 10 year implementation
period (the project concluded 15 March 2015), these components did not change. An
Additional Financing of US$75.73 million was approved in April 2012.
46.     The FEA conducted as part of the PAD projected benefits deriving from: (i)
increased cropping intensity; (ii) diversification of crop production into non-cereal
production; (iii) increased productivity of fish ponds/tanks and livestock operations; (iv)
reduced operating costs and travel time and increased traffic volumes from road upgrades,
and; (v) improved market prices through better access and market knowledge.
47.    Returns to investment were calculated at appraisal to be highest for the agricultural
interventions and lowest for livestock, with the projected rates of return to activities
shown in Table 1.




                                             44
              Table 1: Rates of Return Calculated at Project Commencement
                                  Financial Returns             Economic Returns
           Activity
                               IRR (%)      NPV (INR         IRR (%)    NPV (INR bn)
                                               bn)
 Agriculture                     36.3         4.47            39.1             4.60
 Fisheries                       20.9         0.17            20.7             0.15
 Livestock                       16.2         0.37            16.2             0.33
 Rural Roads                     17.5         0.83            18.9             0.94
 Overall Project                 19.9         4.06            21.4             4.43

2.       Investment Completion Analysis
48.      The completion analysis was prepared separately for 10 activities (ATMA and
irrigation, drainage, mechanization, fisheries, AI, diary, roads, markets, forestry, and
livestock groups) accounting for 86 percent of the Bank’s share of project financing. This
approach differs slightly from that used in the PAD FEA in that it includes separate
models for micro-watershed drainage and mechanization activities, both of which were
subsumed within the agricultural model in the original analysis.
49.     The models evaluate both the original credit and the additional financing as a
single instrument over the period 2005-2024 – consistent with 20-year-long-period of
analysis assumed during the project’s appraisal. The analysis includes not only additional
financing costs but also the actual value of beneficiaries’ contributions made under
Component 1 as well as program maintenance costs for drainage (Component 1), ATMA
(Component 2) and roads (Component 3).
50.     Key assumptions made in preparing the activity models are presented in relation
to each activity below. However, additional discussion is attached to the relevant Excel
sheets concerning two adjustments to agricultural control group results: (a) including off-
farm earnings in control group benefits. These are not available to participants, as higher
cropping intensities reduce surplus labor available for wage employment, and; (b)
increased costs of production for participants to account for the expected use of higher
levels of inputs (fertilizers, improved seeds, etc.) associated with the higher yields.
51.     Data on project costs and beneficiary contributions were supplied by the project’s
financial records. Data on project outputs and participant benefits were accessed from the
project’s M&E systems and the Impact Analysis Reports of 2010 and March 2015.25 The
combined sample size of these two studies comprises in excess of 25,000 households




25
     Mott MacDonald, AACP Project Impact Study, March 2015



                                                 45
including control groups. The surveys were carried out using a customized sampling
methodology which ensures statistically significant presentation of the different agro-
climatic conditions in Assam and allows for multiple measures of the project’s impact.
The control groups selected for the Impact Assessment Reports (IAR) had not benefitted
directly from project expenditures or support, although no evidence is provided in the
IARs as to whether they did not participate by choice, for instance because they are older,
or simply because they did not live in areas targeted for participation. Because the original
economic analysis was made more than 10 years ago, all original modelling assumptions
were critically reviewed against the most recent data and new economic modelling
practices adopted by agricultural and rural development projects in India. When more
recent data were not available, the updated economic model maintained the original
assumptions.
52.     The definition of the with project and without project scenarios were guided by
the most recent IAR, which included both qualitative and quantitative discussion of results
for participants and control groups. The original economic model formulation was used
to the extent possible. To ensure consistency of presentation all data is presented in 2014
prices and, in line with an original assumption, the opportunity cost of capital of 12
percent is applied for deriving net present values.

2.1   Project costs
53.      Both the projected and actual economic project expenditure is presented in 2014
prices in Figure 1. The key differences with those assumed in the PAD include: (i) delays
at initial stages of project implementation (i.e. during 2005-2008 period); (ii) the cost of
additional financing processed at the beginning of 2012; (iii) full integration of
beneficiary contributions under Component 1 in the updated project cost structure; and
(iii) higher than budgeted costs of road maintenance and rehabilitation.
54.    Other differences between the original and updated economic analyses consist of:
(i) the revised projections included continued maintenance expenditure for micro-
watershed sub-projects; and (ii) the costs of continued provision of ATMA services until
2024.




                                             46
Figure 1. Original and Revised Project Cost Curves (million INR, in 2014 prices)

 5,000
 4,500
 4,000
 3,500
 3,000
 2,500
 2,000
 1,500
 1,000
   500
    -
         20052006200720082009201020112012201320142015201620172018201920202021202220232024

                                        Revised       Original


2.2 Financial Analysis
55.     Results of the financial analysis of the project are presented in Table 2 and
discussed below. While the comparison for agriculture is not exact because different
models were used, Table 1 shows that in financial terms, the project outperformed
projected returns at appraisal in all cases except rural roads, where the FIRR was 15.9
percent, instead of the projected 17.5 percent. Overall, the projected FIRR of 19.9 at
appraisal was exceeded by an FIRR of 22.2 percent at completion. It is worth noting that
these results were obtained using a range of very conservative assumptions regarding
benefits. For the agricultural models, for example, it was assumed that the increased
cropping intensity would result in reduced time for off-farm wage earning activities, and
control group benefits were increased to include such wages (see Key Assumptions note
accompanying the supporting Excel spreadsheets.). Furthermore, no attempt was made to
quantify benefits arising from multiplier effects, downstream job creation (e.g. in food
processing) or for wider financial or economic benefits arising from improved access
roads, beyond those specifically affecting producers.




                                           47
        Table 2: Financial Rates of Return Calculated at Project Completion

                                         Number of Direct Financial Rates of Return
             Activity/Component
                                           Participants     FIRR (%)    NPV (INR m)
       Micro‐watershed (drainage)                  24,683            29.3           56
       STW/LLP/ATMA/Mechanization                 330,000            42.7        4,888
       Tractor Rental                              26,932            28.7          246
       Fishery                                     72,184            31.4          468
       Livestock (dairy cooperatives)                 294            26.3          496
       Roads (villages connected)                   1,423            15.9        1,423
       Markets (structures)                            93            15.4           44
       Component 1                                                 30.2%           771
       Component 2                                                 18.4%         1,643
       Component 3                                                 26.0%         5,505
       Overall Project                            565,475          22.2%         7,327

56.     Micro-watershed drainage activities permitted producers to obtain higher yields
during the winter (Sali) season as well as produce vegetables and other crops during the
Boro season when flooding commonly rendered much of the land uncultivatable. Because
of the impact of accumulated organic matter in the soil, the micro-watershed farm model
assumes that the project benefits would peak 12 months after draining the submerged
agricultural land. The benefits are assumed to peak during the first year after the
completion of drainage works, and to decline during the subsequent two seasons, and then
to remain unchanged thereafter. The farm model also assumes that the stream of benefits
will continue to accrue for 15 years in total. The annual drainage maintenance costs were
estimated by the Agriculture Department and were added in the calculation of the project
costs for the entire period of economic analysis.
57.     According to data from the Impact Assessment Report (IAR) published in March
2015, and converted into small and large farm models, micro-watershed cropping
intensities rose from 153 percent to 193 percent during the course of implementation.
While returns from the investment were good, at 29.3 percent, they were lower than for
the main irrigation and TA package due to the absence of irrigation in most cases and the
need for producers to forego prior wage income during a significant part of the year as
on-farm cropping intensity increased. No direct comparison with PAD estimates are
possible, as this activity was not analyzed separately at that time.
58.     Technology-based Interventions. Shallow Tube Well, Low Lift Pump,
Agricultural technology transfer, and Mechanization activities were grouped to avoid the
likely duplication of benefits arising from the high level of overlap between these services.
(They are abbreviated in figures below as “STW/LLP/ATMA.”) Most participants in this
activity category group received technical support and access to both irrigation water and


                                             48
tractor or power tiller services. Returns to activity investment are simulated using
representative farm models with different cropping patterns and cultivation intensities to
measure the impacts of STWs, Tractors, ATMA investments. To recognize the
differences of the impacts on crop composition and cropping intensity on farms of
different sizes, the impact of each intervention is modelled differently for two ‘typical’
farm sizes – ‘small’ and ‘large.’ The basic structure of farm models was calibrated using
the factual project beneficiary statistics reported by the project impact studies, as noted
above.
59.     Both small (0.85 ha) and large (2.58 ha) models were prepared using data from
the IAR. The principal benefits arose from two sources: (a) Increases in yields. These
were sometimes substantial; for example, Boro rice yields rose from 2.2 MT/Ha to 5
MT/Ha, according to data from the IAR; (b) Cropping intensities, which the models show
rising from 140 percent to over 200 percent for participants in this combined activity.
60.     The FEA at appraisal projected an FIRR of 36.3 percent, so actual implementation
results (42.7 percent) were higher than anticipated, largely due to greater than expected
yield increases and a more rapid take up of high valued crops than anticipated.

Table 3: Key Assumptions Used in the Analysis of Technology-based Interventions
                             Cropping intensity         Area under cereals   High value crops
                                     At project appraisal
 Without project (control)           140-155                   100                 0%
       With project                  195-210                  86-92               8-14%
                                     At impact assessment
  Without Micro-watershed              153                      85                 15%
 –     Control
                                       193                      65                 35%
 STW/LLP/ATMA -
                                       140                      65                 17%
 Control
 With project                          201                      52                 48%

61.     Mechanization. Mechanization, mainly through the use of rental farm tractors,
was an integral element of the cultivation practices participants undertook during
implementation, whether or not they were members of a tractor group. However, the IAR
found significant income being generated by tractor group members (typically 10 farmers
per group) renting out the equipment for land preparation and other tasks. As a result, half
of the costs of mechanization activities were assigned to the combined irrigation and
technical assistance activity discussed above and half were assigned to the tractor group.
On average, each tractor generated net earnings of INR106,000 per annum for its 10
participating group members, in addition to its use on group member holdings, resulting
in an FIRR of 28.7 percent. This activity was not analyzed separately in the PAD FEA.



                                               49
62.     Livestock. The livestock model follows the approach of the original economic
model in terms of measuring project benefits – the net economic value of incremental
milk production resulting from the additional crossbred cows produced as a consequence
of the AI program. The benefits of AI are modelled as the product of additional lactating
crossbred cows produced and a net economic value of incremental milk production per
single crossbred cow relative to that per single indigenous cows. The data on the former
were supplied by the Livestock Department while the estimates of gross margins from
milk production by crossbred and indigenous cows were obtained from the impact study.
63.     Fisheries. Three sets of fish farm models were built with gross margins estimated
using data from 585 observations made as part of the IAR. Table 4 illustrates the
differences in ‘with project’ and ‘without project’ fish yield assumptions made by the
original and updated fish farm models. The average sizes of the beneficiary ponds, tanks
and beels were found to be, respectively, 0.6, 1.2 and 12.8 hectares.
Table 4: Projected and Actual Productivity Gains under Fisheries (MT/unit)
                           Farmer ponds Community tanks Beels
                              At project appraisal
           Without project     0.8               0.7       0.1
           With project        2.5              2.15       0.5
                              At impact assessment
           Without project     2.1               1.7       0.8
           With project        3.5               2.3       1.6

64.     Roads. Road related benefits result from reductions in vehicle operating costs
(VOC), reduced journey times and changes in cropping patters arising from improved
connectivity. Total physical outcomes from the activity comprised the rehabilitation or
upgrading of 1,793 km of rural roads, comprising 836 km of black-top (bitumen) roads,
900 km of gravel roads and 57 km of market access roads. VOC benefits were the most
important element of total returns for both gravel and black-top roads. The assessment of
transportation and time used in the analysis follows the same approach as the original
model. The calculated FIRR at investment completion, at 15.9 percent (Table 2), is
slightly lower than that projected in the PAD (17.5 percent, see Table 1), despite a greater
than expected increase in vehicle usage on the target roads. However, investment costs
were higher than projected. The data on cost and time savings were supplied by the PWD
department and are presented in Tables 5 and 6.




                                             50
 Table 5: Estimated Impact of Rehabilitated Blacktop Roads on Cost and Time of
 Travel
                                                Traffic volume density        Travel time
                        VOC (INR per km)
    Mode of                                     (average daily number      (hours per 10 km)
 Transportation                                        of vehicles)
                         Without     With        Without          With     Without     With
                         project    project       project        project   project    project
Carts                      7.7        6.0          154            604       0.76       0.46
Cycle/Rickshaw             0.5        0.3          208            773       0.70       0.42
Bus                       12.4       11.0            3             11       0.38       0.28
Truck                     16.0       14.1            3             11       0.46       0.33
Tractor/Trailer/
                          15.6       13.6              3           16       0.74        0.40
Power tiller
Car/Jeep                   7.0        3.9             10           70       0.36        0.13
Two wheelers               2.3        1.2             10           79       0.27        0.14

   Table 6: Estimated impact of rehabilitated gravel roads on cost and time of travel
                                                       Traffic volume
                                                                              Travel time
                        VOC (INR per km)              density (average
     Mode of                                                               (hours per 10 km)
  Transportation                                      daily number of
                                                          vehicles)
                          Without      With          Without     With      Without      With
                          project     project        project    project    project     project
Carts                       7.9         6.2            15         31         1.2        0.85
Cycle/Rickshaw              0.6         0.4            35         90        0.95        0.72
Bus                        12.8        11.1             2          9         0.4         0.3
Truck                      16.2        14.5             3         10        0.46        0.35
Tractor/Trailer/Power
                            16.2       13.9            3           6         0.8        0.62
tiller
Car/Jeep                    8.0         4.8            8          50        0.38         0.2
Two wheelers                2.6         1.4            20         54        0.31         0.2

 65.    The PWD data are corroborated by the findings from the IAR survey of 1,204
 residents of villages connected by the roads rehabilitated by the project.
 66.     Market development comprised the improvement of existing physical
 infrastructure for 46 wholesale markets and 47 periodic markets within the project area,
 improving market access for an estimated 1.5 - 2.8 million residents within 750
 beneficiary villages. The benefits of greater market access include higher agricultural
 sales, higher farm gate prices, higher cropping intensity, and higher yields. The analysis
 includes two sets of farm models – small and large, with and without improved marketing
 access. The differences in cropping intensity, yields and prices were obtained from the
 survey of 13,750 farmers conducted by the impact assessment study seeking to identify
 differences among farmers reporting problems with market access and farmers not
 reporting such problems. The comparative data from the survey together with
 assumptions used in the analysis are provided in Table 5.



                                                51
Table 7: Key Assumptions Used in the Economic Analysis of Rural Market
Investments
                         Impact study results                Assumed by the model
                       Farmers        Farmers         Farmers       Farmers reporting
                         with        reporting          with       problems with market
                       assured     problems with      assured              access
       Item            access to   market access      access to
                       markets                        markets
 Cropping intensity      200            189             175                  170
                                     Yields (tons/Ha)
 Paddy                    4.4            4               4.3        4.2 (Sali); 4.3 (Boro)
 Mustard                  1.1           0.88              1                   0.9
 Cabbage                 10.6           9.17             10                   9.6
 Cauliflower              9.8           4.32             10                    9
                                     Prices (INR/kg)
 Paddy                    11             11              11                   11
 Mustard                  25             22              25                   22
 Cabbage                   7             7                7                    7
 Cauliflower               9             8                9                   8.5

67.     Data indicates that farmers with relatively better market access have statistically
significantly higher cropping intensity levels, higher yields and, as a rule, enjoy higher
prices for mustard seed and some vegetables. The number of markets upgraded was
slightly less than originally projected, and most upgrading occurred later in the
implementation period. The FIRR for this activity, based upon improved crop
productivity resulting from the market improvement across an estimated area served by
the market, is calculated at 15.4 percent. No comparative estimate was given in the PAD.
68.      Crop Diversification. One of the principal benefits arising from agricultural
activities under the project was diversification. This change not only reflected the
increased dry season cropping activity as a result of project supported irrigation, but also
allowed farmers to increase their incomes from sale of high value crops – principally
vegetables (see Section 4). Table 3 above demonstrates the significant changes that
occurred in comparison with control groups. For both the micro-watershed and other
technology models, the proportion of high value crops grown more than doubled, while
cropping intensity increased by 26 percent (micro-watershed participants) and 44 percent
(irrigation/TA participants). Although the IAR only collected data on product sales, not
volumes, it is clear that much of the vegetable production resulting from the increased
cropping intensity has been for sale off-farm.
69.     Other Benefits. Other miscellaneous benefits include the value of additional net
income from milk sales and from livelihood activities by, respectively, MPIs, DCs and
forestry groups established and supported by the project. They also include net economic
returns from incremental production of livestock products by pilot goat and pig groups.
The estimates of economic benefits were drawn from IAR data.


                                             52
70.     Returns to Individual Project Components. Returns to investment on a
component basis were also calculated, showing that the highest returns resulted from
Component 1 (irrigation, micro-watershed, mechanization and fisheries activities), which
achieved a return of 42.1 percent. Component 2, including farm advisory services, market
support activities and livestock, generated an FIRR of 18.1 percent, while Component 3
(Infrastructure Development) achieved an FIRR of 26. No component-based analysis of
returns is provided in the PAD documentation.
2.3     Economic Analysis
71.     In the economic analysis, the concepts of ‘tradables’ and ‘non-tradables’ are used
to determine the calculation of ‘economic’ prices. Because India is self-sufficient in rice
production, the economic analysis uses export parity price in determining the economic
price for paddy. A Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.9 has been applied to all non-
tradable items and has a significant impact, in particular, on labor and hence overall
production costs. Table 6 presents the EIRR figures for major project activities,
components and the overall project.
                  Table 8: Summary of the Project Economic Analysis
                                                     Economic Rates of Return
                      Activity/Component
                                                       EIRR (%)   NPV (INR m)
                 Micro‐watershed (drainage)                  31.7           59
                 STW/LLP/ATMA/Mechanization                  67.2        7,915
                 Tractor Rental                              34.8          302
                 Fishery                                     28.8          377
                 Livestock                                   27.2          468
                 Roads                                       21.2        2,946
                 Markets                                      8.5          ‐38
                 Component 1                               31.2%           711
                 Component 2                               28.2%         4,509
                 Component 3                               22.7%         3,485
                 Overall Project                           24.7%         8,181

72.      Review of EIRRs for individual activities reveals that, in most cases, completion
results exceeded those projected at appraisal. While the STW/LLP/ATMA combined
analysis at 67.2 percent was significantly higher than the overall result initially projected
of 39.1 percent, this is balanced in part by the results for the other two activities under the
initial analysis – micro-watershed (31.7 percent) and tractor (34.8 percent) investments,
both of which were lower than the average agricultural figure at appraisal. The large
difference between financial and economic results for the combined STW/LLP/ATMA
activity can be attributed to the increased price of rice in economic terms and the lower
labor costs when the SCF is applied.


                                              53
73.     The superior performance of the overall project can be explained by the
reallocation of project expenditures by the project implementing agency towards more
profitable activities during the latter parts of the implementation period (2010-2014). The
implementing agency took advantage of the midterm project review and processing of
additional financing to fine-tune project targets and re-program project expenditures in
favor of activities with higher economic returns.

3.    Sustainability Analysis
74.     The project has tracked a number of project beneficiaries over time to understand
the sustainability of project benefits. Table 7 presents the summary indicators for selected
groups drawn from M&E data.
               Table 9: Average sustainability indices for selected groups
                                                  Average sustainability score*
           Beneficiary groups              18 months after the     36 months and more
                                               investment           after the investment
           Drainage                                 n.a.                         3
           Ponds                                    2.8                          3
           Forestry                                 n.a.                         3
           MPI                                      2.3                          2.7
           Farm mechanization                       2.1                          2.5
               *from score 1 - 'unstainable' to score 3 - 'highly sustainable'

75.      Each group has been assigned a score based on the weighted score of financial,
institutional and social parameters ranging from ‘unsustainable’ (a score of 1) to ‘highly
sustainable’ (a score of 3). The analysis revealed that most groups were sustainable and
were improving their performance over time.

4.     Impact on Household Incomes and Poverty
76.     The project has delivered direct benefits to an estimated 1,050,000 households
(direct and indirect beneficiaries) organized in an estimated 122,000 groups. Around 57
percent of all beneficiaries are participants in the ATMA program. Almost all others (99
percent) benefited from Component 1 programs. Among those, members of STW/LLP
groups account for 76 percent of all beneficiary households, with tractor and micro-
watershed group members responsible for further, respectively, 6 percent and 5 percent
of the total. The remaining 11 percent of all households benefiting from Component 1
activities is made up of the participants of the different fishery groups.
77.   A number of the key activities of the project have significantly increased
household incomes over control groups which did not participate in project activities. The
micro-watershed activity is calculated to have resulted in a 57 percent greater income
among participants than among controls, while the STW/LLP/ATMA participants have
incomes 39 percent higher than the controls. The membership of a tractor group is


                                                   54
estimated to increase participants’ incomes by 32 percent over the already increased
STW/LLP/ATMA participants. It should be noted that these increases occur after taking
into account the loss of wage labor opportunities and income resulting from the higher
labor demands of the increased cropping intensities of the project activities. The project
has shown a moderate coverage of women and disadvantaged groups (Table 8). Overall,
about 15 percent, or over 156,000 direct beneficiaries, were women, with livestock groups
being almost exclusively female in composition. With the solitary exception of pond
fishery groups all project activities have enjoyed more than 50 percent participation by
scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward castes. With over 54 percent of all
project benefits (excluding ATMA for which no information was available) being
received by poor and marginal groups the project has a demonstrable pro-poor focus at
the core of its support programs.
                 Table 10: Project Beneficiaries under Components 1 and 2
                                                                            Including
                                      Estimated
                      Number of                        Share of scheduled       Share of       Share of
  Component or                        number of
                      beneficiary                       castes, scheduled     landless and     women
    Activity                          beneficiary
                        groups                          tribes and other        marginal     beneficiaries
                                      households
                                                        backward castes         farmers
 Component 1
 STW/LLP                115,220         330,000               50                   55             9
 Farm
 mechanization           3,233          26,932                52                   34             17
 Micro-Watershed          89            24,683                52                   44             11
 Ponds                   1,879          27,181                34                   58             15
 Tanks                    629           19,182                75                   60             15
 Beels                    103            4,612                60                   70             15
 Component 2
 ATMA                     n.a.          590,136               64                  n.a.            18
 MPI                      361            2,527                67                   74             43
 Pig rearing groups       250            1,250                73                   85             99
 Goat rearing
 groups                   300            1,500                73                   85             99
 Forestry                 79              395                 57                   59             44
 TOTAL*                  122,143         1,044,058            58%                54%             15%
*Share of landless and marginal farmers excluding the unknown value for ATMA beneficiaries

78.     The project exhibited an impressive coverage of women and disadvantageous
groups (Table 8). Overall, about 15 percent, or over 156,000 beneficiaries, were women.
Livestock groups were almost exclusively female in composition. With the solitary
exception of pond fishery groups, all project activities enjoyed more than 50 percent
participation by scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and other backward castes. With over
54 percent of all project benefits (excluding ATMA for which no information was



                                                  55
available) being received by poor and marginal group the project has a demonstrable pro-
poor focus at the core of its support programs.
79.    Table 9 presents the average net income gains per beneficiary household relative
to an estimated 2014 household poverty line of INR73,660. The average estimated net
income gain per beneficiary household was about 40 percent of the estimated household
poverty line, suggesting the project had a very strong impact in reducing poverty. Over
40 percent of all beneficiaries moreover have had an impact of at least 66 percent of the
estimated 2014 household poverty line, suggesting a considerable improvement in living
conditions as a result of the project.
     Table 11: Net Household Income Gain Relative to Estimated Poverty Line
                 Activity                 Per Beneficiary         % of estimated 2014
                                            Household                poverty line*
        Tractor Hire                          10,938                      19%
        Drainage                              15,386                      27%
        STWs/LLPs/ATMA                        36,207                      62%
        Pig rearing groups                    24,956                      34%
        MPI                                   22,614                      31%
        ATMA                                  17,871                      24%
        Forestry                              12,014                      16%
        Beels                                 10,392                      14%
        Ponds                                  4,146                       6%
        Goat Rearing Groups                    3,251                       4%
        Tanks                                  1,607                       2%
      * 2011 poverty line of INR58,000/household inflated by 2011-2014 inflation. All prices
        financial.

80.      The project paid meticulous attention to the appropriate scale of investments.
Economies of scale effects – which are hard to attain when supporting a range of activities
in a large number of communities with poor market connections – were not targeted. As
a result, the project brought about tangible and transformative impact on rural livelihoods.




                                                56
Figure 2: Change in Income Distribution for STW Beneficiaries With- and Without-
Project Intervention (N=3,872)

50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
 5
 0
        < 30,000



                   30,000 -



                              60,000 -



                                         90,000 -



                                                    120,000

                                                    150,000

                                                              150,000

                                                              180,000

                                                                        180,000

                                                                        210,000

                                                                                  210,000

                                                                                  240,000

                                                                                            240,000

                                                                                            270,000



                                                                                                      270,000
                                         120,000
                    60,000



                               90,000




                                                                                                         >
                                                       -



                                                                 -



                                                                           -



                                                                                     -



                                                                                               -
81.     To illustrate the extent of the project impact on household welfare Figure 2
presents the distribution of total (gross) income of STW beneficiary households without
project and after the receipt of the project-funded STW based on a sample of 3,872
households. The Figure shows that without project three quarters of all households’
income hovered within the INR30,000 – 90,000 range while with project the income of
more than half of all beneficiary households have expanded into INR90,000-175,000
range. The project has therefore made a clear, positive and significant change in the
income distribution pattern of the project participants.
82.     To illustrate the specific project impact on different income groups Table 10
presents an income mobility matrix based on the data of the same 3,872 STW
beneficiaries. The rows represent the movement of households across income quintiles in
2014 from their original income position in 2012. The first row, for example, shows that
27.5 percent of households that in 2012 belonged to the lowest income quintile have
managed to improve their income levels by 2014 relative to the other households
originating from the same (poorest) income quintile in 2012. The performance of the
households belonging to the second income quintile in 2012 is even more impressive,
with 44 percent managing to improve their relative income levels, and only 25.3 percent
declining to the bottom quintile.




                                                       57
 Table 12: Income mobility matrix for STW households over 2012-2014 (N = 3,872)
                                                          Quintile in 2014
      Quintile in 2012
                               Bottom         Second          Third             Fourth          Fifth
                               Quintile       Quintile      Quintile           Quintile       Quintile
                             (INR18,220     (INR82,286    (INR108,808        (INR136,482    (INR162,112
                              to 82,285)    to 108,807)    to 136,481)        to 162,111)    to 347,723)
 Bottom Quintile
                                72.5           15.4            9.0               3.0            0.1
 (INR11,607-46,427)
 Second Quintile
                                25.3           30.6           27.6               10.0           6.4
 (INR46,429 to 58,927)
 Third Quintile (INR58,929
                                 1.4           27.4           28.5               25.8           16.8
 to 67,896)
 Fourth Quintile
                                 0.8           23.7           11.7               35.2           28.7
 (INR67,898 to 78,447)
 Fifth Quintile (INR78,449
                                 0.0            3.0           23.1               26.0           47.9
 to 260,453)

83.      Table 11 shows data on agriculture output sales in constant 2014 prices by STW
participants in order to show the scale of the project’s impact on producer behavior. It is
noteworthy that, while the sale of agricultural products has increased significantly among
all participants, the greatest impact has occurred among the lowest income quintile.
 Table 13: Agriculture Sales by STW Households During 2012-2014 (N = 3,872)
                                     Sales of agricultural products (in
                Quintile                           INR)
                                      2012           2014       Gain
         Bottom quintile in 2012           12,544          38,838        210%
         Second quintile in 2012           21,477          60,404        181%
         Third quintile in 2012            25,053          73,548        194%
         Fourth quintile in 2012           27,035          74,481        176%
         Top quintile in 2012              27,654          76,430        176%
         Sample Average                    22,733          64,588        184%

84.     Other non-monetary benefits of STW interventions include improvement in
household food security status. In 2012 approximately 15 percent of the 3,872 households
interviewed reported that their own food production was insufficient to cover their food
needs. In 2014 none of the respondents from the same group of households reported being
food deficit.
85.     Although closely related to the size of the land endowment, the value of
agricultural sales appears to be another important determinant of ‘positive’ income
mobility. Households with ‘positive’ income mobility report the value of agricultural
sales in the range of INR40,000-66,000, while the difference in the value of food stocks
and own food consumption appears to be relatively minor. It is notable that households



                                              58
with ‘negative’ income mobility (i.e. declining from the 3rd to the 2nd quintile) exhibited
a much higher growth in the value of own consumption and food stocks, likely indicating
that they are more concerned about household food security than higher agricultural sales.
Table 14: Factors explaining income mobility in the third income quintile in 2012 for
          STW households
                                               Households        Households        Households
                                              moving from       staying in the    moving from
             Characteristic                     the third       third quintile      the third
                                             quintile in 2012   during 2012-     quintile in 2012
                                              to the second          2014         to the fourth
                                             quintile in 2014                    quintile in 2014
 Net area farmed                                   0.54              0.7               0.85
 Gross agricultural sales in 2012 (INR)           2,606            10,888             17,272
 Gross agricultural sales in 2014 (INR)           6,306            26,163             42,256
    Difference (%)                                142%             140%               145%
 The value of own food consumption in 2012        20,433           19,298             18,099
 The value of own food consumption in 2014        27,689           27,310             22,394
    Difference (%)                                 36%              42%                24%
 The value of food stocks in 2012 (INR)           3,058             3,821              4,995
 The value of food stocks in 2014 (INR)           5,346             5,721              6,625
    Difference (%)                                 75%              50%                33%




                                              59
     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

          (a) Task Team members
                                                                                           Responsibility/
           Names                                   Title                  Unit
                                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Deepak Ahluwalia              Lead Agriculture Economist               SASDA - HIS   Economist
Madhavan Balachandran         Sr. Financial Management Specialist        GSUCA       Finance
Dhimant Jayendraray Baxi      Consultant                               SARPS - HIS   Procurement
Robert S. Epworth             Agriculture Consultant                     GFADR       Task Team Leader26
Prabir Joardar                Irrigation Consultant                      GSURR       Task Team Leader27
Ashok Kumar                   Sr. Highway Engineer                       GTIDR       Transport
Tapas Paul                    Senior Environmental Specialist            GENDR       Environment
Parmesh Shah                  Lead Rural Development Specialist          GFADR       Rural Livelihoods
Mridula Singh                 Senior Social Development Specialist       GSURR       Social
Paul Singh Sidhu              Consultant                                 GFADR       Agriculture
N. R. Bhasin                  Consultant                                             Livestock Specialist
Grahame Dixie                 Advisor- Marketing Specialist              GFADR       Task Team Leader28
Tanuj Mathur                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist        GSURR       Finance
Supervision/ICR
Nibir Kumar Bandyopadhyay     Consultant                               SASDA - HIS   Irrigation Engineer
Dhimant Jayendraray Baxi      Sr. Procurement Specialist               SARPS - HIS   Procurement Consultant
Debabrata Chakraborti         Consultant                                 GGODR       Procurement
Mohan Gopalakrishnan          Sr. Financial Management Specialist        GGODR       Finance
Prabir Joardar                Consultant                                 GSURR       Irrigation Engineer
Anupam Joshi                  Senior Environmental Specialist            GENDR       Environment
Jacqueline Julian             Operations Analyst                         GFADR       Cost tables Specialist
Ashok Kumar                   Sr. Highway Engineer                       GTIDR       Transport
A.K.Kalesh Kumar              Programs and Capacity Building             GGODR       Procurement
Assaye Legesse                Senior Agriculture Economist               GFADR       Economist
Tanuj Mathur                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist        GGODR       Finance
Grant Milne                   Sr. Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist     GFADR       Forestry
Manivannan Pathy              Sr. Agricultural Specialist                GFADR       Task Team Leader29
Tapas Paul                    Senior Environmental Specialist            GENDR       Environment
Paul Ryan                     Consultant                               LCSHS - HIS   Forestry
S. Selvarajan                 Consultant                               SASDA - HIS   Economist
Paul Singh Sidhu              Consultant                                 GFADR       Agriculture
Mridula Singh                 Sr. Social Development Specialist          GSURR       Social
Varun Singh                   Sr. Social Development Specialist          GSURR       Social
Ai Chin Wee                   Sr. Operations Officer                   SASDA - HIS   M&E Specialist
Robert Epworth                Agriculture Consultant                     GFADR       Task Team Leader
Deepak Ahluwalia              Lead Agriculture Economist                 GFADR       Economist
Grahame Dixie                 Advisor- Marketing Specialist              GFADR       Task Team Leader



     26
         TTL from Preparation till June 2005
     27 TTL from July 2005 till December 2007
     28 TTL from January 2007 till December 2010
     29 TTL from January 2011 till closure




                                                           60
Mario Pedini              FAO Consultant                                    Fisheries Specialist
N.R. Bhasin               Consultant                                        Livestock Specialist
                                                                            Finance and Micro Credit
Vijayasekar Kalavakonda   Sr. Insurance Specialist                 GFMDR
                                                                            Specialist
Maroti Upare              FAO Consultant                                    Fisheries Specialist
                                                                            Irrigation, Drainage
Anju Gaur                 Sr. Water Resources Specialist           GWADR
                                                                            Mechanization
Bekzod Shamsiev           Sr. Agriculture Economist                GFADR    Agriculture Economist
Helen Winifred Leitch     FAO Consultant                                    Dairy
Heenaben Yatin Doshi      Procurement Specialist                   GGODR    Procurement
Mohammed Atikuzzaman      Financial Management Specialist          GGODR    Finance
Kanv Garg                 Consultant                               GEEDR    Energy Specialist
Sanjay Vashishtha         FAO Consultant                                    Solar Energy Specialist
Suraiya Zannath           Sr. Financial Management Specialist      GGODR    Finance
Vanitha Kommu             Consultant                                        Environmental Specialist
Sanjukta Roy              FAO Consultant                                    Project Economist
Leena Malhotra            Program Assistant                        SACIN
Garima Sahai              FAO Consultant                                    Economist
Reena Gupta               Rural Development Specialist                      Forestry
Jai Mansukhani            Program Assistant                        SACIN
Gitika Hora               FAO Consultant                                    Social Development Specialist

     (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                           US$Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                      travel and consultant costs)
     Lending
       FY04                                                39.02                  152.31
       FY05                                                45.42                  147.45
                                  Total:                   84.44                  299.76
     Supervision/ICR
       FY04                                            00.00                        0.00
       FY05                                            15.14                       49.15
       FY06                                            35.56                       93.78
       FY07                                            20.24                       54.46
       FY08                                            35.13                      158.07
       FY09                                            28.63                      109.36
       FY10                                            46.39                      196.12
       FY11                                            32.69                      120.90
       FY12                                            26.03                       62.38
       FY13                                            21.81                       85.00
       FY14                                            22.07                       72.13
       FY15                                            12.00                       64.61
                                  Total:              295.69                     1065.96




                                                     61
62
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR


86.     Agriculture and allied sector play a significant role in the socio-economic
development of the State of Assam, as the sector continues to support over 75 percent of
the population of the State and directly or indirectly providing employment to about 50
percent of the workforce. The Government of Assam has always been on the task of
improving the agriculture and allied sectors in the State, and has taken up many programs
for development of these sectors. One such initiative was the World Bank financed Assam
Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project (ARIASP), which was taken up
during the period 1995-2004. That project had laid down the foundation of an integrated
development process in the agriculture and allied sectors of the State. Satisfactory and
successful completion of ARIASP facilitated the State in taking-up ‘Assam Agricultural
Competitiveness Project (AACP) from February 2005, which included World Bank credit
of US$ 154 million. In January 2012, AACP got an Additional Financing (AF) of US$ 50
million30 from the World Bank. AACP along with the Additional Financing was closed
on 15th March 2015.
Project Objectives and Components
87.    The main objectives of the project were to increase the productivity and market
access of targeted farmers and community groups. The key indicators of success was
envisaged as increased yields of crops, fish, and livestock products - complemented by an
increase in the proportion of marketed surplus. Although the over-riding objective is to
stimulate growth of Assam’s agricultural economy, project activities are predominantly
pro-poor, directed primarily at small and marginal landholders, poor fishing communities
and the landless.

88.     To achieve these objectives the Project supported a number of activities under
three components viz. (a) Investment Grant Scheme; (b) Agricultural Services and Market
Chain Development; and (c) Infrastructure Development.
Project Design
89.      The principal objectives of the Project, and the size and scope of the Project was
well thought out and focused on the objectives. Nevertheless, the design of the ‘marketing
extension subcomponent’ was not adequately designed during the original credit, though
this was corrected during the Additional Financing period. Similarly, uptake of the Low
Lift Pumps (LLP) by the farmers was low, as LLP depends on the perennial source of
water, which become scare in the dry season.
90.      The change in the grant pattern to 30 percent (from 70 percent during ARIASP)
during design for irrigation pumps and also the mandatory linkage to commercial bank’s
credit, caused severe setback initially, as farmers were not accepting such a drastic change
in the grant pattern. An apprehension in this regard was recorded in the Minutes of



30
  US$ 10 Million was cancelled in December 2013 as additional funds were available with the project due to exchange rate changes. 




                                                                   63
negotiation for the credit with the World Bank. However, this was corrected post MTR
and thereafter the Shallow Tube Well program was effectively implemented and farmers
contributed upfront very enthusiastically.

91.    Further, had the project design in case of fisheries could have provided for
marketing aspects to facilitate more remunerative prices to the fish farmers for their
produce.

92.     Notwithstanding, the project design immensely benefited the State by inducing
various institutional reforms initiatives and built the capacities of various implementing
agencies. The capacities of these agencies have been so well built in the areas of project
preparation, design, implementation, procurement, and evaluation that it would continue
to be an asset for effective preparation and implementation of any Externally Aided
Project, in addition to the regular departmental projects. This aspect is well reflected in
the World Bank funded project ‘Assam State Roads Project’, where the detailed design
of roads, bridges, preparation of DPR, procurement etc. are being carried out in-house,
resulting in substantial saving in cost.

93.    The pioneering community procurement model has been a great success and
brought a paradigm shift in managing community involved programs of the project. This
has created a vivid sense of ownership of the assets amongst the farmers and these assets
were put to more productive use by the farmers.

94.     The finance plus agenda of the additional financing (AF) viz. (a) Mainstreaming
management approaches and best practices - convergence of Central Sector Scheme
(CSS) ATMA into ARIAS Society, (b) Establishment of a Ground Water Monitoring
System, (c) Collaboration with private sectors – Formation of Farmer Producer
organization and (d) Pilot program on Solar powered minor irrigation pump sets (added
latter) was appropriate and the project successfully completed these activities.
Project	Appraisal	
95.     The Developmental Objectives were not changed during the life of the project.
However, the minor changes that were effected in the scope, size and small operational
modalities of some of the programs like in minor irrigation; farm mechanization;
community tanks, beels and farmers ponds in fishery; dairy; forestry; and rural roads; both
during the original credit & AF were essential and adequate. Similarly, it was also logical
to drop the sub-component of pilot Sericulture. However, it is felt that the quantum of
investments in farm mechanization could have been enhanced, commensurate to the
expanded command area through STWs. Similarly, more funding should have been
provided for roads connecting markets and productions hubs (like dairy & fishery), as it
gives additional benefits to the farmers.

Project	Implementation	

96.    The project, being a multi-sectoral, was implemented by the departments of
Agriculture (ATMA, minor Irrigation, Farm Mechanization), Animal Husbandry &


                                            64
Veterinary (Livestock & Milk Marketing), Fisheries, and Public Works Roads
Department and Assam Agricultural University, with a dedicated Project Coordination
Unit (PIU) to manage, supervise, monitor & evaluate project activities.

97.    Though the implementing agencies and other partners were too many,
coordination was efficiently and effectively managed by the ARIAS Society.
Implementation got expedited post MTR due to the concerted support and guidance of the
World Bank, dedicated effort by the PCU and the implementing agencies and the project
has been completed successfully. The arrangement of a ‘Nodal Officer’ in each of the
Project Implementation Units (PIU) at the Directorate level Head Quarter of the
implementing line departments and a corresponding ‘Coordinating Officer’ from the line
departments at the PCU has outstandingly helped in smooth coordination of the activities.

98.    Being a demand driven project, reputed and upright NGOs were involved to
ensure active participation of farmers and community in all the sectors for developing
community stewardship and formation of Community groups.

Performance of IDA
99.     Regular supervisions/ review missions and hand-holding by the World Bank have
outstandingly helped in achieving the project objectives. The Mission members have
always been very cooperative and the wrap-up discussions with topmost Government
level functionaries aided in resolving implementation issues very promptly. Field visits
by the mission members and the Aide Memoirs have provided an objective and useful
feedback for initiating corrective actions. The Task Team Leaders (TTL) of the Bank had
always been pro-active in providing guidance and advices. Overall performance of the
World Bank has been highly satisfactory especially post MTR.

100. The MTR mission of the World Bank had sorted out almost all the deficiencies of
the Project design by objectively assessing all the relevant aspects. Project had received
a focused attention from the IDA post MTR, and many micro implementation level issues
were sorted out. Close review and ample guidance on Safeguards related issues ensured
better community involvement and environmental mitigating measures. The support on
procurement and financial management ensured the fiduciary compliance and highest
level of transparency and efficiency. Over the 10 years of the project life, while only 12
percent of the project cost was incurred during the first 3 years, 40 percent of the cost was
incurred in next 3 years and the rest 48 percent was incurred during the last 4 years. This
was due to more closure technical support, and focused supervision by the Bank.
Performance of the Implementing Agencies
101. After removal of the initial constraints during MTR, performance of the
implementing agencies had improved considerably and the PCU played an efficient and
significant role in coordinating with the Bank, GoA, GoI and the implementing agencies,
and also ensured smooth fund flow across all the project locations.




                                             65
102. Government of Assam’s resolve to make AACP a success has ensured placing of
efficient Governmental staff in the PCU. The dedication and determination of the
implementing officials of the line departments, coupled with close monitoring and
supervision by PCU has made the project implementation smooth. Continuous efforts by
the PCU for building efficiency in the management of safeguards, procurement and
financial aspects brought a fair level of synergy & unity of purpose.
Project	Results	

103. The project directly benefitted about 565,745 beneficiaries of Assam as against
the envisaged 410,000 beneficiaries. Small, marginal and land less farmers31 communities
(consisted 96 percent of the direct beneficiaries under the project) were the key focus of
the project. The intensity of the activities in each district varied due to the demand-driven
nature of the beneficiary selection criteria. The outcome of the project has already been
recorded in other sections of this report.

KEY PHYSICAL OUTPUT & INTERMEDIATE OUTCOMES

104. The key physical output and the intermediate outcomes of the project have already
be recorded in other sections of this report and hence not repeated.

Reform Initiatives
105. AACP had induced various reform initiatives such as- (a) Assam Fish Seed Act in
2005 and its Rules in 2010; (d) establishment of ATMAs (b) statewide comprehensive
online groundwater monitoring system for sustainable use of groundwater; (c);
Amendment to the Fishery Rules to facilitate community oriented development of beels,
which is under active consideration by the State Government, following a demographic
survey of all the beels in the State; (e) Phased cost recovery for AI services; (f)
management takeover of the sick WAMUL by NDDB; (g) amendment to the JFM
principle regarding benefit sharing whereby, wherein the project JFMC, would be eligible
for 50 percent of the net receipts from main felling of trees from the forest land managed
by them; (h) complying with the covenant of funds for road maintenance; (i) Resettlement
and Rehabilitation policy that was prepared as part of the AACP preparation; (j)
constitution of Market Management and Development Committee in every market; etc.
Beneficiary Contribution & Sustainability
106. Beneficiary of the project have contributed total Rs.3427 million for participating
in different activities, which had ensured ownership, efficiency, and sustainability of the
project investments. The Sustainability Analysis report of the independent M&E
consultants shows that most of the project activities are sustainable.

Community Involvement & Social Profile



31   Small farmers own 1-2 ha of land, Marginal Farmers : 0.5-1 ha, Landless: 0-0.5 ha, Semi-Medium: 2-4 ha




                                                          66
107. Community involvement and participation through formation of community
groups was successfully done by involving NGOs. In all, 565,745 beneficiaries consisting
of small, marginal, & landless32 famers (constituted 96 percent of the total beneficiaries)
under total 123,436 groups were mobilized and trained for different activities. Of the total
beneficiaries 15 percent were women and 50 percent total beneficiaries were from
Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe, or Other Backward Class.
Lessons	Learned	
108. If design issues of a project is taken care of at a very early stage, projects can
deliver in a much faster way, e.g. - (a) a combination of change in grant & empowering
communities accelerated the implementation pace of the STWs and the project could
achieve a mammoth 40,000 STWs was achieved in just 3 years as against 60,000 STWs
in the initial 7 years; (b) while the project could complete 329 ha of beel fisheries in initial
3 years, 1431 ha was achieved in 6 years due to a change in the implementation criteria
of the beel development program; (d) the project completed 15915 ha of Micro Watershed
Development Program [MWDP] in the initial 8 years, but during the AF period total
16,821 ha was achieved in just 3 years due to changes in the operational guidelines for
MWDP; (e) similarly, changes in the implementation approach speeded up the market
infrastructure development program resulting in construction of 55 Markets in 3 years, as
against 38 Markets over 4 ½ years.

109. Deliverables of a project needs to be forecasted with a realistic implementation
schedule, with sufficient time for start-up activities and community mobilization.
110. Successful project interventions are normally mainstreamed by the line
departments in their own programs.

111. Projects with multiple implementing agencies should be monitored & coordinated
by an apex single entity (like ARIAS Society), for easier supervision, monitor, fiduciary
control, environmental & social safeguards and for greater operational synergies.

112. A clear objective strategy and transparent beneficiary selection criteria facilitate
smooth implementing of project activities, without any controversies or biasness.

113. Monitoring and Evaluation is an important tool for measuring project performance
against given indicators.

114. A well-knit rural road network can change the economy of an area and its impact
on the agricultural economy due to easy and faster access to the markets, availability of
quality inputs and increase in diversification to more high value crops.
Looking	forward	–	Next	Step	




32
     Small farmers own 1-2 ha of land, Marginal Farmers : 0.5-1 ha, Landless: 0-0.5 ha, Semi-Medium: 2-4 ha




                                                                  67
115. On successful completion of AACP, the GoA proposed a follow-on/new Project
to the GoI titled ‘Assam Agricultural Commercialization and Rural Transformation
Project’ and GoI has posed the project to the World Bank on 25th March 2015. The World
Bank vide letter of 27th April 2015 has inter alia mentioned that “The World Bank would
be pleased to work with the Government of Assam (GoA) to prepare this project”.




                                          68
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

   1.  Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No. 29580 IN, November 12, 2004
   2.  Project Paper (Additional Credit), Report No. 66052-IN, February 3, 2012
   3.  Aide Memoires and ISRs following Implementation Support Missions
   4.  World Bank Management Letters
   5.  India Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) FY 05-08 and FY 09-10
   6.  India Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) FY2013-17
   7.  Borrower’s Project Completion Report
   8.  First Six Monthly Subsequent Monitoring Report of M&E Consultant of Original
       Credit
   9. Second Six Monthly Subsequent Monitoring Report of M&E Consultant of
       Original Credit
   10. Third Subsequent Monitoring Subsequent Monitoring Report of M&E Consultant
       of Original Credit
   11. Fourth Six Monthly Subsequent Monitoring Report of M&E Consultant of
       Original Credit
   12. Fifth Six Monthly Subsequent Monitoring Report of M&E Consultant of Original
       Credit
   13. Final Impact Assessment Report of Original Credit
   14. First Six Monthly Subsequent Monitoring Report of M&E Consultant of
       Additional Financing
   15. Second Six Monthly Subsequent Monitoring Report of M&E Consultant of
       Additional Financing
   16. Sustainability Study Report of M&E Consultant of Additional Financing
   17. Final Impact Assessment Report of Additional Financing
   18. Report on Farmer Producer Organizations submitted by Deloitte
   19. Report on “Revisit on the Study on the Increasing Pattern of Use of Fertilizers,
       Pesticides……… ...in Assam”
   20. Hand Book of Statistic of Assam 2013
   21. Economic Survey of Assam 2013-14
   22. Status Report of Agricultural Technology Management Agencies
   23. Beneficiary Profile of Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project
   24. Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project Marketing and Value Addition
       Report of Agricultural Technology Management Agencies
   25. Tapping the Vast Agricultural Potential of Assam for a new ‘Green Revolution’
       World. Bank in India, March 2011
   26. Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project Community Procurement of Pump
       Sets and Using SMS for Communication. Innovations in Development Issue 3,
       2011
   27. Improving Lives through Irrigation: How Introducing Community Procurement of
       Pumps Raised Productivity in Assam. IFC Smart Lessons, January 2012
   28. Fish Farmers Meet New Technology Raising Aquaculture Productivity of Small
       Farmers in Assam. IFC Smart Lessons, November 2011



                                         69
MAP: Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project




                      70
