                              Document of
                          The World Bank




                                               Report No:ICR-000090




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-32850)

                                ON A

                LOAN / CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                         US$ MILLION46.49

                   (SDR 34.50 MILLION CREDIT)

                               TO THE

              PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                               FOR A

  FINANCIALINSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (FIDP)




                           August 07, 2006




Finance & Private Sector Development
World Bank Office: Dhaka
South Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           ( Exchange Rate Effective 06/30/2006 )
                                Currency Unit = Taka
                                    Taka 1.00 = US$ 0.01439
                                    US$ 1.00 = Taka 69.49

                                        Fiscal Year
                                      July 1 - June 30




                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAE   Accounts and Audit Expert
ABS  Asset Backed Security
ADB   Asian Development Bank
ALM  Asset Liability Management
BB   Bangladesh Bank
CAS  Country Assistance Strategy
CBSF Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility
CBSP Central Bank Strengthening Project
CDBL  Central Depository Bangladesh Limited
CLO  Collateralized Loan or Lease Obligations
CRAB  Credit Rating Agency of Bangladesh
CRISL Credit Rating Information and Services Limited
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DNS  Directorate of National Savings
DO   Development Objective
DOE   Department of Environment
DVP  Delivery vs. Payment
EGBM Enterprise Growth and Bank Modernization
ERD   Economic Relations Division
FA   Facility Adviser
FAPAD Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate
FI   Financial Institutions
FID  Financial Institutions Department
FIDP Financial Institutions Development Project
FMA  Facility Management Agreement
FSAC Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GDP  Gross Domestic Product
GOB   Government of Bangladesh
GSP  GSP Finance Co. (Bangladesh) Ltd.
ICB   Investment Corporation of Bangladesh
IDA   International Development Association
IDLC  Industrial Development Leasing Company of Bangladesh Limited
IMF  International Monetary Fund
IP   Implementation Progress
IPDC  Industrial Promotion and Development Company of Bangladesh Ltd.
IPFF Investment Promotion and Development Project

IRD    Internal Resources Division
IRR    Internal Rate of Return
ISR    Implementation Status Results & Report
IT     Information Technology
M & E Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG    Millennium Development Goals
MIS    Management Information System
MOF    Ministry of Finance
NBFI   Non-Bank Financial Institution
NBR    National Board of Revenue
NCB    Nationalized Commercial Banks
NPV    Net Present Value
NSS    National Saving Schemes
OD     Operational Directives
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PCB    Private Commercial Bank
PDO    Project Development Objective
PFI    Participating Financial Institution
PFIL   Prime Finance & Investment Ltd.
PMRs   Project Monitoring Reports
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSIC   Private Sector Industrial Credit
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
REPO   Repurchase Agreement
ROE    Return On Equity
SEC    Securities and Exchange Commission
SPV    Special Purpose Vehicle
TA     Technical Assistance
TB     Treasury Bond/ Bill
TDS    Tax Deducted at Source
TOR    Terms of Reference
UFIL   Uttara Finance & Investment Ltd.
ULC    United Leasing Company
WBG    World Bank Group




        Vice President: Praful C. Patel
      Country Director: Christine I. Wallich
       Sector Manager: Simon C. Bell
   Project Team Leader: Shamsuddin Ahmad

                                                     Bangladesh
                          Financial Institutions Development Project




                                                   CONTENTS




1. Basic Information.............................................................................................................. 1
2. Key Dates.......................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary.............................................................................................................. 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes .................................................................................................. 2
5. Bank Staff ......................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..................................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................... 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................ 19
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................... 25
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 28
11. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 32
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 34
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis............................................................................... 35
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .......................................................................................... 37
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing................................................................................ 38
Annex 4. Outputs by Component........................................................................................ 40
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis....................................................................... 44
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................... 46
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................ 49
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .................................................................... 50
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)............................................ 51
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................... 52
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................... 67
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 68

1. Basic Information

Country:                 Bangladesh             Project Name:           Financial Institutions
                                                                        Development
Project ID:              P044811                L/C/TF Number(s):       IDA-32850
ICR Date:                10/31/2006             ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                    Borrower:               GOB
Original Total
Commitment:              XDR 34.5M              Disbursed Amount:       XDR 34.5M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Bangladesh Bank
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

      Process              Date              Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:     03/24/1998         Effectiveness:     01/27/2000        01/27/2000
Appraisal:          11/15/1998         Restructuring(s):
Approval:           09/16/1999         Mid-term Review:                     11/20/2003
                                       Closing:           06/30/2005        02/28/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance       Indicators       QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any                                                  Moderately
time (Yes/No):                    No            Quality at Entry (QEA):           Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                         No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):     None

DO rating before Closing/Inactive
status:                           Satisfactory




                                                1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                          Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       1
Law and justice                                                         1                 1
Banking                                                                98
Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
savings                                                                                   1

Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement                                      1
Capital markets                                                                          48
General finance sector                                                                   49
                                                      Original Priority     Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Legal institutions for a market economy               Primary               Primary
Regulation and competition policy                     Primary               Primary
Other financial and private sector development        Primary               Primary


5. Bank Staff
                          Positions                          At ICR          At Approval
Vice President:                                        Praful C. Patel     Mieko Nishimizu

Country Director:                                      Christine I. WallichFrederick Thomas
                                                                           Temple

Sector Manager:                                        Simon C. Bell       Marilou Jane D.
                                                                           Uy

Project Team Leader:                                   Shamsuddin          Alfredo J.
                                                       Ahmad               Dammert

ICR Team Leader:                                       Shamsuddin
                                                       Ahmad
ICR Primary Author:                                    Tatiana Nenova
                                                       Sadruddin
ICR Co-Author:                                         Muhammad
                                                       Salman




                                                2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


6.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Context, Government Strategy, and Main Sector Issues
High growth rates in Bangladesh and steady progress towards the Millennium Development
Goal (MDG) targets have put forth the necessary conditions and timing for emphasis on
financial development in the country. Accordingly, one of the four pillars outlined in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2001-05 continues to be enabling private sector-led
growth through regulatory and structural reforms in the financial sector. The 2006-09 CAS
and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) 2003 emphasize the pillars of improved
investment climate, including deepening of banking and financial sector reforms, and
empowering the poor. The government's poverty reduction strategy, which relies heavily on
promoting rapid, job-creating economic growth, points to improved financial intermediation
in banks, non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs), and capital markets as a major
development component.

The financial sector of Bangladesh is characterized by the strong presence of commercial
banks. Nationalized Commercial Banks' (NCB) performance traditionally has been below
par, and their portfolios have been riddled with bad debt issues. Private banking has shown
more promise, but it remains small and can reach only a tiny portion of the private sector. As
a result, financing to the private sector is small, and long-term funds, particularly important
for growth and investment, are not available. The non-banking sector and capital markets are
of limited size. The relatively young NBFI industry is showing promise and dynamism, with
fresh and qualified human resources, improved balance sheets, and more efficient
functioning. The main impediment to NBFI development is the lack of viable options to
obtain loanable funds at long maturities and relatively low cost. In keeping with international
practice, a major source of financing for NBFIs is the debt securities market; however, it has
historically been underdeveloped in Bangladesh.

Debt market deficiencies in Bangladesh preclude NBFIs from raising major financing
through fixed-income securities. In particular, regulatory bodies have imposed heavy costs of
market access and regulatory compliance, including taxes and Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) fees. Furthermore, low investor, institutional, and regulatory awareness
and expertise on securities topics hamper development in this area. Finally, the debacle in
1996 during which debenture issuers massively defaulted is still fresh in the minds of the
investing public, eroding confidence in debt instruments. The ever-increasing budget deficit
has resulted in heavy borrowing from the general public as well as the banking sector
through unsustainably high-yielding savings schemes and other sovereign instruments, which
are also discouraging general investors from investing in other financial products. To
strengthen the Bangladesh financial sector, a strong focus is needed to develop debt securities
markets, as well as NBFIs and the sector's access to term financing, particularly through
fixed-income securities.




                                               3

Project Rationale
Banking sector issues have been addressed in the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(FSAC), carried out by IDA (1990­95), which aimed to improve regulations and supervision
of the banking sector, liberalize interest rates, and recapitalize NCBs. Furthermore, the
Private Sector Industrial Credit (PSIC) project (1993­97) promoted private sector
development by strengthening term lending by private financial institutions (FIs) and
supported reforms under FSAC for interest rate liberalization and loan recoveries. The
Central Bank Strengthening Project (CBSP) (1993­2007) is part of this ongoing effort and is
focused on fostering a strong and effective regulatory and supervisory system for the banking
sector. A concomitant project supporting this goal is the Enterprise Growth and Bank
Modernization (EGBM) (2004­09) work on NCB privatization (Rupali, Agrani, and Janata
Banks). The Asian Development Bank (ADB) carries out a fair amount of work on capital
markets - market infrastructure and capacity, and more recently, governance arrangements,
with limited if any focus on fixed-income securities. Given ongoing financial sector work by
World Bank and other donors, the FIDP project was focused on the remaining gap in the
donor agenda: strengthening NBFI term financing via debt security issuance.1

The FIDP was structured to assist the government in implementing its policy goals as
declared in the GOB statement of Reform Policy for the Non-Bank Financial Sector.2 In
particular, the project addresses the following sector issues: (1) strengthening the high-
performing part of the FIs by funding only those that meet stringent eligibility criteria; (2)
providing assistance to eligible FIs to develop their own funding mechanisms for term
financing; (3) ensuring that the government takes adequate steps to eliminate constraints to
the development of markets for term financing; and (4) strengthening the institutional
framework for term financing.




1 Given the commonality of regulations required for banks and non-banks, a strategic choice was made to leave
the recommended improvements of the regulatory framework for NBFIs­­provided for under project
preparation­­to CBSP. Similarly, streamlining court procedures for loan recoveries and establishing alternative
dispute resolution mechanisms was considered under the Judicial and Legal Reform Project (JLRP) (2001­07).
These choices allowed a sharper focus for FIDP, while addressing two important related activities as the core
focus under CBSP and JLRP.

2 Specifically, the following constraints were identified in the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) Policy Note
issued at the FIDP negotiations in 1999: (1) restrictions to institutional investors­­life insurance companies and
provident funds are not allowed to purchase private bonds; (2) issuance costs for corporate bonds are
significantly higher than in other countries because of taxes and high service charges; (3) there are no
benchmark interest rates from Treasury paper; (4) government saving rates­­the National Saving Schemes
(NSS)­­are much higher than market, crowding out any other investment instruments; (5) there is a lack of a
comprehensive set of guidelines by the SEC for issuing bonds and debentures; and (6) there is no secondary
bond market. Although markets have improved in Bangladesh along each of those dimensions during the FIDP,
further work remains in most areas.




                                                        4

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Project Development Objective (PDO)
The FIDP objective was to promote the development of NBFIs, in particular, and investment
financing, in general, on a sustainable basis that would contribute to improvements in the
quality of intermediation and the speed and efficiency of industrial growth in Bangladesh.

The sector-related CAS goal for FIDP was to support the government's poverty reduction
strategy of promoting rapid, job-creating economic growth by fostering the development of
investment financing on a sustainable basis. Measures on the increase in investment
financing served as key performance indicators. The critical assumptions made were that the
political and investment climate in Bangladesh was improved or maintained and that the
GOB would display an adequate commitment to implement financial sector reforms and
avoid policies that distort financial markets.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) lists the key performance indicators as follows:

    · Increased term financing by eligible NBFIs and other FIs (defined as cumulative
       disbursements of credit subcomponents to eligible FIs as a share of available funds,
       with the following target levels: 30 percent by the first year; 70 percent by the second
       year, and 100 percent by the third year).

    · Increased share of market sources of funds for eligible NBFIs and other FIs (defined
       as the market funds raised by FIs via bonds, debentures, and Asset Backed Security
       [ABS], as a share of disbursed IDA funds, with the following target levels: 10 percent
       by the first year, 25 percent by the second year, 50 percent by the third year, and 100
       percent by the fourth year).


6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

Not Applicable.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised

The project was expected to generate the following benefits:

    · Financial sector benefits. It would support the expansion of a more sound and more
       efficient part of the financial sector while the rest is being restructured. It would
       support the availability of term financing on a sustainable basis through strengthened
       FIs, increased availability of funds for term lending, and the development of the bond
       and securities markets. Specifically, the main beneficiaries of the TA component
       include Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs), other FIs, investors (insurance
       companies, pension funds, banks, other investors, individuals), and regulators
       (Bangladesh Bank [BB], the SEC, Ministry of Finance [MOF], Directorate of



                                               5

       National Savings [DNS], and Foreign Aided Project Audit Directorate [FAPAD]).

    · Overall economic benefits. It would promote increased efficient private investment
       in competitive projects that could generate economic growth and employment and
       provide the population with additional savings opportunities. Direct beneficiaries
       from the FIDP lending component include the companies borrowing from the
       program and increasing their investment, the new employees hired as a result
       (especially women), and customers who receive more (and arguably cheaper) goods.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project comprises two components: (1) resource mobilization and (2) strengthening FIs.

Component I: Resource Mobilization
The resource mobilization component addresses the external factors that delay or constrain
resource mobilization from the market. It aims to simplify and streamline regulations on
bond issues, create an even playing field for individual investors between market-traded
financial instruments and government-backed saving schemes, and develop benchmarks for
issuing term paper by strengthening government bond markets. These initiatives are aimed at
directly facilitating the development of NBFIs and improvement in the quality of
intermediation on a sustainable basis. The resource mobilization component contains the
following subcomponents:
    · Development and implementation of issue rules for bonds and debentures.
    · SEC training on fixed-income securities.
    · BB training on fixed-income securities.
    · Reform of NSS to bring the benefits of NSS closer to market-oriented instruments.
    · Development of procedures for the secondary Treasury bond (T-bond) market.

Component II: Strengthening Financial Institutions
The component to strengthen FIs consists of a Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility (CBSF) to
encourage the development of term financing through the NBFI sector.
    · CBSF      development: organizational structure, accounting and Management
       Information Systems (MIS), GOB / BB training, and the CBSF communications
       program.
    · CBSF management: CBSF operation, advice to FIs, maintenance of documentation,
       monitoring FIS and their eligibility, reporting and audit functions.
    · CBSF funding ­ provision of IDA support to FIs through a variety of mechanisms
       that increase their funding while enabling and encouraging them to mobilize
       medium- to long-term resources from the local market.
    · Capacity enhancement of FIs' business planning, resource management, and FI MIS.
    · PFI resource mobilization to develop capacity for issuing bonds, debentures and
       CLOs.
    · Revision of the CBSF mechanism as needed.




                                               6

6.6 Revised Components

Not Applicable.

6.7 Other Significant Changes

Fund Reallocation
The midterm review noted that PDOs were being achieved (participating FIs were raising
debt finance as well as term credit) without making use of the Standby and Liquidity
inducements provided under the project. Those mechanisms were not being demanded by the
market, because the debt securities issued by the participating FIs were placed privately with
investors, not issued publicly on the stock exchange. This was due, to a large extent, to the
fact that the legal and cost framework precluded public issues of fixed-income securities, to
which the abovementioned facilities were particularly tailored (this shortcoming is discussed
in detail in section 7). The midterm review found it expedient to reallocate the Standby and
Liquidity funds (US$17 million) to the Credit and Bridge facility toward a combined fund of
US$45 million (IDA portion was US$40 million). As noted, the new funds were linked to
matching debt issues, ensuring that future use of the Credit facility would be tied to
continued promotion of market debt instruments.

Extension of Project
At the project's completion, the government requested an extension because of the popularity
of the CBSF mechanism and, at that stage, IDA reallocated an additional US$2.6 million
from unused TA subcomponents toward CBSF funding (toward an overall allocation of
US$47.6 million/IDA portion US$42.6 million).




7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

A detailed background analysis was carried out during project preparation to determine
potential demand for funding by NBFIs and underlying corporate borrowers, and therefore
gauge the viability of the CBSF project component. During project preparation, an
assessment was made showing that a potential pipeline of sound projects exists. The project
preparation further included a thorough investigation of the NBFI sector, inquiring into the
availability of eligible NBFIs that would be interested in the project. Potential investors'
interest was also analyzed, with the conclusion that, indeed, this interest was present and
substantial, which also had been confirmed by the PSIC experience. Finally, the project
aimed to ensure government commitment to reform by requesting (and receiving) the GOB
statement of Reform Policy for the Non-Bank Financial Sector. These preparatory actions
show a sound judgment and careful assessment of the project viability, and (with the benefit
of ex-post vision) contributed significantly to project success.




                                                7

Several lessons learned from prior experience were reflected in the project design:
    · Focusing on main activities. Experience in Bangladesh has shown that focused
       operations have a much higher chance of success. Therefore, the project focused on a
       limited number of activities considered necessary and sufficient for achieving its
       objectives.
    · Addressing institutional capacity issues. Because of the complexity and innovative
       nature of the CBSF and its transitional nature, which does not require GOB
       institutional strengthening, the project financed an independent manager with
       international experience to administer the CBSF that reported to the BB.
    · Ensuring sustainability. The FIDP predecessor project, PSIC (see above), showed
       that beneficiary FIs in Bangladesh achieved limited increases in their own sources of
       funding, because there was no explicit mechanism to encourage or support FIs'
       development of funding sources. FIDP enhanced the possibility that participating FIs
       would raise funds from the market by (1) supporting the development of sources of
       funds for term lending through its 1:1 credit and other facilities, (2) increasing FIs
       fund-raising capabilities through TA and training, and (3) assisting in the
       development of regulations for bond markets, regulator training, and the elimination
       of cost barriers, crowding-out factors, and other impediments to bond market use.
    · Developing a realistic timetable. Although efforts were made to shorten the
       implementation timetable through TA and the choice of government agencies
       committed to the project, a realistic timetable was developed based on past
       experience, taking into account the procedures required to implement government
       actions in Bangladesh (for example, selection of consultants and issuing of decrees).

The project objectives were clearly defined, bearing a solid link to the country strategy and
needs, and addressing gaps in existing donor work. The three CBSF subcomponents formed
the core of the project: the development, management, and funding of the facility. The need
for each of the remaining subcomponents arose either as facilitation measures for the CBSF
functioning or as a risk-mitigation strategy. For example, SEC, BB, GOB, FI, and investor
training and capacity building were heavily emphasized because of the novelty of the project
subject matter. The debt issue rules subcomponent provided a legal basis for smoother
functioning of fixed-income securities issuance and securitization, on which the CBSF
focused. The Treasury paper subcomponent promoted liquid government securities with a
wider maturity structure and market-based rates, which facilitated fixed-income instruments
pricing. The NSS reform attempted to eliminate the risk of NSS certificates crowding out the
new debt instruments.

In contrast to the project structure and organizations, which were streamlined and simple, its
subject matter was technical and complex. Indeed, concerns were raised at project design
that the CBSF was ambitious, and with good reason. Suggestions were made to limit the
project to simple debt issues, instead of taking a further step to securitize these issues.
Hindsight suggests that the complexity created by securitization was not a hampering factor,
and the Bangladesh financial system absorbed the innovation smoothly.             Rather, the
mechanisms designed to service the public issuance of debt remained unused, while adding a
layer of complexity. This development, stemming directly from the lack of SEC commitment
to planned reforms could have been in principle foreseen at project design (and indeed was



                                               8

identified as a risk) ­ a detailed discussion of the issue is presented in section 7.2 below.
Partly out of such considerations, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rated the project
moderately unsatisfactory at entry. A detailed discussion of the QAG assessment is presented
in section 10 and annex 7.

The innovative nature of the project was addressed at project design by allocating an
adequate budget for regulator training and capacity building. A further step in this regard
could have been made, that is, to provide for a requirement that each regulating institution
prepare a training needs assessment. Planning training needs would have permitted
coordination among the agencies in the organization of training events, and could have
further improved matching between training needs and events offered by the project. A
separate communications program could have been outlined and budgeted for at the project
design phase to provide ongoing investor education and awareness raising in view of the
project's heavy innovative content. These omissions were caught and addressed at the
midterm review. The project complexity and innovative nature necessitated (and achieved)
the active development and involvement of the institutional investor base into debt securities
market issues.

Although the BB was designated as the implementing agency, the SEC and MOF were to be
closely involved in the project. The project designers were concerned about government
commitment and project manageability, so they limited to the extent possible the number of
government agencies involved. Because the BB and SEC both report to the MOF, they
ensured that the group was coordinated. Indeed, BB exhibited strong commitment to the
project, especially in the latter half of the project life cycle. The dedication sported by SEC
was more uneven.

The strictness of the eligibility criteria for FI participation in the CBSF determined the ease
of FI access to the securities financing program. More relaxed requirements would result in a
larger number of beneficiaries under the project and a wider impact. However, that also
carried the risk of lower-quality financial intermediation. The alternative approach of more
exigent screening would create the impression of benefiting a "select few" and would fail to
motivate medium-quality FIs to make the extra effort to improve their performance to the
requisite level. The project's complexity was already a factor for FI access to CBSF. Given
this trade-off, the fact that there were few mid-quality FIs, and the vital importance of
avoiding a second investor confidence failure in debt financing, a relatively more stringent
set of eligibility criteria was selected.

The project had environmental implications to the extent that the ultimate private sector
investments financed through the CBSF and external debt funding mechanisms would have
an environmental impact. To ensure proper environmental safeguards, all subprojects
financed through the participating FIs were subject to approval from the Bangladesh
Department of Environment (DOE). At project implementation, this presented a challenge
because of the inefficient operation of the DOE and associated delays (this issue is discussed
further in this section under "Implementation" and in section 8 under "Other Unintended
Outcomes and Impacts").




                                                 9

Government commitment risk was foremost in the mind of the project architects, because of
the fact that the project spanned a government election period, as well as because of the close
structural relationship that exists within a financial system between government and private
FIs and taxation issues. A particular concern voiced in the PAD was the risk that "NBR
[National Board of Revenue] may not reduce stamp duties and taxes on bonds," which was
mitigated by the GOB's formal announcement of its decision to eliminate or reduce the
stamp duty on bonds during negotiations and in the Policy Notes that the GOB issued in
preparation for the FIDP. In fact, the project experienced a slow removal of regulatory
obstacles and generally weak responsiveness at some levels of government, including the
NBR. Throughout the life of the project, in spite of gradual advances in suggested measures
facilitating the development of fixed-income securities markets, an unstable tax framework
prevailed. This contributed to poor predictability of market returns from different types of
fixed-income securities, as well as excess and unnecessary costs borne by the participating
FIs.

The PAD outlined several risk factors that stemmed from FI and underlying borrower
(supply) risks, investor (demand) risk, market environment risks, and policy (regulatory)
risks. Although the first three groups of market-related risks appear to have been successfully
mitigated, the policy (regulatory) concerns materialized to a large extent and were dealt with
continuously during the project. In addition to obtaining the GOB commitment before
project effectiveness, further remedial actions were taken during implementation. The risks
identified at appraisal were to the point and adequately addressed, which moved the project
to more solid ground. This mid-term improvement was due, in part, to the correction of
some design shortfalls, but mostly to the revamped government ownership, capacity, and
commitment to the project.

7.2 Implementation

Implementation Arrangements
The BB acted as the implementing agency of FIDP on behalf of the GOB's Finance Division
in the MOF, with support from the SEC and the DNS. A project steering committee­­headed
by the secretary of finance and representatives of the Economic Relations Division (ERD),
Internal Resources Division (IRD), SEC, and Finance Division­­managed the project and
was responsible for policy decisions and major implementation aspects of the project.

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Training, capacity building, awareness raising, and reporting/monitoring systems
development

GOB, SEC, and BB training. Training needs were met through a combination of theoretical
training and practical on-site study tours to build capacity and meet FIDP objectives. The BB
staff secondees to the CBSF developed the BB's capacity on debt instruments, securitization,
and CBSF management. A number of training opportunities and study tours were organized
under the FIDP. Training opportunities for government officials financed under the project
included training tours to several countries to visit the securities and financial sector



                                               10

regulators, institutions, and private market participants, and to exchange experiences and best
practice on debt instruments and asset securitization. Knowledge acquired from the training
program has significantly contributed to furthering the regulators' understanding of the issues
and increased awareness for the need of reform as well as for the achievement of project
goals. Market participants noted the capacity enhancement of BB staff as a result of the
training provided under the project.

PFI training and capacity building. With the assistance of the CBSF, various seminars,
training programs, periodic workshops, and teleconference events were arranged to assist the
PFIs in enhancing their capacity to develop strategic and business plans. PFIs have received
TA to strengthen their governance, reporting, monitoring, credit evaluation, ALM and
management practices, to name a few. Capacity was also built in environmental and audit
matters. CBSF has provided regular advice to PFIs on debt issuance planning, execution, and
documentation.

The project additionally heightened awareness of the importance of the debt securities
markets and related matters among key government agencies, including the SEC, MOF, and
IRD/NBR, as well as improved institutional investor awareness of and participation in the
NBFI sector through regular communications with the PFIs, prospective investors, merchant
banks and underwriters, credit rating agencies, insurance companies, journalists, and other
stakeholders.

CBSF reporting and monitoring systems development. CBSF developed an MIS and systems
for accounting, reporting, and monitoring. In addition, FIDP provided TA on MIS and
information technology (IT) systems development for PFIs. Several strategies were debated
here, ranging from a stand-alone PC solution for the CBSF, to an integrated harmonized
system linking CBSF to all PFIs. The harmonized MIS would maximize benefits of scale
achieved through CBSF connectivity and would facilitate monitoring; however, differences
in IT-readiness of PFIs caused deliberations and a delay in MIS implementation. Additional
delays were experienced as PFIs researched opportunities to finance the required TA and
software/hardware, which resulted in a disagreement with the BB over the nature of
financing allowed (grants versus loans), a detail that the FIDP documents failed to specify
clearly at project inception. The CBSF management successfully argued against an
integrated solution at the initial stages, instead implementing a functional standalone system
and preparing an MIS report assessing possible strategies for extensions.

Development and implementation of requisite market infrastructure for fixed-income
securities

Three major areas were identified that required reform to make the market placement of
fixed-income securities possible: SEC rules of issue, lower NSS rates, and a liquid TB
market. FIDP undertook actions in all three areas, as planned.

Developing and adopting SEC rules of issue. Draft SEC rules of issue were prepared by
expert consultants and submitted to the SEC, some legal modifications were implemented in
the capital markets rules, and training on corporate debt issuance was provided to GOB, BB,



                                                11

and SEC officials. Primary dealers formed a committee and conducted meetings concerning
trade and reduction of transaction charges; stock exchanges, the central depository company,
brokers, and dealers agreed to lower their respective fees for trading bonds. The extensive
public-private brainstorming, discussions, and debate around the fixed-income securities
issue have generated considerably more awareness in the country of securitization and
bonds, and have so far resulted in a follow-up securitization deal which occurred
independently of FIDP.

In spite of continual efforts on the part of most stakeholders and some government entities,
public issues of fixed-income securities were not achieved under the project. The GOB's
commitment to lower costs and to introduce legal changes, as professed in the GOB
statement of Reform Policy for the Non-Bank Financial Sector, wavered during the project.
The PAD notes the risk that "MOF and SEC may not coordinate adequately on Developing
the Bond Market," and the respective mitigation measure adopted, "[p]articipation of both
institutions under the project will ensure full coordination." In spite of these precautions and
the extensive cooperation of the SEC, the latter failed to adopt adequate Bond Issue Rules
during the life of the project. Instead, SEC has provided guidelines for the interim on
issuance (SEC Issue of Capital Rules 2001 on private debt and equity placements) and issued
the Asset Backed Security Issue Rules 2004. Those actions left the Bangladesh capital
markets without consolidated and updated rules for the issue of fixed-income securities.

Analysis in retrospect in cooperation with market participants, SEC, and the BB provides the
following insights into the possible reasons for this shortcoming. The specifications drawn
out in the draft debt issue rules, as cleared by the SEC and BB, might have involved too large
a package of diverse issues. As a result, the final draft created objections on the part of the
BB in the area of government securities issue rules, and on the part of the SEC in the area of
fixed-income securities rules. Tensions between the BB and SEC on the content of the rules,
and differing concerns on perceived shortcomings of the rules, ultimately eroded support for
the reform. These differences are being resolved and the expectation is to have the issue rules
reform moved forward. The SEC identified an additional reason for its reluctance to adopt
the issue rules, namely, their perception of the low need to reform the rules because of the
lack of market interest in issuing simple bonds and debentures at the prevailing high costs of
issue.

Lowering NSS rates. High-yielding government subsidized NSS instruments crowded out
potential issues of fixed-income securities. The alignment of interest rates of NSS with
market-oriented instruments was gradually addressed via the elimination of longer-maturity
NSS instruments, imposing a 10 percent withholding tax on NSS instruments from June
1999, and lowering NSS rates on three-year and five-year Sanchay Patras since 2003.3

Finally, FIs were made ineligible to hold NSS instruments, consistent with their social
objective of fostering savings among the very poor. NSS performance and economic role
were further analyzed under FIDP; the results of which are currently being reviewed by the
_____________________
3 The decrease in interest was from 12.5 percent and 12 percent on 3 and 5-year Patras to a low point of 10.5
percent and 10 percent, respectively; rates were raised again in March 2005 to 12 percent and 11.5 percent,
respectively. The 10 percent withholding tax rate was further reduced to 5 percent in July 2002.



                                                      12

GOB. Structuring follow-up IDA work in this area would greatly benefit from applying the
recommendations from this study.

A considerable challenge faced throughout FIDP implementation was the delay in hiring
consultants. Two particular cases stand out: (1) retaining consultants on fixed-income issue
rules discussed above and (2) hiring consultants for reform of NSS. The former procurement
suffered from a scarce supply of highly qualified bidders, which necessitated the repeated
issue of several expressions of interest. The issuance of the expressions of interest was
delayed mainly due to the lengthy process of finalizing the terms of reference (TOR), which
involved approvals at several government levels. Such delays derail the momentum for
implementation and impede the full achievement of project goals. Specifically, the time
available to reach government consensus over the issue rules was curtailed, thus lowering the
chances of successful reform in this area. Regarding the NSS, consultant procurement delays
left little time for further implementation of NSS structural and operational reform.
Difficulties with consultant retention might have been avoided at project design by pre-
identification of prospective consultant interest.

Developing a liquid TB market. For the purposes of the project, the most pressing needs
included the creation of procedures for a secondary TB market, as well as regular primary
auctions of 5- and 10-year TBs. Periodic auctions of T-bills have been held since October
2000. The BB operationalized the repo (repurchase agreement) system for the 28-day T-bills
in 2002, and the first repo transaction in Bangladesh was undertaken in January 2003. The
Central Depository of Bangladesh Ltd. (CDBL) opened the electronic registry for Treasury
paper in October 2003, and banks began secondary trading of scripless paper. The BB issued
5- and 10-year T-bonds for the first time in December 2003. Currently, auctions of T-bonds
are held bimonthly, but they do not involve many participants or large amounts. T-bills are
auctioned weekly. A provision was made to start trading T-bonds on the stock exchanges in
2005. A considerable role in these positive developments was played by the BB Governor,
in part under FIDP influence and lobbying.


Development, management, and funding of CBSF

CBSF development. The CBSF was established by the BB through FID Circular No. 07,
dated July 19, 1999. The GOB approved all CBSF founding documents. The BB issued
Operational Directives (ODs) for the CBSF. A Facility Adviser (FA) was competitively
selected to manage the CBSF. Because of the complexity and innovative nature of the CBSF
and its transitional nature, the project elected an independent manager with international
experience to administer the CBSF. An FMA was signed by the winner of the competitive
bid for CBSF management and the BB on December 28, 1999, for five years. The guidelines
for the Bridge and Standby facility were issued by the BB in 2001, followed by the
guidelines for the Liquidity facility in 2002. There were delays in instituting CBSF
management staff in place, as well as turnover in senior management, in part due to the
inexperience of the internally-hired consultant firm with local Bangladesh conditions, and a
gestation period of adjustment of BB mode of doing business with that of the FA company.
These hurdles could have been avoided by hiring a locally-savvy FA; however, the selection



                                               13

was based, with good reason, on finding the highest professional quality FA given project
complexity.

Pricing CBSF funds presented a challenge to the success of the project, because of changing
financial market conditions, on the one hand, and the lack of a reliable market Treasury
paper rate, on the other. As a second-best and only feasible solution, the pricing of CBSF
funds was set at a variable markup over a moving average of all Treasury paper in existence.
These considerations illustrate the difficulties of pricing CBSF debt at true market value in
underdeveloped financial market conditions.

CBSF management. The FA moved quickly to assess the eligibility of interested FIs, clear
their project participation with the BB, and sign Master Facility Agreements. CBSF offices
were set up and local staff were hired by the first half of 2001, and CBSF internal control,
accounting, management, and IT systems were set up with the assistance of an Accounts and
Audit Expert (AAE) in cooperation with the BB. Ongoing management issues were carried
out on a rolling basis, including staffing, reporting, monitoring, conducting internal reviews,
assessing the suitability of FIs, conducting regular reviews of the PFIs and the subloans and
leases, monitoring PFI debt issuance in connection with the matching credit facility,
investing CBSF liquid assets, administering requests for access to facilities, and providing
continual reports to the BB on CBSF and FIDP development.

A challenge that arose during the CBSF management was presented by the state audit body,
FAPAD, which was also slated to perform the external audit for CBSF. In particular, the
auditor lacked sufficient specialization in financial matters to understand the complex
functioning of the CBSF, causing delays in requiring multiple clarifications and issuing a
number of objections (mostly of a trivial nature) to the audit statements. To clarify the issues
and observations, as well as to reduce future FAPAD observations, tripartite "exit" meetings
were held with IDA, the project team, and FAPAD before audit reports were finalized. These
meetings reduced trivial audit issues and improved qualitative observations that reflected
technical specifics of the project.

CBSF funding. FIDP effectively injected into the Bangladesh economy scarce long-term
funds for investment and private sector growth (see section 8.2 for details), while
experiencing no delays or defaults in payment by PFIs. These results relied heavily on a
number of other outcomes that have been achieved under the FIDP, including the following:
(1) progress in alignment of NSS rates with the market, (2) stimulation of liquidity and
trading of TBs (the first reverse repo transaction occurred under the project), (3) advances in
the regulatory framework for bond issuance, and (4) intensive regulator and other
stakeholder training.

The midterm review was instrumental in quickly addressing the challenges encountered
during the CBSF funding operations and, specifically, the lack of market interest in the
Standby and Liquidity Facilities (discussed in section 6.5, "Other Significant Changes").
Funds were promptly reallocated to their best alternative use and the refocused project was
enabled to continue functioning smoothly.




                                               14

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project has set forth benchmarks and performance indicators to evaluate progress on
individual subcomponents (see annex 1 of the PAD). These indicators were agreed upon
during negotiations and were reviewed periodically to determine their effectiveness against
performance standards and implementation schedules (see Implementation Status Results
and Reports [ISRs] 1­12). IDA undertook a midterm review during project implementation.

The focus of the project, to promote the development of investment financing on a
sustainable basis and improve the quality of intermediation, translates well into the two
performance indicators used to monitor progress of the PDO: (1) "increased term financing
by eligible NBFIs [and] other FIs," and (2) "increased share of market sources of funds for
eligible NBFIs and other FIs." The data for measuring these indicators were sourced directly
from the projects, as well as the financial sector statistics prepared by the BB, and were
reliable, high quality, up to date, and amply available. Perhaps advancing one step further,
the indicators devised for the TA subcomponents of the project, as reflected in the PAD,
could have been quantified at the design stage as well (which, indeed, was done at the ISR
stage). The Measurement and Evaluation (M&E) framework, which indeed might not
withstand the high standards currently imposed on new projects, in view of the considerable
recent emphasis on the M & E agenda, can be found generally adequately designed when
compared with projects of this older generation, and the performance indicators were
sufficiently specific, measurable, attributable, realistic, and targeted.

The FIDP has several levels of M&E arrangements built in by design. First, because of the
financial nature of the operation, internal controls were implemented at the BB-CBSF-PFI
level to ensure timely detection of problems, if any. Specifically, PFIs (1) verified the status
of subprojects supported under the CBSF by on-site inspection; (2) prepared periodic
subloan portfolio management and progress reports covering operations under the credit; and
(3) undertook quarterly and annual assessments of the demand for funds from the CBSF. In
turn, the CBSF and BB monitored PFIs and presented regular reports to IDA, including (1)
CBSF monthly reports with key data on utilization and status of its facilities and financial
statements; (2) CBSF quarterly reports on facilities' implementation; (3) CBSF semi-annual
assessments of the FIs' demands for CBSF facilities; and (4) CBSF annual cash flow and
balance sheet projection. The BB reported to IDA on a quarterly basis on the progress of
each of the TA subcomponents. Additionally, the CBSF had an internal MIS and accounting,
reporting, and monitoring systems.

As noted in the discussion of M&E design and implementation, the data used to monitor the
project and inform decision making and resource allocation were reliable. The two PDO-
linked numeric performance indicators, as well as the qualitative indicators used to measure
progress along the TA subcomponents of the project, were of considerable value to ensuring
that the project was maintained on track and ultimately were successful. Performance
indicators were collected largely in a timely fashion, and the indicators helped determine the
fund reallocation at the midterm review (see section 6.5, "Other Significant Changes").




                                               15

As designed, the CBSF M&E arrangements would have been sustainable beyond the FIDP
implementation period and could have been utilized by the BB to continue to monitor and
evaluate the CBSF operations, had the CBSF been kept in operation by the BB, as originally
planned. Instead, focus currently is being shifted to infrastructure finance (the Investment
Promotion and Financing Facility [IPFF]), which is a natural extension and successor
operation of the FIDP (see discussion in section 7.5, under "Postcompletion Operations: The
Next Phase").


7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial Management, Procurement, and Disbursement

Procurement
The BB ED, who was the FIDP director, was responsible for procuring goods, consultant
services, and training for Component I (resource mobilization). He was also responsible for
contracting the facility manager and training the GOB/BB personnel under Component II
(strengthening FIs). Per the FIDP ISRs, there appear to be no obvious and systematic
procurement or financial management issues.

Financial management and reporting arrangements
The BB maintained a computerized financial management, accounting, disbursement, and
reporting system for the project in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
and practices. The accounts and records were verified and audited by the FAPAD, the
supreme audit body in Bangladesh. To facilitate financial management and reporting
arrangements, the project engaged a full-time AAE external to the BB, who reported to the
project director and supervised accounting and reporting issues. The AAE prepared quarterly
and annual accounts and generated quarterly reports to ensure consistency with IDA's
requirements under Operational Policy/Bank Procedure (OP/BP) 10.02. Internal controls
included a separate Project Audit Committee, proper segregation of functional
responsibilities, signing of checks after clearance by the AAE, verification of procurement
proposals, monthly reconciliation of bank accounts, and regular detailed reporting.
Participating FIs submitted annual audit reports to BB/CBSF management and IDA.

Disbursements
A special account was opened with the BB. Disbursements were made by the BB to the
beneficiary agencies on a reimbursement basis directly from the special account. The Project
Monitoring Reports (PMRs) have been prepared accurately and submitted to the Bank in a
timely manner. The project, however, did not computerize its accounts for two reasons. First,
the stand-alone PC-based solution used during the life of the project was judged to be
adequate until the CBSF was closer to becoming an independent entity (a plan that was later
revised). Second, the expediency of harmonizing the computer systems of all PFIs was
reconsidered (see the PFI Capacity Enhancement subcomponent).

FIDP was a FIL operation (Financial Intermediary Loan), and as such is subject to OP8.30.
Specifically, relevant issues under the rule include the eligibility criteria for participating FIs,



                                               16

onlending terms, as well as the procedures in support of market-based interest rates. While
the mid-term review does not discuss compliance with OP 8.30, it can be noted that the rule
has been closely observed, and has contributed to the success of the project. For example,
take the requirements for onlending terms, namely, that funds be priced competitively and
based on market prices, and in the absence of a market, that rates be non-negative in real
terms, provide adequate margin to FIs, and not discourage resource mobilization from the
market. Referring to the discussion of procedures used by CBSF to price onlent funds, rates
were set administratively in the absence of a market, but linked to Treasury paper rates, and
assuring both an adequate margin for PFIs (resulting profit figures quoted in section 8.2) as
well as encouraging PFIs to raise their own funds (resulting funds raised outside of CBSF
during the project also discussed in section 8.2).

Environmental Assessment
Industrial development has an impact on the environment. Accordingly, the project was
classified in environmental category B, because some of the subprojects selected for
financing through the CBSF mechanisms were likely to fall under the red or orange
categories as classified by the Bangladesh DOE. Based on OD 4.01, no separate
Environmental Analysis or Environmental Management Plan was undertaken because any
potentially polluting subloans required a separate clearance from the DOE.

To address environmental concerns, three types of actions were taken:
    · As criteria of eligibility for participation under the CBSF, FIs had to prove that their
        subproject approval procedures include verification of DOE clearance.
    · Processing the subprojects under the credit facility depended on whether they fell
        under the red, orange, or green industrial categories, as established by the DOE.
        Applications for subproject disbursement required DOE clearance for those
        subprojects that fell under the orange and red categories.
    · To ensure that appropriate training is available for FI staff to fulfill the role of
        environmental compliance officer, the project includes an environmental compliance
        course in its FI capacity building subcomponent.

In practice, DOE clearances proved problematic to obtain because of DOE inefficiency of
operation and associated considerable delays in obtaining clearances (see section 7 under
"Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry" and section 8 under "Other Unintended
Outcomes and Impacts").


7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition Arrangements
During the initial stages of the FIDP, the CBSF was contemplated as a sustainable entity,
which could continue its existence beyond the project end and potentially be privatized. The
proposal to privatize the CBSF was not supported by the GOB at the midterm review or at
earlier implementation stages. Subsequently, the MOF and the steering committee of the
project agreed to keep the CBSF within the FID of the BB. Necessary arrangements were
made for transferring facility management skills to qualified local professionals and local



                                               17

consultants as well as to the BB's secondees. The CBSF was transferred to the FID on
February 14, 2005. The final decision was to stop new lending and eliminate the CBSF
altogether, following the retirement of all outstanding loans and full collection of proceeds.
In the interim, and while FIDP operations are ongoing on a retirement basis, continued
project monitoring might be linked to FSAP and / or financial sector indicators as prepared
by the FPD anchor, such as volume of new fixed income securities issuance relative to GDP
/ stock market size. Considerations for this decision included the inability of the CBSF to
operate the liquidity facility, because of its status as a government entity, and existing
investment restrictions in the banking sector by government entities. Additional
considerations might have played a role, such as GOB budget constraints and the fact that the
coming year is an election year. The funds were transferred into the GOB Treasury, while
new funds in roughly the same amount have been committed by the GOB as co-financing of
IPFF.

Next Phase: Follow-up Operations
Several new avenues for potential IDA involvement have opened up as a result of the FIDP,
including some of the following: (1) further strengthening of the fixed-income securities
market, (2) stronger enforcement powers for the SEC, (3) delays of SEC public issue
clearances, (4) accumulation of credit rating experience and capacity, (5) further
development of CDBL and dematerialization of securities, (6) computerization of NSS and
overhauling of the DNS, and (7) development of an interbank money market. These issues
are discussed in more detail below.

Strengthening of the fixed-income securities market to continue the work of FIDP, especially
in areas where the project fell short of fully achieving its objectives or the underlying
potential. One such area remains the issue of adequate fixed income securities public issue
rules. SEC's ongoing reform work on fixed-income securities issue rules, in cooperation with
the Reserve Bank of India and ULC, demonstrates continued reform for further improvement
of the framework and should be supported. Furthermore, if the public debt market is to take
off, there is a need to encourage a greater variety of institutional investors with a long-term
investment horizon like mutual funds, pension funds, and so. Issuance and transacting debt
instruments in a dematerialized form would help reduce costs further.

Mortgage-backed bonds could be considered as a market for development and promotion
assistance on the part of the World Bank. Mortgage-backed bonds pool housing loans and
match the investment needs of institutional investors within permitted regulatory guidelines.
There would be a significant need for coordination with government in overcoming
regulatory and market hurdles. The mortgage-backed market development hinges on the
adequate resolution and sound functioning of the legal, regulatory, institutional, and
structural aspects of primary markets. The development of this market is a high priority
given the lack of housing finance (and significant and growing demand for it), as well as the
expected further increase in the importance of financial institutions who require high returns
on long-term funds, such as pensions, investment funds, and insurance companies.

In the area of mortgage-backed finance, there is considerable potential for cooperation with
the International Finance Corporation (IFC). A July 2006 study commissioned by the IFC



                                             18

provides further details on priorities in the development of the mortgage-backed debt market.
The study suggests, in particular, that "a housing finance project could serve as a stand-alone
project for the WBG, representing a combination of policy and institutional reforms led by
IDA/IBRD along with direct interventions and targeted TA from the IFC."

SEC enforcement.To assure market confidence and provide a strong framework for debt
issuance capable of supporting the various initiatives suggested above, such as mortgage-
backed securities, the SEC would require training, adequate staffing, and strong monitoring
and enforcement powers on the book and in practice. As part of the needed SEC overhaul,
some lengthy procedures could also be trimmed and streamlines. For example, the time taken
by SEC to vet prospectuses for public issues could be aligned to market reality and needs.

Improved financial market information is needed in the Bangladesh environment. Two credit
rating agencies­­Credit Rating Information and Services Ltd. (CRISL) and Credit Rating
Agency of Bangladesh (CRAB)­­have opened in Bangladesh, and are in the process of
developing adequate capacity. A promising avenue for public-private partnership for reform
might focus on establishing an information clearing house, to remedy the existing constraints
of access to and availability of needed market information.

NSS analysis. Further follow-up should be implemented using the NSS analysis carried out
under FIDP and its recommendations, including the computerization of NSS which was not
addressed under FIDP. NSS follow-up would permit an assessment of the impact on the
GOB budget, and structural and operational reforms of the DNS in view of effective market-
oriented savings schemes. Structuring the follow-up IDA work in this area would greatly
benefit further development of the financial sector, by helping create an efficient, customer-
oriented, viable, and modern DNS, which would reduce the cost of borrowing for the
government and give an impetus to the development of the capital market.

Electronic registry. Following recent advances in CDBL in the TB area, further facilitation
and development of the securities market is in order. Clearing outstanding legal ambiguities,
depository participants licensing issues, reporting arrangements, and decision-making
prerogatives among the BB, MOF, SEC, and CDBL would vitalize these markets. Over time,
the CDBL has the potential to cover all transactions related to primary issues of T-bills,
government bonds, secondary trading of TBs, interbank repos, and repos between the BB
and commercial banks, as well as operate an equity share registry and a registry for corporate
fixed-income securities. In addition to their direct effect on debt markets, these developments
would aid the formation of a yield curve in the TB market and the pricing of bond issues,
along the lines of the FIDP subcomponent on the Treasury Paper Market.




8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The FIDP remains highly relevant to the development of Bangladesh, as measured against
the current objectives of the 2005 CAS/PRSP update. The current high growth rates of the



                                                19

country (5 to 6 percent) put a strain on the capacity of the financial system to fund the private
sector investment needed to sustain this pace of growth. Failure to develop the long-term
lending capacity of the financial system threatens the maintenance and further increases of
the country's growth rates. The stable macroeconomic environment, high economic growth,
and declines in population growth, accompanied by significant improvements in education
and poverty reduction, render the country situation ripe for an active push toward financial
development.

The 1998 CAS pillar of building a supportive environment for private sector growth,
especially in the financial sector, has been re-echoed in the latest 2005 CAS/PRSP update,
which emphasizes an improved investment climate, including a deepening of banking and
financial sector reforms. The Bank was responsive to the changing needs of the country and
the operation remained important to achieving country and Bank objectives. Follow-up work
undertaken under the FIDP also remains important (see section 7, under "Next Phase:
Follow-up Operations").

The project design and implementation aptly address the financial sector gaps in
development, in particular issues related to the NBFIs. To summarize (see section 6), a
preponderant commercial banking sector in Bangladesh remains inefficient and in need of
restructuring (Bank work is ongoing in this regard), and a dynamic non-banking sector is
starved of long-term funding, which is particularly important for growth and investment.
Accordingly, the FIDP was designed to (1) help directly increase the long-term financing of
NBFIs; (2) focus on developing the capacity of NBFIs to raise term finance in the most
promising mechanism in existence, namely the debt securities market; and (3) ease
regulatory and market obstacles to such financing going forward. In terms of project
implementation, the country needs didn't change during the project; however, the extent of
feasible implementation was decreased (that is, public issuance of fixed-income securities
proved unattainable during the project) and the project responded to these changing
circumstances by a budget reallocation during the midterm review (see section 6.5, "Other
Significant Changes").


8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives



The sector-related CAS goal for FIDP was to support the government's poverty reduction
strategy of promoting rapid, job-creating economic growth by fostering the development of
investment financing on a sustainable basis. The FIDP objective was to promote the
development of NBFIs, in particular, and investment financing, in general, on a sustainable
basis that would contribute to improvements in the quality of intermediation and the speed
and efficiency of industrial growth in Bangladesh.4 The project activities can be broadly
_________________________
4 The DCA presents the PDO as "to promote the development of financial institutions and improvements in
investment financing on a sustainable basis through strengthening the quality of intermediation with the aim of
increasing industrial growth in Bangladesh", in a slight inconsistency with the PAD. This more general version
of the PDO is somewhat unsuitable as it is difficult to measure and does not come with any baseline indicators.




                                                        20

captured as contributing to this end, though it might be difficult to formally establish the
causal link between FIDP activities and the PDO. The following measures on the increase in
investment financing served as key performance indicators:
    · Increased term financing by eligible NBFIs and other FIs (defined as cumulative
        disbursements of credit subcomponent to eligible FIs as a share of available funds,
        with the following target levels: 30 percent by the first year, 70 percent by the second
        year, and 100 percent by the third year)
    · Increased share of market sources of funds for eligible NBFIs and other FIs (defined
        as the market funds raised by FIs via bonds, debentures, and ABS, as a share of
        disbursed IDA funds, with the following target levels: 10 percent by the first year, 25
        percent by the second year, 50 percent by the third year, and 100 percent by the
        fourth year)

One could consider that the utilization of the facility is a weak performance indicator for the
attainment of the PDO, as it might be considered more of an input indicator. Given the
generality of the PDO, adequate measurement call for the achievement to be inferred from
associated outcome indicators, and the ICR does do this through looking at the amount of
"matching funding" obtained by the NBFIs from the marketplace, the second measure listed
above. This appears a robust and measurable indicator and it does reflect a healthy use of
market instruments. The key indicators' performance over the life of the project is presented
in table 1.

Impact of the Project                                 Table 1. Performance of Key Indicators
FIDP established the CBSF and disbursed          PSR date     PDO1     Target1 PDO2        Target2
term funding of US$45.6 million (Tk 2.6          10-Apr-00       0%           0       0%         0
billion). Under the project, the participating    22-Sep-00      0%           0       0%         0
FIs raised term finance by issuing US$38.4        27-Feb-01     33%         30%       0%         0
million (Tk 2.4 billion) in fixed-income          05-Sep-01     41%         30%       0%         0
securities to outside investors such as banks    04-Mar-02      41%         70%       4%       10%
and insurance companies. Effectively, FIDP        08-Sep-02     59%         70%      40%       10%
injected into the Bangladesh economy             06-Mar-03      80%       100%       56%       25%
scarce long-term funds for investment and         06-Sep-03     81%       100%       55%       25%
private sector growth. The first securitized     31-Mar-04      59%       100%       68%       50%
asset sale in Bangladesh took place under         30-Sep-04     68%       100%       60%       50%
the project in November 2004. The project        16-May-05      99%       100%       90%      100%

mitigated or completely overcame some of         11-Nov-05      99%       100%       92%      100%
the existing impediments to securitized           30-Jun-06    100%       100%       94%      100%
transactions, including lack of legal and        Source: BB data.
                                                 Note: PSR = Project Status Report; PDO = Project
institutional infrastructure, high issuance      Development Objective.
costs, high regulatory compliance costs, and
lack of sufficient local skills, and came a long way toward creating an enabling environment
for securitization in Bangladesh.

The newly raised funding was used by six PFIs to finance the setting up or expansion of 147
subprojects in various sectors, such as ready-made garments, food, textiles, transportation,
ceramic, power, education, medical, accessories, and so on. Till end of the project, these



                                               21

subprojects had generated direct additional employment of 14,218 employees, a major
portion of which included women, and additional profits of Tk 3,842 million for the
borrowing subprojects.

A total of Tk 957 million (US$16.2 million) in simple credit was disbursed throughout the
life of the project to all six PFIs, which was used for 53 leases and eight loans. In contrast,
much more was disbursed to all six PFIs in 1:1 credit: Tk 1,570 million (US$26 million) was
used for 63 leases and 11 loans. The bridge financing was used by two PFIs, in the total
amount of Tk 119 million (US$2.1 million), for 12 leases. The reason for the sparse usage
was that the debt issues were immediately matched by 1:1 credit, which was disbursed upon
security issuance, thus making the bridge financing redundant in the CBSF structure that
actually was implemented. The total credit disbursed under the project amounted to US$43.3
million. Each of the six PFIs issued bonds and debentures (a total of 23 issues to 22
investors) in the amount of Tk 1,408 million (US$23 million), and three PFIs issued ABS for
a total of Tk 949 million (US$15 million). Issuing debentures and bonds to private investors
is not an initiative that would have taken place without the FIDP support and this should be
seen as one of the key achievements of the project. For example, the Tk 5 billion debt raised
by PFIs from CBSF financing and their own resource mobilization efforts under the FIDP
can be put into a capital markets context by comparing it with the Tk 5.9 billion of total
equity capital raised via the Bangladesh capital markets during the same five-year period.
The FIDP was the first and (at the time) sole source of debt transactions in Bangladesh.

The project also strengthened the financial condition of the PFIs. By November 2003, these
PFIs increased their assets by US$192.67 million and generated total profits of US$20.81
million, of which US$11.02 million was retained in the business as reserves and retained
earnings. PFIs have been introduced to the practice of continually meeting the prudential
eligibility requirements established by the CBSF, such as capital adequacy; loan loss
provisions; acceptable debt-equity and collection ratios; prudent single borrower, group, and
industry/subsector exposures; and minimum debt service cover ratios. In addition, PFIs have
received TA to strengthen their governance and management practices; Treasury operations;
credit evaluation techniques; and ALM capabilities, to name a few.

Moreover, CBSF's activities have added significant value to the development of financial
markets in Bangladesh. The CBSF has provided liability diversification for the PFIs, as well
as matching funds that have helped strengthen the PFIs' balance sheets and improve their
asset liability matching. Thus, their five-year loans have been matched with FIDP's five-year
money. These loans, otherwise, would have been funded with short-term borrowing by these
PFIs. The CBSF funding has enabled the PFIs to develop scale and momentum in their debt
issuance, in the process helping improve practices in related areas, such as the use of issue
trustees. CBSF's operations were carried out without a single PFI default throughout the life
of the project.

A number of other outcomes have been achieved under the project, such as progress in
alignment of NSS rates with the market, stimulation of liquidity, trading of TBs (the first
reverse repo transaction occurred under the project), advances in the regulatory framework
for bond issuance, and intensive regulator and other stakeholder training. Details on the



                                               22

project results by subcomponent are provided in annex 4 of the Implementation Completion
and Results Report.

The first securitized asset sale in Bangladesh took place under the project in November 2004.
FIDP took various steps under several of its subcomponents to create an enabling
environment for securitization, overcoming impediments such as the lack of legal and
institutional infrastructure to support such instruments; high issuance costs; high regulatory
compliance costs; and lack of sufficient local skills to manage such deals. Despite the           5

shortfall in expected results under some FIDP subcomponents (see section 8.4), market
participants opined that the project came a long way toward creating a facilitating
environment for securitization in Bangladesh. Further, after the project closed, a
securitization of microcredit receivables by the Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee
took place in July 2006, which was a pioneering transaction in financial markets.


8.3 Efficiency

A conservative estimate of the project's impact during its implementation phase, taking into
account the revenues generated by the investment subprojects minus the cost of funding,
shows an external rate of return of 14 percent (over the IDA funds) and a net present value
(NPV) of US$5.49 million (base case) (see annex 5). Given the absence of any credit defaults
in this operation and the positive return to GOB, the exercise has been essentially self
financing (GOB has a surplus having repaid IDA in full). OP 8.30 establishes a methodology
for the extension of directed credit, in view of the risks of crowding out and misallocation of
capital. A Bank FIL may support directed credit programs to promote sustained financing for
underserved sectors, provided the programs are accompanied by reforms to address the
underlying institutional infrastructure problems and any market imperfections that inhibit the
market-based flow of credit to these sectors. In this sense, FIDP passes the OP 8.30 test. The
further requirements include, among others, that such reforms include measures to address
obstacles that impede the flow of funds to the credit recipients. In this case, CBSF played
such a role.

The long-run benefits are expected to be higher. An overall benefit of the project is that it
supports the expansion of a more sound and efficient part of the financial sector, providing
alternative opportunities for savers and increasing the supply of term funds for competitive
projects that generate economic growth and employment. The project increased available
funds for investors through eligible FIs, strengthening the efficient FIs and increasing the
number of investment projects. The main economic benefit is the establishment of a self-
sustainable efficient system of intermediation for term financing; the assessment of this fact
requires a longer observation period. Until now, we have observed one follow-up operation

______________________

5 Specific measures achieved under the FIDP subcomponents were as follows. The NBR waived the SPV, a
legal entity engaged in securitization, from paying income tax, stamp duty, and VAT. The SEC reduced its
issue and consent fees, and adopted the new Asset Backed Security Issue Rules 2004. Income taxes were
waived on ABS interest income up to Tk 25,000, and taxed at the rate of 10 percent thereafter (subsequently
repealed). PFI, investor, and regulator training on securitization considerably contributed to the process.




                                                       23

(outside of the project) of securitizing assets and issuing ABSs for microfinance. A pretty
convincing argument suggests that the deal was structured as a result of the awareness
raising and capacity building efforts of the CBSF. Whether the market will further pick up
the mechanism and use it more readily in the future is a matter of longer-term verification;
however, preliminary indications from discussions with market participants are promising,
and there has already been a history of one independent securitization deal following FIDP
closing.


8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The project exhibited high relevance of objectives, design, and implementation. It achieved
its PDOs (PDO1 was fully achieved, while PDO2 was achieved at 94 percent). The project
was efficient per standard measures of the internal rate of return and NPV, as presented
above and in annex 5. Furthermore, the project subcomponent objectives were largely
achieved, with minor shortcomings, specifically the following: (1) issue rules were
developed and implemented, but not at the high-quality standard that one could desire; (2)
the GOB, BB, and SEC training was fully achieved; (3) NSS deviations from market terms
were reduced, but more can be done; (4) a secondary market for Treasury securities was
developed; (5) the CBSF was developed, managed, and funded adequately; and (6) PFI
capacity was enhanced and they were helped to mobilize resources, although the life of the
CBSF ideally would have been prolonged even if that was not part of the FIDP objectives.
The broad activities achieved through the technical assistance component and the private
sector activities prompted (and at least assisted) by this project suggest a satisfactory
assessment for the Overall Outcome Rating.


8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The financing provided under the FIDP generated investment and employment, and
ultimately, growth in key sectors of the Bangladesh economy. Such analyses typically suffer
from attribution difficulty; therefore, we present here only direct impacts immediately
resulting from the corporate investments funded by the PFIs, as reported by each borrowing
company. The following impact of CBSF's term financing on the development of priority
and emerging sectors can be reported.
    · Financing the development/priority sectors: Ready-Made Garments (RMG), Food,
        Textile, and Transportation are the four sectors that have received a major part of
        CBSF's term financing. These four sectors are priority sectors of the country for
        development, and other emerging sectors like Ceramic, Power, Accessories, and so
        on have received substantial support from the project.
    · Capacity enhancement: The subprojects have added good value to the production
        capacity of the priority and emerging sectors. While overall measures are difficult to
        quote (mainly due to measurement and aggregation issues), one example of enhanced


                                              24

        capacity in the RMG sector alone, is that six subprojects supported by the CBSF
        between 1999 and 2003 have increased the production capacity of the sector by
        613,500 dozen garments per year.
    · Employment generation and gender impact: 147 subprojects were supported by the
        CBSF, which have created direct employment of 14,218 employees, a major part of
        which included women. Although it is hard to estimate a precise number, through
        industrial links the subprojects have generated indirect employment for many others.
    · Additional profit generation: These subprojects generated additional profits of Tk
        3,842 million for the borrowing subprojects.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The technical assistance component of the project contributed importantly to institution
building both at Government agencies (BB, SEC, FAPAD, etc) and in the private sector.
According to market participants, the BB was significantly strengthened, and partial success
can also be accounted for in the case of the SEC and the PFIs. Specifically, knowledge
acquired from the GOB training program (BB, SEC, MOF and others) has contributed
considerably to furthering the regulators' understanding and awareness for the need of
reform.    PFI institutional capacity has been enhanced in important aspects of conducting
business, including governance and management practices, strategic vision, monitoring and
reporting, technical facets of debt issuance, ALM capabilities, and environmental and audit
matters. The CBSF market development program involving financial intermediaries, and
various stakeholders (such as journalists) has developed institutional awareness and
investment interest in debt and securitization issues.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts


Inefficiencies and delays in obtaining DOE clearances (see section 7.1) caused PFIs to
redirect their financing mostly to projects in green and orange categories, including the
services sector.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable.




9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The following risks to the development outcome ­ to promote NBFI progress, improvements
in intermediation quality, and industrial growth­­could be considered relevant going
forward.

Risks Specific to the Operation and Sustainability
Sustainability of the project beyond implementation depends on four factors:


                                               25

· Capacity of NBFIs for term lending and fund-raising. This risk is negligible in view of
   the considerable capacity for resource mobilization developed under the project. Several
   NBFIs have improved their skills in project evaluation, as well as gained experience with
   term lending and asset securitization; this experience is likely to be transferred
   throughout the financial system via learning by example.
·   Capacity of regulators on term lending. The advances achieved in GOB/BB/SEC
   awareness and understanding of debt securities issues are sustainable and unlikely to be
   reversed in the medium term, and even in the long term, provided that the current low
   rates of civil servant staff turnover are maintained. Capacity in both private sector and
   government agencies has developed tremendously over the life of this project. It is
   difficult to imagine that there could ever be a turning back to the ways of 1998, when
   government bonds physically could not be traded. Bangladesh has taken some giant steps
   in the development of its term finance markets and FIDP has been central to those
   achievements.
· Supply of funds by institutional investors. Achievements in augmenting the supply of
   funds by institutional investors run a negligible risk of being reversed, once awareness
   has been raised and institutional investors have been familiarized with the new debt
   instruments. Current efforts of NBFIs (outside of the project) are focused on developing
   a clientele among the potential individual investors as well. Note the related risk of
   changing market factors (for example, interest rates) discussed below. Once could add
   the caveat, however, that there has been no material change in terms of the mobilization
   of retail savings through contractual savings institutions in Bangladesh, which represents
   a considerable risk. Though capacity might be argued to be in place, the mechanism for
   bringing finance to market is largely lacking.
· Demand for term funds by high-quality projects. This risk is negligible due to the
   relatively low scale of term financing currently available in the country, which is
   disproportionately small relative to existing private sector term financing needs. The risk
   likelihood would rise in the long run as the supply of long-term financing increases, but
   international experience shows that the impact is low because of the improvements in
   sophistication of project assessment and other innovations in the industry that render it
   profitable to serve even higher-risk projects.

Risks from Factors Outside of the Operation
The following four factors present risks outside of the operation:
   · Changing market conditions. Market conditions present a significant risk (decreasing
       to moderate in the medium term and negligible in the long term) of temporarily
       dissuading NBFIs to raise fund capital through debt security issuance. Specifically,
       high interest rates make debt securities costly for NBFIs to issue and their returns
       appear unattractive to investors when compared with the returns of other lower-risk
       instruments. Despite the significant likelihood of temporary abatement in debt
       securities issue activity because of changing interest rates, the impact is moderate to
       low (especially in the medium term) because of the adaptability of NBFIs, the
       flexibility of the financial instruments involved, and the increasing confidence of
       NBFIs with debt and ABSs. The impact will, of course, depend on the severity and
       nature of the interest rate change; however, the low risk of a financial crisis is



                                              26

       mitigated by the IMF's continued involvement and monitoring.
   · Development of market sources of funding for term lending. The advances achieved
       in Treasury markets are sustainable and unlikely to be reversed. Prospective change
       at NSS should be far from taken for granted, in as much as this process has not been
       currently initiated. The risk is mitigated by follow-up WB work on NSS, which
       serves to maintain the momentum of the advances achieved thus far. The risk of
       reversal in SEC reforms revamping issuance rules, lowering issuance costs, and
       modifying other related regulations is negligible, and further improvements will be
       pushed via future WB work. A risk is presented from the side of NBR and tax issues­
       ­changes and revisions in taxation and stamp duties are a continuing source of
       uncertainty and should be adequately addressed in future WB work (see section 7.5).
       More objectively, the tax holiday provided to zero coupon bonds should be regarded
       as an anomaly that is not seen in other successful markets. Tax issues are within
       government control, and would be predicated on GOB's broader commitment to
       financial market development, which seems to be in place. Further, the fiscal cost of
       bringing about the liberalization of the tax system required to facilitate market
       development would be very modest and the obstacles are primarily administrative.
   · Credit rating may take too long to start being effectively used. The two established
       credit rating agencies still lack the experience of international-level credit rating.
       Furthermore, investors have not developed an appreciation of the relationship
       between risk and return, instead using the reputation of the issuer as a proxy for risk
       and disregarding the risk characteristics of the instrument itself. International
       competition from multinationals like Moody's and Fitch would help the development
       of this market to reach world-class levels. Additionally, increasing the use of ABS
       and simple debt securities would promote investor education on the risk
       characteristics of each instrument. That being said, international experience shows
       that markets can develop without credit rating agencies, which have been a
       phenomenon in developed markets for only the last century and outside North
       America for only two or three decades, well after the establishment of vibrant debt
       markets.
   · Potential risk of contagion of NBFIs. Going forward, this risk is assessed as
       negligible, in view of the performance of subprojects under the FIDP. Among PFIs,
       there was not a single default, and although some subprojects experienced payment
       delays, there were no defaults. As noted above, the market is starved of long-term
       funds, permitting to hand select a steady stream of high-quality projects to finance.
       By the nature of the project, it is designed so that funds flow from NCBs to NBFIs
       (because NCBs are investing in NBFI-issued debt securities), which also limits
       contagion risk.

Taking into account the above, it is possible that some of the aspects of the PDO may
not be sustained (for example, because of tax considerations), consequently rating the
overall risk to Development Outcome as moderate.




                                             27

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The project is highly relevant and responds closely to the needs of the country at this level of
development. The approach, as noted in section 7, was complex and ambitious and has
achieved its goals. The FIDP technical, financial, and economic aspects were characterized
by an innovative strategy, and specifically targeted the young, dynamic NBFI sector, which
carried a likelier promise for developing term financing markets than the ailing Bangladesh
NCB sector. The project came at an opportune time, when access to finance was becoming
a palpable barrier for maintaining and raising existing private sector growth rates in
Bangladesh. The project was structured to link the development of the NBFI sector and
intermediation improvements to financing of the real sector, job creation, and growth. In
particular, the newly generated long-term financing has resulted in many new jobs,
particularly for women, in the garment industry and related sectors. The environmental
aspects of the project were addressed by providing DOE clearance for all subprojects that
were financed, although the inefficiencies associated with this government agency were not
taken into account and mitigated at project entry (a parallel WB project was addressing the
issue).

Procurement, financial management, and reporting arrangements of the project were
adequate. The policy and institutional aspects of the project suffered somewhat from weak
government commitment in certain areas, such as tax and stamp duty regulations, in spite of
clearly declared government intentions to the contrary that mitigated government
commitment risk. Implementation arrangements were satisfactory, although the need for
training of the selected project auditor (FAPAD) could have been foreseen. The project
benefited from a good system of M&E. In view of the significant development of M&E in
the WBG in the past five years, hindsight suggests perhaps a more detailed approach to
subcomponent output measurement. The project underwent a detailed risk assessment (see
section 9). Bank inputs and processes were satisfactory. In view of the above considerations,
the Bank-provided services have ensured that the quality at entry of the operation was
satisfactorily.

The QAG at entry rating was moderately unsatisfactory. The report notes the sound financial
sector work that served as the background preparation for the project, the high quality of
selected participating FIs, and the adequate expected demand from borrowing enterprises and
from the FIs on the credit line facility. The report acknowledges the significance of some
policy changes already achieved under the project, particularly reducing the stamp duty on
fixed-income securities registration; constraining NCB lending; and allowing insurance,
companies, pension funds, and NCBs to invest in securities.

While the QAG agrees on the need to develop NBFI term debt security markets, it expresses
serious doubts about the need for the complexity of asset-backed securitization as opposed to
simple fixed-income securities. Undoubtedly the project suitably addressed the issue of term


                                              28

finance, at the appropriate time for Bangladesh, yet, one could express some sympathy for
the QAG arguments. The FIDP technical assistance has been invaluable in enabling both
Government and private sector to raise standards and has supported a trend that was nascent
at the time of appraisal. Equally, however, the structure of the project was undoubtedly
excessively complex and perhaps expensive. The PIU embodied in the CBSF goes against
modern views in terms of mainstreaming and the fact that it has been discontinued is a
reflection of its lack of utility. The complex secondary market mechanisms envisaged in
FIDP have not evolved at all. The challenges in running the CBSF were significant and it
never really reached the standards which were necessary for it to be effective.

This being said, securitization is turning out to be the right product for Bangladesh. Quite
separate to the "supply" of this project, private sector entities are actively promoting
securitization in Bangladesh (most notably of microfinance receivables). Without the ground
breaking work of FIDP, this advance would probably not have taken place. The technical
expertise is present in Bangladesh (much having returned from overseas markets) and if the
QAG team felt that securitization was "too complex" for Bangladesh, they have been proven
wrong.

While designing the project, an issue arose regarding NBFI supervision and prudential
regulation reforms, which could be placed under this project or alternatively under the CBSP
described above. The QAG disagreed with the strategic choice made at project design to
place supervision issues under CBSP, while focusing the FIDP on developing the term debt
finance framework. Yet, QAG noted that it "found a lot of merit in the underlying country
strategy in Bangladesh which argues for simple projects with clear objectives within a
coherent long-term framework." The same CAS goal is also cited in the PAD as motivating
the placement of NBFI supervision under CBSP, "to allow a sharper focus for the proposed
FIDP while assigning two important related activities to those projects under which they
constitute the main focus of their operation."


(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Project implementation has benefited from the following aspects of supervision quality:
    · Implementation has been carried out with a focus on maximizing the project's
        development impact. In particular, project supervision has resulted in continual
        readjustment and emphasis on institutional and regulatory training and awareness
        raising; capacity creation in the non-banking financial sector; and TA on regulatory
        and institutional improvements to facilitate the functioning of financial markets. The
        midterm review budget reallocation tried to make the most of the prevailing
        institutional and regulatory framework and to achieve the highest possible
        mobilization of term finance.
    · Procurement, fiduciary, reporting, and financial management were closely supervised.
        Delays in procurement of consultants were promptly addressed and repeatedly
        attended to, as needed, until the problems were resolved. In response to the issues
        with FAPAD, a series of tripartite meetings were organized, creating a forum in


                                              29

        which the issues could be resolved.
    · Supervision inputs and processes have been adequate. Swift resolution of issues and
        problems is again the main theme evident to an outside observer. For example, a cul-
        de-sac reached in GOB's commitment to further reform in 2002 was resolved by
        calling for (1) a retreat of the main GOB parties involved, and the Bank, and (2)
        brainstorming and creating solidarity until the issues were resolved. As another
        example, DOE inefficiencies were repeatedly targeted through a variety of
        approaches in an attempt to eliminate or speed up DOE functioning, including an
        approach to the DOE's reporting ministry (the Ministry of Environment and Forests).
        Finally, numerous consultations were held with PFIs on upgrading the MIS and other
        systems to achieve a consensus on the best approach to monitoring systems for the
        industry.
    · Regular ISRs have been produced, which are candid and detailed, well targeted to
        outline important events, and well argued. More tables and a sense of a big picture
        would have improved the presentation (template permitting); however, presentation
        issues aside, the ISRs contain exhaustive information relevant to the project and
        permit the formulation of a clear and complete picture of the advance of the FIDP's
        work.
    · The project implementation team had a paramount role in ensuring the adequate
        transition arrangements for the FIDP. Upon the GOB's expression of lack of support
        for privatizing the CBSF, the team moved to ensure a smooth transition of the CBSF
        from the international consultant to the BB's management. Necessary arrangements
        were made for transferring facility management skills to qualified local professionals
        and local consultants as well as to the BB's secondees.

Based on the above considerations, the Bank-provided services have supported satisfactorily
the effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including adequate transition
arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after project closing).


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Combining the two ratings for quality at entry and quality of supervision, overall Bank
performance is rated as satisfactory.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Government performance in the project is rated moderately satisfactory due to incomplete
(though fully adequate) ownership of the project by the GOB (see detailed reasons outlined
below). An alternative standpoint could be taken that the project design might have placed
taxing demands upon GOB. Equally, there is room for higher achievement in terms of the
leadership and capacity at the SEC and improvements at NSS.
    · Government ownership and commitment was a particular issue in some aspects of the
        project, such as the reform of stamp duties by NBR and the adoption of integrated,


                                               30

        high-quality public issuance regulations by the SEC.
    · The GOB maintained an enabling environment, including supportive macro- and
        sectoral policies. Several institutions were created and strengthened, which
        contributed to the achievements of the project, such as the CDB electronic registry,
        the BB functions of auctioning Treasury securities, and successful SEC reforms on
        ABS, private issuance, and reduced issuance costs.
    · Consultations with government agencies related to the project were not adequate.
        Securing the involvement of some government agencies such as FAPAD, DOE, DNS,
        and NBR was difficult.
    · GOB preparation for implementation was adequate. A steering committee was
        appointed on time.
    · GOB was deficient in contributing to the timely resolution of implementation issues
        (for example, in the case of procurement delays, FAPAD, DOE, and the SEC reform
        of the Public Issue Rules).
    · Fiduciary arrangements were adequate. Inefficiency issues were experienced and
        addressed with the DOE. Provision of counterpart funding was implemented as
        agreed. GOB complied with the DCA as negotiated.
    · GOB's coordination with donors, partners, and stakeholders fell short of achieving
        satisfactory results, although attempts were not lacking. This is the case, for example,
        with the Bank requests for coordination with NBR and FAPAD.
The borrower ensured quality of preparation and implementation moderately satisfactorily.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency          Performance

                Bangladesh Bank has been key to the success that this project has enjoyed.
                Starting with limited capacity and an extremely antiquated system, the
                Bangladesh Bank has come a long way, managing the complex administrative
                arrangements of the CBSF. The energy applied to development of securities
                markets by the Governor and his advisor has been extremely important.
                Agency performance in the project is rated satisfactory for the following
                reasons:

                 The BB displayed adequate commitment to developing the long-term lending
Bangladesh
Bank            capacity of the NBFI sector.

                    · Beneficiary and stakeholder consultations were adequate. NBFIs and
                        investors demonstrated activism and interest in the project.
                    · The BB was adequately prepared for implementation, ensured
                        implementation arrangements and capacity, and cooperated on
                        appointments of key staff. It further seconded staff to the CBSF for
                        training and learning, and smoothly took over the CBSF at the end of
                        the FA's term in office.
                    · Implementation issues were resolved by the BB in a relatively timely



                                               31

                         fashion, with minor exceptions (for example, procurement of the NSS
                         consultant).
                     · Fiduciary issues management by the BB was adequate
                     · M&E was adequate in the context of contemporary projects, but note
                         the double-supervision work of the CBSF adviser and the BB
                         discussed in section 7. M&E data were utilized successfully in
                         decision making and resource allocation (for example, the budget
                         reallocation at the midterm review).
                     · The BB coordination with SEC was insufficient (for example, in terms
                         of training and in discussions of issue rules).
                     · Transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities
                         under the FIDP were adequate. The transfer of the CBSF to the BB in
                         February 2005 was smooth and successful.

                  The implementing agency ensured quality of preparation and implementation
                satisfactorily.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Combining the two ratings for government and implementing agency performance, overall
borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.




11. Lessons Learned

Following are the lessons learned from the Bangladesh FIDP

1.   A concern identified during mid-term review was that SEC training was undertaken on
    an ad-hoc basis without a proper needs assessment. By that time, BB had used the
    training sub-component relatively sparingly, and in particular there was weak exposure to
    training of the staff and officials in the Financial Institutions Department. BB and SEC
    training activities had not benefited from coordination of arrangements. In response,
    SEC and BB both carried out a training needs assessment to develop a training program,
    which was followed for the latter part of the project. A training needs assessment at
    project design or early in the implementation stage permits efficient structuring of
    training events, fully utilizing training funds, organizational synergies, advance
    coordination among all government agencies to benefit from the training, and
    maximizing efficiency while lowering costs.

2.   For projects with innovative components, a separate communications program
    outlined and budgeted at project design phase can improve project understanding and
    buy-in. In this particular case, the communications program could have provided from
    project inception (and did since mid-term review) ongoing investor education and



                                                32

    awareness-raising in view of the heavy innovation content of the project, as well as the
    highly technical mechanisms involved, with which the investor and financial community
    needed more detailed familiarization.

3. Reforms planned during the project implementation phase can benefit from a careful
    assessment of their champions and opponents. Reforms should only be pushed by the
    project if at least one champion has resolved all their issues with the reform and is ready
    to unconditionally back it up. In the case of this project, both BB and SEC has small
    unresolved issues with the draft SEC Fixed-Income Securities Issue Rules, so that
    tensions between the two champions left the draft legislature as the victim of the
    disagreement, unsupported by any government agency. Reforms can increase their
    chances of being implemented if they deal with a narrow set of issues, involving a
    minimal number of government agencies (possibly a single agency).

4.   The project goals were noted to be highly complex. In spite of the good reasons that
    backed up this decision, project complexity raises risks of delivery failure. The project
    addressed several reforms simultaneously (Treasury paper market, NSS, and private debt
    instruments) and involved several agencies (SEC, DNS, BB, and NBR). These factors
    made it difficult to successfully manage all components, while maintaining government
    commitment and project momentum. In projects involving complex and innovative
    components, project phasing helps streamline goals and account for progress and
    existing commitment before moving to a subsequent step. For example, the FIDP could
    have benefited from the following phases: (1) preparing the market and regulatory
    environment (NSS and NBR reforms); (2) preparing the legal environment (SEC
    reforms); and (3) launching the CBSF funding facilities.

5.    By Bangladesh laws, project director liability (for projects overseen by government
    entities) constrains innovative decisions and deviations from established business
    practice. In these cases, any auditor's failure in understanding the entity's actions results
    in audit comments that increase the personal liability of the government official involved.
    Unfortunately, undertraining and turnover at the supreme audit body (FAPAD) makes for
    frequent and multiple deficiencies in understanding. As a result, IDA projects might
    incur excess cost, or delays, as well as other barriers to implementation. For example, the
    FIDP experienced a double level of control without added benefits, in which BB staff
    duplicated the functions of the CBSF adviser (an international professional who was
    specifically hired to perform these tasks), wasting money and time.6 There is no liability
    insurance and no business judgment rule that would allow reasonable risk-taking in good
    faith to go unpunished. The assurance of a reasonable amount of liability that still
    would provide proper fiduciary duty without paralyzing the project director's actions
    because of excessive strictness would facilitate the undertaking of business risks in
    good faith and allow for efficient project management, implementation, creativity, and
    functioning.
________________________
6 There is an argument that the BB's double effort might have promoted BB staff learning. Excessive liability
might also be considered less of a dead-weight loss in the Bangladesh environment of poor governance than in
other countries.




                                                     33

6.   The project failed to foresee the training needs of FAPAD, the supreme audit body.
    Careful review of all potentially important actors involved in a project, and all their
    expected impacts and needs, would increase the chances of successful and smooth
    project implementation.




12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

    · As the implementing agency BB had the responsibility to supervise and oversee
       CBSF activities. To reduce risk BB reached all funding applications before
       disbursement. However this did not hamper smooth disbursement of CBSF funding.

    · IDA may take necessary initiative with the coordination of GOB for the new avenues
       as identified in section 7.5(next phase: follow up operations).

    · For better understanding and smooth implementation, communication program may
       be initiated at the early stage of project implementation where regulators,
       beneficiaries, stakeholders, donors and FAPAD may participate.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

    · The SEC feels that training events would have benefited from more details and depth
       and perhaps would have been more productive if they had been conducted over a
       longer duration.

    · FIs felt that the FIDP helped bridge the asset liability maturity gap and provided
       competitive funding. Building a clientele for fixed-income securities is the next step
       for PFIs, both by raising awareness with institutional investors and developing a
       clientele of individuals along private wealth management lines. Mixed feelings were
       expressed about ABS, mainly because the market failed to price the lower risk
       embodied in the ABS and discount it appropriately in view of its risk characteristics.
       After the end of the project, NBFIs still face the problem of obtaining long-term
       funding.




                                              34

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

Project Development Objective (PDO)
The FIDP objective was to promote the development of NBFIs, in particular, and investment
financing, in general, on a sustainable basis that would contribute to improvements in the
quality of intermediation and the speed and efficiency of industrial growth in Bangladesh.

The sector-related CAS goal for FIDP was to support the government's poverty reduction
strategy of promoting rapid, job-creating economic growth by fostering the development of
investment financing on a sustainable basis. Measures on the increase in investment
financing served as key performance indicators. The critical assumptions made were that the
political and investment climate in Bangladesh was improved or maintained and that the
GOB would display an adequate commitment to implement financial sector reforms and
avoid policies that distort financial markets.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) lists the key performance indicators as follows:

    · Increased term financing by eligible NBFIs and other FIs (defined as cumulative
       disbursements of credit subcomponents to eligible FIs as a share of available funds,
       with the following target levels: 30 percent by the first year; 70 percent by the second
       year, and 100 percent by the third year).

    · Increased share of market sources of funds for eligible NBFIs and other FIs (defined
       as the market funds raised by FIs via bonds, debentures, and Asset Backed Security
       [ABS], as a share of disbursed IDA funds, with the following target levels: 10 percent
       by the first year, 25 percent by the second year, 50 percent by the third year, and 100
       percent by the fourth year).


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not Applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                         Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                             approval           Revised       Completion or
                                            documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increased term financing by eligible NBFIs and other FIs.
Value          Increase in term
(quantitative  financing by FIs        Term financing by    Not            Term financing by

or             severely limited by lackFIs increased by at  Applicable.    FIs increased by at

Qualitative)   of fund mobilization    least US$45 million.                least US$45.6 million




                                               35

                sources.
Date achieved 01/31/2000                   02/28/2006             02/28/2006    02/28/2006
Comments
(incl. %        100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Increased share of market sources of funds for eligible NBFIs and other FIs.
Value           Negligible share of        PFIs raise an equal                  PFIs raise from the
(quantitative   market sources of funds amount from the           Not           market 94% of the
or              in the total funding       market as provided     Applicable.   amount provided
Qualitative)    structure of PFIs.         under CBSF.                          under CBSF.
Date achieved 01/31/2000                   02/28/2006             02/28/2006    02/28/2006
Comments
(incl. %        94%
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                        Original Target          Formally     Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator       Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised Target     at Completion or
                                      approval documents)         Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Cumulative disbursements of credit subcomponent to eligible FIs to reach 100
                 percent of credit allocation by the closing date.
Value                                Cumulative                               Cumulative
(quantitative or No disbursement. disbursements reach         Not applicable. disbursements reach
Qualitative)                         US$40 million.                           US$43.5 million.
Date achieved 01/31/2000             02/28/2006               02/28/2006      02/28/2006
Comments
(incl. %         100% (simple credit + 1:1 credit disbursements)
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Participating FIs increase market sources of funding by 100 percent of IDA funds
                 provided under CBSF.
Value                                Market sources of                        Market sources of
(quantitative or Market sources of   funding increased to     Not applicable. funding increased to
Qualitative)     funding is Nil.     US$40 million.                           US$38.4 million.
Date achieved 01/31/2000             02/28/2006               02/28/2006      02/28/2006
Comments
(incl. %         96%
achievement)




                                                   36

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                 Not Applicable




                                      37

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                        Appraisal
             Components               Estimate (USD       Actual/Latest    Percentage of

                                            M)         Estimate (USD M)      Appraisal

Development and implementation of
Issue Rules for Bonds / Debentures                0.35                0.34         97.14

SEC Training on Debt Instruments                  0.05                0.05        100.00

BB Training on Debt Instruments                  0.05                 0.00            .00
Reform of Government Savings
Schemes                                           0.67                0.15         22.06

Development of Procedures for
Secondary TB Market                              0.40                 0.00            .00

Development of CBSF                              1.30                 0.50         38.46

Management of CBSF                               2.50                 2.85        114.00

Funding of CBSF                                 49.00                47.58         97.10
Capacity Enhancement of PFI Business
Planning                                         2.30                 0.08          3.48

Resource Mobilization for PFIs                   0.43                 0.13         30.23

Revision of CBSF Mechanism                       0.64                 0.00            .00
Total Baseline Cost                              57.69                51.68           89.6
Physical Contingencies                           0.00                 0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                              0.00                 0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs                              57.69                51.68           89.6
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                 0.00          0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                 0.00          0.00
Total Financing Required                         57.69                51.68           89.6



(b) Financing


  Source of        Type of      Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate  Percentage of
    Funds        Cofinancing        (USD M)              (USD M)            Appraisal
  Borrower                                    5.41                   5.19          95.93
  IDA                                       46.90                  46.48           99.10




                                             38

(c) Disbursement Profile




                            39

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Tables of Implemented Measures

Development and Implementation of Issue Rules for Bonds and Debentures:
2% registration fee for issuance of bonds and debentures was waived in 2000.
Stamp duty of 2.5% of total amount of issue reduced to Tk 2,500 on April 26, 2001.
SPV exempted from VAT, income tax, transfer duty, and capital gains tax.
SEC public issue /consent fee (for public and private issues) was reduced from a flat 0.1% to 0.1% for an issue less
than Tk 50 million (US$719,528) and 0.02% for higher amounts. In addition, the SEC consent fee for public issues
was reduced from Tk. 10,000 + 0.3% of the issue amount, to Tk. 10,000 + 0.15% of the total amount raised.
Prospectus publication (for public issues) needed to be published in two papers, in full, at the cost of Tk. 400,000
(US$5,756). Modified to allow summary publication, with a reference to the online location where the full
information is available (including SEC, stock exchange, and company websites).
Underwriting commission (for public issues) was effectively reduced in half.
Bankers' commission (Banker to the issue fee) ­ reduced from 0.25% to 0.1% (for public issues).
Broker's commission /Seal commission of 1% was abolished.
Issue management fee of 1% (for public issues) was capped at Tk. 2m (US$28,781).
SEC Issue of Capital Rules, 2001 were adopted.
Asset Backed Security Issue Rules, 2004 were adopted.
SEC Public Issue Rules, 2006 were adopted.
Detailed draft issue rules submitted to SEC.

SEC /BB / GOB /PFI training and capacity building on fixed income securities
 31 Jan ­ 4 Feb, 2000, Workshop on Non Bank Financial Institutions: Development and Regulations, World Bank,
    Washington. Participants: Mr. M.A. Sayeed, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission.
 29 Feb ­ 1 Mar, 2000, Workshop on FIDP Launching. Participants: Financial Institutions Representatives.
 31 Mar - 1 Apr, 2000, Conference on " Emerging Markets in the New Financial System: Managing Financial and
    Corporate Distress", World Bank, Washington. Participants: Mr. Suvro Kanti Chowdhury, Deputy Director,
    Securities and Exchange Commission.
 16-20 July, 2000, Training on "Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management", Bangladesh Arsenic
    Mitigation Water Supply Project (BAMWSP), BRAC , CDM Centre , Rajendrapur, Gazipur, Bangladesh.
    Participants: Mr. Md. Mofazzal Hossain, Deputy Director, Bangladesh Bank.
 1-11 May, 2001, Banking and Capital Markets familiarization Program on Senior Officials, Bank of England,
    UK, HSBC, UK, Federal Reserve Bank, USA, CITI Bank , New York, USA, Securities & Exchange
    Commission, USA, New York Stock Exchange, USA, IDA, USA. Participants: Mr. A H Toufiq Ahmed,
    Deputy Governor, Bangladesh Bank; Mr. Habib Abu Ibrahim, Joint Secretary, Finance Division; Mr. Ziaul
    Hassan Siddiqui, Executive Director, Bangladesh Bank.
 3-14 December, 2001, Financial Management and Disbursement Course, ILO Training Center, Turin, Italy.
    Participants: Mr. Sheikh Mozaffar Hossain, Deputy Director, Bangladesh Bank.
 Retreat for BB, CBSF & WB staff August 20-21 2002.
 11-15 March , 2002, Training On Debt Instruments, Securities & Futures Commission, Hong Kong. Participants:
    Mr. K. Iftikher Ahmed, Member , SEC, Mrs. Ruksana Chowdhury, Director, SEC, Mr. A K M Ziaul Hassan
    Khan, Deputy Director, SEC, Mr.Md. Nasir Uddin Ahmed, Senior Assistant Secretary, Finance Division,
    Ministry of Finance.
 27 May-4 Jun 2002, Study Tour on " Debt Market" and "Asset Securitization", Reserve Bank of New Zealand,
    National Bank of New Zealand, New Zealand Securities Commission, New Zealand Stock Exchange, Reserve
    Bank of Australia, Bay Corp. Advantage, Australia, Standard and Poor , Australia, Australian Securities and
    Investment Commission, Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority. Participants: Mr. Ziaul Hassan Siddiqui,
    Executive Director, Bangladesh Ban, Mr. Abdul Hannan Zoarder, Executive Director, Securities and
    Exchange Commission, Mr Saifuddin Ahmed, Deputy Secretary, Finance Division , MoF, Mr. Mofiz Uddin
    Chowdhury, General Manager, Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Md. Mofazzal Hossain, Deputy Director, Bangladesh
    Bank, Ms. Rubayet Jesmin, Asstt. Director, Bangladesh Bank.


                                                     40

 3 Sep, 2002, How Can NBFIs Play Greater Role In a Bank Based Economy, Bangkok, Thailand, Mr. Munir
    Uddin Ahmed, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission.
 3-8 Feb, 2003, International Management Development Programme on Financial Management of the World Bank
    Funded Project, National Institute of Financial Management, Hariana, India. Participants: Mr.Md. Nasir Uddin
    Ahmed, Senior Assistant Secretary, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance, Mr. A K M abu Raihan, Senior
    Asstt. Chief, Planning Commission, Mr. Abdul Wahab, Asstt. Director, Bangladesh Bank.
 5-6 Mar, 2003, Communication Program. Participants: High Officials of Bangladesh Bank.
 12 May, 2003, Workshop on Environmental Compliance. Participants: Representative from participating
    financial institutions (PFIs), Bangladesh Bank, and Directorate of Environment Officials.
 8-20 Feb, 2005, Australia Study Tour, Reserve Bank of New Zealand, New Zealand Securities Commission,
    NewZealand Securities Commission, NewZealand Stock Exchange, Reserve Bank of Australia, Australian
    Securities and Investment Commission, Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority, ABN Amro, Sydney ,
    Australia. Participants: Mr. Sudhir Chandra Das, Deputy General Manager, Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Chowdhury
    Md. Firoz Bin Alam, Joint Director, Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Abdul Wahab, Asstt. Director, Bangladesh Bank,
    Mr. Md. Alamgir, Asstt. Director, Bangladesh Bank, Ms. Khaleda Akhter, Joint Chief, Planning Commission,
    Mr. Arijit Chowdhury, Senior Assistant Secretary, Finance Division, MOF, Mr. Saiful Islam, Asstt. Chief ,
    ERD, Mr. Hassan Mahmood, Deputy Director, SEC.
 17 Jun ­ 2 Jul 2005, Development and Implementation of Issue Rules and Regulations to foster Secondary
    Market Development, Securities and Exchange Commission , Sri Lanka, Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Reserve
    Bank of India, Mumbai, Fixed Income Money Market Dealers Association of India, Mumbai, India, Clearing
    Corporation India, Mumbai, National Stock Exchange, India, Mumbai Stock Exchange, Securities and
    Exchange Board of India , Mumbai, Rating Agency of Malaysia, Kualalampur, Bnak Negara , Malyasia,
    Securities and Exchange Commission , Kualampur. Participants: Mr. Abdul Hannan Zoarder, Executive
    Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, Ms. Fahima Yasmin, Senior Assistant Secretary, Finance
    Division, MOF, Mr Safiul Azam, Deputy Director, SEC, Ms. Kakoli Zahan Ahmed, Deputy Director,
    Bangladesh Bank, Ms. Husne Ara Shikha, Deputy Director, Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Rathin Kumar Paul,
    Assistant Director, Bangladesh Bank, Ms. Farhana Faroki, Assitt. Director, SEC.
 12-20 Dec, 2005, Market, prudential guidelines and supervision of financial institutions, Central Bank,
    Philippines, Stock Exchange, Manila, Securities and Exchange Commission, Manila, CITI Bank NA , Manila,
    Stock Exchange, Jakarta, Securities and Exchange Commission, Indonesia, Citibank, Indonesia. Participants:
    Mr. Murshid Kuli khan, Executive Director, Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Abdus Samad, General Manager,
    Bangladesh Bank, Mr. Masum Patwary, Joint Director, Bangladesh Bank.

Reform of National Savings Schemes
Reports on NSS reform (situation report, IT assessment report, MIS automation plan, Financial market report) filed
with MoF, currently under GOB consideration.
10% withholding tax on interest income over Tk. 25K per year on National Savings Certificates was imposed.
The DNS withdrew the high interest bearing Paribar Sanchaypatra (5 years).
The DNS withdrew the high interest bearing Pratirakha sanchay patra.
The DNS withdrew the high interest bearing 6 monthly profit bearing sanchay patra (5 years).
The number of categories of Sanchay Patras has been decreased to 2.
The interest rates on NSS on 5-year Sanchay Patra were reduced in 2002-4 (but raised again thereafter).
The interest rates on NSS on 3-year Sanchay Patra were reduced in 2002-4 (but raised again thereafter).
Financial institutions were made ineligible to hold NSS instruments.

Development of Procedures for Secondary Treasury Bond (TB) Market
 BB operationalized the repo system for 28-day T-bills in 2002, the first repo transaction in Bangladesh was
 carried out in Jan 2003.
 Reverse Repo systems have been introduced in 2003.
 BB issued for the first time 5- and 10- year T-Bonds in Dec 2003.

Development and Management of the Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility (CBSF)
FIDP communications activities and PFI and market development programs.



                                                     41

CBSF internal control, management, and IT systems were set up.
Integrated development of BB staff seconded to CBSF.
Exposure of PFIs to international best practice in Credit Management and ALM.
Discussions with journalists to raise awareness on capital markets and international best practice.
Continuous advice and reporting to BB on CBSF and FIDP development.
Annual PFI eligibility reviews were conducted on 31/12/2000, 31/12/2001, 31/12/2002, 31/12/2003, 31/12/2004,
plus continuous quarterly monitoring of PFI edibility.
A repo transaction was undertaken with Janata Bank in early 2003 and the first reverse repo transaction was
completed with Dutch Bangla Bank in Mar 2004, followed by a reverse repo with Eastern Bank in Dec 2004.

Funding the Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility (CBSF)
Simple credit of Tk. 957 million (US$16.2m) was used by all 6 PFIs, for 53 leases, and 8 loans.
Total 1:1 credit disbursed to 6 PFIs was Tk. 1,570 million (US$27.1 million), used for 61 leases, and 11 loans.
Bridge finance disbursed: 2 PFIs, for a total amount of Tk. 119,121,189 (US$2.1 million), used for 12 leases.
Stand-by finance ­ not used.
Liquidity mechanism: not used.
The total credit disbursed under the project amounted to US$43.3 million.
The total financing disbursed under the project amounted to US$45.4 million.
A total of US$38 million was raised by the 6 PFIs in debenture, bond, and asset-backed securities financing.
Total funds raised through securitization by 3 PFIs was Tk. 948.58 (US$15 million).

Capacity Enhancement of FIs Business Planning, Resource Management and MIS
TA on governance and management practices; treasury operations; credit evaluation techniques; and asset liability
management capabilities, lending and debt issue documentation, environment, audit, business planning.
CBSF prepared a report on MIS with an assessment of software solutions in Feb 2005.

List of Training Events undertaken by PFIs:
Feb 29-Mar 1, 2000, Workshop on FIDP Launching. Participants: Financial Institutions Representatives.
Video-conference on Issuance of Debt Instruments in Bangladesh, Washington, DC, August 7, 2001.
25-27 Sep, 2001, Workshop on Securitization. Participants: Financial Institutions Representatives.
26-28 Aug, 2002, Investor Mini Forum. Participants: Prospective investors comprising representatives from insurance
    companies, commercial banks, corporate bodies with liquid funds and other micro finance institutions.
12 May, 2003, Workshop on Environmental Compliance. Participants: Representative from participating financial
    institutions (PFIs), Bangladesh Bank, and Directorate of Environment Officials.
9 Jul, 2003, Workshop to inform about debt instruments issued by PFIs. Participants: NCB Representatives.
12,14 and 16 Aug, 2004, Workshop on Securitization. Participants: Representative from PFIs.
1-2 Dec, 2004, Workshop on Development of Band Market in Bangladesh. Participants: Prospective investors
    comprising representatives from insurance companies, commercial banks, corporate bodies with liquid funds and
    other micro finance institutions with resource persons from home and abroad.
29-30 Aug, 2005, International Workshop on Infrastructure in Bangladesh. Participants: Prospective investors
    comprising representatives from different corporate bodies concern for infrastructure, insurance companies,
    commercial banks with resource persons from home and abroad.

PFI resource mobilization
Securitization reports: monthly, inception, and final reports, overviewing the key elements of securitization, their
implementation in the conditions of Bangladesh, SPV structure, underlying assets, credit risks, regulation of
securitization in Bangladesh, accounting treatment, documentation of transactions, rating of issues, educational
support, and detailed recommendations / roadmap for implementation of securitization in the country.
AIMS report on asset securitization by Financial Institutions in Bangladesh of Sep 2002.
Heightened awareness of the importance of the public and private debt markets amongst key government agencies,
such as, SEC, MOF, and IRD/NBR; improved institutional investor awareness of and participation in the NBFI
sector; support to PFIs with investor marketing, issue structuring and documentation in the context of securitization



                                                      42

Revision of CBSF Mechanism
CBSF Action/Implementation Plan, including transfer issues.
CBSG successfully transferred to BB on Feb 13, 2005.




                                                  43

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis


The overall economic benefit of the project was its support of the expansion of the sound and more
efficient part of the financial sector, providing alternative opportunities for savers and an increased
supply of term funds for competitive projects. Since the project was designed to have a catalytic
role in supporting NBFIs' efforts to raise term funds for investment lending it is difficult to quantify
its long term impact. This long term impact would consist in the additional benefits to the economy
arising from the more efficient use of savings to finance investment projects (increase in consumer's
and producer's surplus) during and beyond the project's life when NBFIs continue to raise funds
without the project's support.

However, an attempt has been made to quantify the short term impact during the project's life based
on the stream of long term financing generated in the NBFI system during the project, directly by
IDA funding as well as indirectly through PFI's own securities issuance. This yields a positive NPV
($0.9 million) and an IRR of 6% on IDA credit, and an indirect contribution to the tune of an NPV
of $4.44 million and an IRR of 30%. The economic benefit from the overall project over its life-
cycle was calculated at an NPV of $5.34 million and a modified IRR of 9%. These figures do not
take into account the additional employment and profits generated by the enterprise recipients of the
long-term funding. The long term effects are expected to be much higher.

                                  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Direct IDA contribution
  Increase in available term financing directly funded by IDA                   Present Value @ 10%
  Simple Credit facility to PFIs                                                                $15.52
  1:1 Credit to PFIs                                                                            $17.72
  Bridge Financing to PFIs                                                                       $1.81
                                             Total Discounted Direct Benefits                   $35.05
  Direct Costs financed by IDA:
  IDA Project Expenses (Disbursed)                                                              $33.48
  2% cost of funds on Project Disbursements from IDA                                             $0.67
                                                 Total Discounted Cost for IDA                  $34.15
  Net Financial Cost/Benefit (Present value)                                                     $0.90
  Internal Rate of Return - Financial analysis (direct benefit)                                    6%


Indirect contribution of the project
  Increase in available term financing indirectly created by the project
  Bonds, Debentures and ABS Issued by PFIs                                                      $26.72
                                            Total Discounted Indirect Benefits                  $26.72
  Indirect costs financed by other counterparts :
  GOB Discounted Disbursements                                                                   $4.97
  PFI Discounted Disbursements                                                                   $0.01
  Service payment to Bond, Debenture and ABS                                                    $12.97
  Service payment to credit (simple, 1:1 and Bridge)                                             $4.34
                                                Total Discounted Indirect Cost                  $22.28
  Net Additional Cost / Benefit (Present value)                                                  $4.44
  Internal Rate of Return - Additional benefit                                                    30%




                                                 44

 Overall contribution of the project
  Net Economic Cost / Benefit (Present value)                                                  $5.34
  Internal Rate of Return ­ overall project7                                                    9%

Main Assumptions:

    1. The NPV calculation is based on the actual project life cycle of 6 years (01/27/2000 to
        02/28/2006), with no scrap value at the end of the project;
    2. The cost of funds was assumed to stand close to the 5-year interest on bonds, and all flows
        were discounted at 10%;
    3. Actual disbursements under the IDA credit were taken into account to estimate NPV and
        IRR;
    4. Actual cost of credit figures and term financing raised was used in calculations.

Effectively, FIDP injected into the Bangladesh economy scarce long-term funds for investment and
private sector growth, which generated 14,218 additional employment, a major part of which were
women. Immediate beneficiaries were 147 sub projects that made additional profits of US$55
million during the project period. Also CBSF's contribution to the development of financial market,
the capacity building and increased profitability of PFIs, advances in the regulatory framework for
bond issuance, intensive regulator and other stakeholder training, and other spill over effects of
these activities on the economy has been difficult to quantify and has therefore not formed part of
the analysis.




___________________________

7 Modified IRR used, the simple IRR does not exist for this cash flow pattern.




                                                     45

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


         Names                    Title                   Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending

Shamsuddin Ahmad        Sr. Financial Sector
                        Specialist                SASFP               Team Leader

Imran Farid Darvesh     Finance Assistant         LOAG2               Finance Assistant
Antonio S. Davila-
Bonazzi                 Portfolio Officer         ACTCF               Loan Accounting Officer

Eilen J. Diamante       Finance Assistant         LOAG2               Finance Assistant
M. Aminul Haque         Consultant                SARPS               Procurement Specialist
Radha Raju              Finance Analyst           LOAG2               Finance Analyst
Chau-Ching Shen         Senior Finance Officer    LOAG2               Finance Officer

Suraiya Zannath         Sr. Financial                                 Financial Management
                        Management Specialist     SARFM               Specialist
Supervision/ICR

Shamsuddin Ahmad        Sr. Financial Sector
                        Spec.                     SASFP               Team Leader

Christopher Juan        Lead Financial Sector                         Financial Sector
Costain                 Specialist                AFTPS               Specialist

Alfredo J. Dammert      Sr. Private Sector
                        Development               SASFP               PSD Specialist

M. Aminul Haque         Consultant                SARPS               Procurement Specialist
Ziaun Nahar Joya        Program Assistant         SACBD               Program Assistant

Varsha Marathe          Financial Specialist      SASFP               Financial Sector
                                                                      Specialist
Tatiana Nenova          Senior Economist          SASFP               Senior Economist

Shah Nur Quayyum        Junior Professional
                        Associate                 SASFP               J. P. A

Bridget Rosalind
Rosario                 Program Assistant         SACBD               Program Assistant

Sadruddin Muhammad
Salman                  E T Consultant            SASFP               Research Analyst


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived             DO              IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   04/10/2000                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                              5.82
2   09/22/2000                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                              9.46
3   02/27/2001                Satisfactory    Satisfactory                              9.46


                                              46

4    09/05/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              17.24
5    03/04/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              22.76
6    09/08/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              28.13
7    03/06/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              31.31
8    09/06/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              34.21
9    03/31/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              35.83
10 09/30/2004                Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              38.77
11 05/16/2005                Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              42.18
12 11/17/2005                Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              46.49


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands
                                                  No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                         consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY96                                                                4.47
                    FY97                                                                1.98
                    FY98                                                              90.93
                    FY99                                                             161.13
                    FY00                                           15                 25.33
                    FY01                                                                0.00
                    FY02                                                                0.00
                    FY03                                                                0.00
                    FY04                                                                0.00
                    FY05                                                                0.00
                    FY06                                                                0.00
                    FY07                                                                0.00
                                         Total:                    15                283.84
Supervision/ICR
                    FY96                                                             313.61
                    FY97                                                             315.77
                    FY98                                                                0.00
                    FY99                                                                0.00
                    FY00                                           21                   0.72
                    FY01                                           26                 75.37
                    FY02                                           20                 61.42
                    FY03                                           13                 69.14
                    FY04                                           24                 28.84



                                             47

FY05               15     46.03
FY06               10     15.46
FY07                       9.27
        Total:    129    935.63




            48

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

         Bank                   Ratings         Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Moderately Satisfactory


Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Moderately Satisfactory




                                         49

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                        50

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

Not Applicable.




                                     51

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Bangladesh Bank :

        1.1 Background of FIDP :

        The financial sector of Bangladesh is characterized by strong presence of commercial
banks, especially the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs). Most of the available funds
go to these NCBs in the form of deposits and channeled for investment through lending.
However, the NCBs had a substantial bad loan portfolio. The dominance of banks, with their
huge bad loan portfolios and non-transferability of most of the debt/savings instruments are
regarded as the prime hindrance in the development of a debt market. Besides, lack of
institutions with expertise in debt products, not so high credibility of the corporate
borrowers, ever-increasing budget deficit resulting in heavy borrowings from the general
public as well as the banking sector through high yielding savings schemes and other
sovereign instruments, etc are also discouraging general investors from investing in other
financial products. Financial intermediaries do not also feel comfortable in launching new
debt products anticipating lack of interest from investors. To strengthen the financial sector
of Bangladesh, it appears that the focus should be on the development of the non-bank
financial institutions. However, the non-bank financial institutions of Bangladesh suffer from
two core problems, namely- mismatch between the maturity of assets and liabilities and the
quality of assets.
        To support the Financial Institutions (FIs), consisting of eligible non-banks and
banks, engaged in medium / long-term lending to private sector enterprises, and to develop
the capability of these FIs to raise and mobilize medium/long-term resources from the
market, the project named Financial Institutions development Project (FIDP) was launched
in 2000.
        Bangladesh Bank (BB) acted as an implementing agency of FIDP on behalf of
Finance Division, Ministry of Finance, Government of Bangladesh (GoB). FIDP was
implemented under Financial Institutions Department          (FID) of Bangladesh Bank with
support from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Directorate of
National Savings (DNS).

1.2 Objective of FIDP :

        The objective of the project was to promote the development of non- bank financial
institutions (NBFIs) in particular and investment financing, in general, on a sustainable basis
contributing to improvements in the quality of intermediation, and the speed and efficiency
of industrial growth in Bangladesh. FIDP aimed at broadening and deepening the financial
sector, with particular emphasis on the NBF sector, as well as improving the supply of and
access to term finance for private investment. This objective was planned to achieve through
a combination of mutually reinforcing policy, regulatory, and institutional reforms and
provision of investment finance for private sector development.

1.3 Components of FIDP




                                               52

The project comprised of the following two main components:

a. Resource Mobilization : This component was set to address the external factors that
delay or constrain resource mobilization from the financial market aimed at simplifying /
streamlining regulations for market traded debt instrument to facilitate bond and security
issues, creating an even playing field for the investors between market traded instruments
and government saving schemes, and developing market oriented mechanisms, for raising
funds by the government through strengthening government treasury bond markets.

b. Strengthening of Financial Institutions : This component consisted on creating a
Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility (CBSF), a facility within Bangladesh Bank to provide
funding to Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) through a variety of mechanisms that
would increase their funding while enabling and encouraging them to mobilize medium to
long term resources from the market. That would increase the development of term financing
by more efficient and healthy financial system.

1.3.(a) Resource Mobilization Component consisted of several sub-components:

        Development of Issue Rules for Bonds and Debentures
        Implementation of procedures for Market Traded Instruments
        SEC training on Debt Instruments
        Training of BB on Debt Instruments
        Reform of National Saving Schemes
        Development of Procedures for Secondary Treasury Bond (TB) Market

Development of Issue Rules for Bonds and Debentures and Implementation of
procedures for market traded Instruments: These two sub-components were merged
together and were renamed as "Development and Implementation of issue rules for market
traded instruments and regulations to foster secondary debt market". To implement these
components consultants were hired. International Science and Technology institute, Inc.,
USA provided the required consultancy to SEC as per agreement signed with them on
02.06.04. The contract value was US$0.32 million. The consultants completed their task by
June 2005.

SEC training on Debt Instruments and BB training on Debt Instruments: The
subcomponent "SEC training on debt instrument" aimed to finance travel expenses for SEC
staff to learn about security exchange commissions abroad in regulating debt instruments.
However, "BB training on debt instrument" component was merged with the BB/ GoB
training under development of CBSF.

Reform of National Saving Scheme (NSS): This aimed at reducing distortions that repress
potential demand for market traded instruments caused by the GoB's NSS and to be
accomplished by bringing benefits of NSS closer to market oriented instruments. Under this
sub-component an implementation plan was thought to be executed to facilitate access for
small savers including the establishment of a computerized system and an analysis on the


                                             53

impact on GoB's revenues with recommended measures if needed.

Development of procedures for secondary Treasury Bond (TB) Market:

Establishment of a secondary TB market would increase liquidity of TBs thus promoting the
development of a government bond market. BB did this task with the assistance from the
Reserve bank of India (RBI). Although this subcomponent is not funded from IDA, the
project has been benefited from its implementation.

1.3. (b) Strengthening of Financial institutions component consisted of several sub-
components.

        Development of CBSF
        Management of CBSF
        Funding of CBSF
        Capacity Enhancement of FIs Business Planning, Resources Management and MIS
        Resource Mobilization for FIs :
        Revision of CBSF Mechanism:

Strengthening of Financial institutions component consisted of creating Credit Bridge
and Standby Facility that was hoped to encourage the development of term financing by the
more efficient and healthy segment of the financial system. The CBSF was established to
provide funding from IDA through a variety of mechanisms that has increased their funding
while enabled and encouraged the FIs to mobilize medium to long-term resources from the
local market. The eligible FIs obtained fund from the CBSF as a credit line on "first come
first serve basis ".

Credit : Credit Line in local currency priced at market rate which was determined time to
time. It was disbursed to the PFIs . Credit part was divided into two i.e. Simple credit and
One: One credit. Total allocation was US$ 28.00 million.

Bridge Finance: After the maximum amount permitted under the credit line had been
reached FIs may require additional financing to accumulate earning assets to sell as
Collateralized Loan/Lease Obligations (CLOs). PFIs were provided bridge financing with a
maximum period for take-out arrangements.

Standby Support: Under the standby support, it was planned to purchase the bonds/
debentures or CLOs of the PFIs, which were, not sold into the financial market subject to the
event that the underwriters were unable to successfully market the bonds/debentures or
CLOs. Under FIDP all the PFIs issued bonds/ debentures through private placement. No
PFIs approached for standby support and that is why standby support was not necessary. The
budget was recollected to one:one credit.

Liquidity Mechanism: The CBSF had also a mechanism to provide liquidity to investors
who had purchased CLOs and bonds/debentures. Under a Repurchase Agreement or "Repo"
the CBSF would purchase the bonds/Debentures or CLOs at discount below their fare market



                                              54

value, as determined by the CBSF in its own judgment. The CBSF did not assume the credit,
market or interest rate risks associated with the FIs CLOs or bond/debentures. The investors
holding these instruments continued to carry these risks. The investor must agree to
repurchase the instruments within a predetermined period. Due to absence of legal entity
CBSF could not enter into any REPO (Repurchase agreement) with the investors. However
the re-flow income from FIDP were invested in Treasury bills and REPO/ reverse REPO in
the Treasury bond market.

Development of the CBSF : This subcomponent consisted of (i) implementation of the
CBSF's organizational structure including role of Government and Facility advisor;(ii)
Development and Implementation of accounting and MIS systems (iii) training of GOB/BB
staff and (iv) development/implementation of a communication programme for the CBSF.

Management of the CBSF: A CBSF advisor was required to (i) advise and assist BB with
the operation of the CBSF (ii) develop details of the operating systems of CBSF (iii) advise
FIs on use of the CBSF (iv) manage development of the system as necessary (v) handle
documentation for formation of the CLOs of the FIs (vi) implement the availments under the
CBSF (vii) recommend modifications of CBSF's policies and procedures (viii) recommend
modifications of CBSF's policies and procedures and (ix) submit reports and audits of the
CBSF.

Funding of CBSF: Cost of this component was estimated at least at US$ 49.00 m (IDA
US$40m, GoB US$5m, and FIs direct contribution to the subprojects US$4m). Initially
US$28m and US$ 17m of this fund was allocated for Credit Line and Bridge, Backdrop &
Liquidity Mechanism respectively. Later on all the funds were pooled together and declared
available for one: one credit upon the recommendation of mid term review mission.

Capacity Enhancement of FIs Business Planning, Resources Management and MIS :
Assistance to the eligible FIs in : (i) enhancing their capacity to develop strategic and
business plans to enable them to adjust to economic, policy changes and environmental
compliance (ii) strengthening their risk and resource management in particular credit
assessment and management and asset liability management, and (iii) modernizing support
systems in treasury operations, accounting, internal audit, legal and human resources
management were aimed.

Resource Mobilization for FIs : Assistance to FIs (including merchant banks) to develop
their capacity to mobilize medium to long term resource through issuance of
bonds/debentures and CLOs. Assistance will be provided in two steps (i) preparation of
internal systems for issuing bonds/debentures and CLOs (ii) advice and close coordination
in actual issuance of these instruments were the objectives.

Revision of CBSF Mechanism: Under this component some tasks i.e. preparation of
business plan (BP) and financial model for the CBSF, review of the liquidity mechanism and
strengthening of FI certification process were planned to be finished. This was dropped in
the revised financing plan.




                                               55

2.0 Implementation

2.1 Establishment and Management of Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility (CBSF):

The Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility (CBSF) was established in Bangladesh Bank
through FID Circular No. 07, dated 19 July, 1999 and Vinstar Limited, a New Zealand-based
consulting firm was appointed as the FA in December 1999.Facility Management Agreement
was signed with Vinstar Ltd. and Bangladesh Bank on 28-12-99 for 5 years. Total Contract
value was US$ 2.86 million. Vinstar Ltd. was entitled success fee in addition to this contact
amount. Under this contract 2 foreign and 3 local consultants along with 1 office secretary
worked from 14 February 2000 to 13 February 2005.

As per terms of reference the facility adviser's role were the following

        The facility adviser developed details of the operating systems of the CBSF.
        They assisted BB and PFIs in carrying out with prudence, diligence and care the
        operations of the CBSF.
        They also assisted in the coordination of technical assistance (TA) components
        relating to the development of CBSF internal system and various institutional
        building programmes for the benefit of FIs.

Initially total allocation for CBSF was US$49.00 m which includes IDA US$.40.00 m, GoB
US$.5.00 m and FIs US$.4.00 m (Later IDA reallocated additional US$.2.4 m from TA
components for CBSF funding. The GoB's US$5.00 m. was divided into two parts. US$.
3.00 m was for CBSF funding and US$2.00 m was for liquidity mechanism). The PFIs had
to finance firstly and then was reimbursed against eligible sub project from CBSF.

Credit and bridge facility under CBSF was introduced but Standby facility and Liquidity
mechanism could not be introduced. The Bridge and Standby funds were designed to act as
incentive for debt issues by PFIs, in practice they had not been effective in inducing FIs to
issue debt instruments. On the other hand, the credit component had been used more actively
due to the dearth of long-term sources of funds. Therefore further use of credit funds needed
to be linked to the issuance of debt instruments by the PFIs under one: one credit. This is to
mention here that under one:one credit facility the PFIs were required to mobilize local
resources. For every 1 $ resource mobilization the PFIs got another 1 $ from FIDP through
CBSF. Moreover all the funds were reallocated to a pool so that the PFIs could use the
credit, bridge and standby facilities as per their needs without being constrained by
individual constraints. A total of US$ 45.399 mill. was disbursed to 6 PFIs against 147
subprojects in various sectors, such as readymade garments, food, textiles, transportation,
ceramic, power. education, medical, accessories etc. These subprojects generated direct
additional employment and additional revenues.

2.2 Resource Mobilization:

Resource mobilization by the PFIs took place through two methods.

        1. Non-Securitized Debt Instruments (like- bonds and debentures)


                                               56

       2. Securitized Debt Instruments (like-CLOs, CMOs, etc.).

Under the first method PFIs mobilized domestic resources of Tk. 1408.33 million through
issuing plain bond and debentures to different institutional investors i.e private commercial
banks, insurance companies etc.

The second method involved the securitization and sale of its assets (credits). Under this
method, the PFIs spinned off accumulated quality-earning assets and sell participation on
these assets to investors in the form of certificates in a pool of loans or lease contracts called
collateralized loan obligation or lease obligations (CLO). The issuance of a securitized
instrument could not be done immediately after project launching because of the following

        (i)     Lack of a legal and institutional infrastructure to support such debt instrument
        (ii)    High issuance cost
        (iii)   Lack of sufficient local skills to manage such deals.

Various steps were taken to create enabling environment for Securitization under FIDP.
Hong Kong based consulting firm named International Securities Consultancy Limited (ISC)
was hired in May 2004 under which two international consultants and one local consultant
were engaged. The consultants worked with PFIs , BB, CBSF and relevant market
participants and authorities such as potential investors , merchant banks/underwriters, credit
rating agencies, Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), Controller of Insurance,
National Board of Revenue to undertake the following tasks

        Provide a working model including full documentation for securitization in light of
       existing legal tax, accounting and market conditions in Bangladesh.
       Establish the economies of securitization under current market conditions for
       individual PFIs by modeling the securitization of a pool of selected lease and loan
       assets from their portfolios. Such economic modeling should account of any market
       requirements for credit enhancement and of the proposal in the FIDP documentation
       for a "first loss" approach, of up to 30%, to be born by the PFI originator and of
       creation of cash reserves for debt servicing. Alternative economic models with
       different approaches to credit enhancement and debt servicing reserves can also be
       suggested.
        Provide a roadmap to achieve full best practice securitization by identifying the
       existing impediments and specifying legal, tax and accounting treatment changes and
       any other action necessary to remove such impediments and achieve full
       securitization in Bangladesh;
       Oversee the establishment of securitization infrastructure by PFIs including the
       establishment of Special Purpose Vehicles, Trusteeships (SPV and securities)
       Servicing and Asset Management, Custodial and paying agency arrangements and the
       like; and
       Oversee the preparations by each PFI for public issuance of debt securities in an
       initial securitization transaction. Such preparations will include obtaining any
       necessary credit ratings, establishing firm underwriting arrangements and meeting
       any other SEC requirements; and ideally would involve issuance.



                                                57

        Report on regulatory best practices for securitization, including the respective roles
        and responsibilities of the SEC and BB, noting any impediments to best practice
        arising from the definitions of their role under current legislation. In case of BB, the
        consultant should suggest prudential supervision guidelines for the undertaking of
        securitization by both banks and NBFIs
        Provide report aimed at policy markers on the macro-economic benefits of
        securitization, which can be used by the FIDP to engage and obtain commitment
        from the governing authorities in Bangladesh to deliver the environmental reforms
        necessary to permit full securirtization
        Advise PFIs on recommended practice of the public issue of debt secured on the
        assets of the issuer

The consultants of ISC submitted their final report on May 2005 describing various issues on
Securitization. They provided technical support to the PFIs who actively participated in the
Securitization process.

To pave the way of securitization in the financial market of Bangladesh, BB recommended
to the national Board of revenue (NBR) to take some regulatory measures. NBR accordingly
waived Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), a legal entity engaged in Securitization, from paying
income tax, stamp duty and VAT.

In fact FIDP came a long way in creating a facilitating environment for securitization in
Bangladesh. Though the first securitized issue was delayed yet at last securitization process
came true.

The following steps were taken to create congenial environment for Securitization Process.

    1. Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) a legal entity engaged in Securitization was waived
        from paying income tax, stamp duty and VAT.
    2. Securities And Exchange Commission (SEC) reduced consent fee applicable in case
        of Securitization .
    3. SEC issued Securities and Exchange Commission Rules 2004 on issuance of asset
        backed security.
    4. Interest income up to Tk.25,000/- from investing asset backed security were waived
        from paying income tax . The rest interest income would be subject to 10% tax.
        However the National Board of Revenue (NBR) repealed this later.
    5. Workshop on "Securitization" was arranged to make awareness about securitization
        among PFIs.

The above factors as well as technical assistance from FIDP encouraged the PFIs in
mobilizing domestic resources through securitization. During the FIDP tennure three PFIs
mobilized local resources by issuing zero coupon bond of Tk. 948.58 million under
securitization. Two other PFIs were awarded approval from BB for further issuance under
securitization. But due to repeal of respective circular regarding tax advantage by the NBR
the PFIs were discouraged towards further issuance. A leading micro finance institution was




                                               58

awarded NOC for issuance of securitized debt instruments for US$ 180.00 recently.

2.3 Development and implementation of issue rules for market traded instruments and
regulations to foster secondary debt market.

Since inception SEC promulgated many rules and regulations for regulating the capital
market in orderly manner but SEC had no clear rules for raising capital through issuance of
corporate and municipal bonds. It was required to develop regulations on bonds to pave the
way for establishment of primary and secondary bond markets. On the other hand, although
Bangladesh Bank, on behalf of the government issues different types of governments bonds
regularly, there existed no comprehensive rules for issuing government bonds. So in view of
developing rules to create the framework for issuing corporate, municipal and government
debt instruments, including Asset Backed Securities (ABS) and securitized issues and trading
them in the secondary market International Science and Technology Institute Inc. USA was
engaged for the following :

   1. Development of rules governing the issuance of corporate, municipal and
       government fixed income securities, including ABS and securitized issues;
   2. Development of rules governing trading of corporate, municipal and government
       fixed income securities, including ABS and securitized issues in the secondary
       market
   3. Preparation of manuals for;
            a. The investors on how to invest in different types of debt instruments;
            b. The market intermediaries for the diligence mechanism;
            c. The SEC staff on how to process debt issuance applications
            d. Bangladesh Bank staff for issuance of government bonds.
   4. Completion of the tasks associated with the implementation of the aforesaid rules at
       the Commission, Bangladesh Bank, Municipal Authority, Stock Exchanges and any
       other related organization;
   5. Recommendations for introduction of credit derivatives and draft rules for issuance,
       trading and settlement of these securities;
   6. Recommendations for reducing cost of issuance and trading of fixed income
       securities
   7. Imparting training to SEC, Bangladesh Bank, Municipal Authority and Stock
       Exchange staff and also to issuers and other intermediaries and investors;
   8. Suggesting rectification of the deficiencies of existing securities and other laws
       related to issuance of bonds, and trading of the same in the secondary market;
   9. Finding reasons of failure and non performances of debentures issued as part of
       securities in Bangladesh Capital Market and recommendations for addressing those
       problems/ shortcomings;
   10. Suggesting incentive structure for the market participants
   11. Assessing adequacy of the current market infrastructure to support transactions of
       debt instruments
   12. Suggesting settlement procedures for debt securities;
   13. Suggesting micro economic issues affecting bond market and remedy to correct
       distortions if any



                                              59

    14. Arranging study tours for SEC and Bangladesh Bank staff.

The consultants submitted their final report containing the proposed rules, forms and models
for adopting by the Securities and Exchange Commission while promulgating respective
rules. In respect of implementation, the Ministry of Finance, Bangladesh Bank and Securities
and Exchange Commission took the following measures:

    · Withholding tax of Govt. Bond was previously 45% then brought down to 20% and
        in the fiscal year 2005-06 10% upfront at the time of issuance of Govt. Bond.
    · A provision was made to start trading of Govt. bonds on the stock exchanges.
    · A committee was formed comprising senior officials of BB and SEC and
        representative from primary dealers.
    · A series of meetings held with the stock exchanges, primary dealers and lending
        dealers concerning trade and reduction of transaction charges; stock exchanges, the
        central depository company, brokers and dealers agreed to lower their respective fees
        for trading bonds.
    · SEC reduced consent fee and listing fee.
    · Bangladesh Bank is examining reducing the number of Govt. bond.
    · Credit Rating of bond issue has been mandatory.

2.4 Reform of the National Savings Scheme in Bangladesh

FIDP's one of the main objective was to create congenial environment so that the FIs can
mobilize domestic resources through issuing different debt instruments. One of the
impediments towards doing that was a high rate offered by different National Savings
Scheme (NSS). Though the rates offered by NSS were fair enough to small savers but it was
required to revise the national savings scheme to align their returns to those available in the
market providing certain concession for small savers.

These were planned to accomplish by aligning government saving schemes to market
oriented instruments considering measures such as tax rebates, steepening of yield curves by
lowering rates payable prior to maturity, lowering interest rates and making the national
savings certificates subject to the ten percent withholding tax applied to interest on bank
deposits. In light of the above, one of the components of FIDP is to reform the national
savings scheme. For implementation of the said component consultants from International
Science and Technology Institute, Inc, USA was hired. The consultants were required to do
the following:

    · Analyze historic and current performance of the NSS to determine how well it is
        meeting its objective;
    · Identify the impact of the NSS on savings and investment mobilization activities by
        other borrowers in the market;
    · Present selected similar savings schemes and provident funds are referents;
    · Evaluate the status of NSS record-keeping and determine future MIS requirements;
    · Recommend reforms to and restructuring of the NSS to fully meet its primary
        objective and ensure its impact on other borrowing activity in the market is


                                              60

        minimized;
    · Prepare a comprehensive plan for computerization of the NSS, to include

              (i) Data collection, manipulation and report requirements

              (ii) Recommended operating systems and applications

    · Design of the evaluation process for the procurement decision;
    · Organize a regional study tour program for IRD, DNS and BB officials to share the
        international best practice in this area.

The consultants submitted their report recommending various measures including structural
and operational reforms of the Directorate of National Savings (DNS) in view of effective
market oriented savings schemes. In order to minimize the interest cost to the government as
well as to avoid market distortion of the interest rate structure the DNS withdrew three high
interest bearing instruments i.e Paribar Sanchaypatra (5 years), Pratirakha sanchay patra and
6 monthly profit bearing sanchay patra (5 years) towards making the debt market more
competitive. It was stated in the report of the consultants that the implementation of their
recommendations would gradually but progressively transform DNS into an efficient,
customer oriented, viable and modern institutions, reduce the cost of borrowing for the
government and give an impetus to the development of the capital market. It was hoped that
reformed DNS would make a positive contribution to improve the macro economic situation
of Bangladesh and to the national effort.

2.5 Success :

    · FIDP established Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility (CBSF) and disburse the CBSF
        fund i.e a total of US$ 45.399 m (equivalent Tk. 263.34 crore) out of US$ 45.4 to the
        6 PFIs against 147 subprojects in various sectors, such as readymade garments, food,
        textiles, transportation, ceramic, health, education, power and accessories. These
        subprojects generated direct additional employment and additional revenues.
    · FIDP utilized about 100% of the IDA credit
    · Under the auspicious of FIDP financial market of Bangladesh had been acquainted
        with the practice of Securitization. Upon receipt of recommendations from
        Bangladesh Bank the NBR issued different SRO waiving Special Purpose Vehicle
        (SPV) a legal entity engaged in Securitization from paying income tax, stamp duty
        and VAT. The SEC reduced consent fee applicable in case of debt issuance and
        technical support was provided to the PFIs so that they could mobilize domestic
        resources through securitization . All these measures had a positive impact on the
        PFIs. Three of the PFIs had come forward to issue asset backed securities. They
        mobilized Tk. 948.58 million by issuing zero coupon bonds in accordance with
        securitization process. In addition to that PFIs had mobilized a total of Tk. 1408.33
        million through issuing plain bond and debentures to different institutional investors
        i.e private commercial banks, insurance companies etc.
    · PFIs are making repayment as per amortization schedule without any default. The
        reflow income from FIDP is being used as Liquidity Management Account.


                                                61

   · Scrip less Treasury Bills have been introduced in Bangladesh Bank along with REPO
       -Reverse REPO mechanism.
   · GoB reduced interest rate and number of saving certificates.
   · A number of training /study tour along with some workshop have been arranged
       under FIDP. Officials from MoF, ERD, Planning Commission, SEC and DNS
       participated in the training programme. Knowledge acquired from the training
       programme and workshop had contributed FIDP a lot.
   · 35 PCs, 35 UPS, 23 Leaser printer, 3 laptop, 8 photocopiers, 2 Fax machines, 2
       scanners, 1 Jeep and 1 Car had been procured under FIDP. Bangladesh Bank, Finance
       Division, SEC and DNS had used all these equipments in implementing the project.

2.6 Constraints

       In spite of having provision of standby facility in the FIDP, it could not be
       introduced. As all the PFIs issued bonds/debentures through private placement
       avoiding listing in the stock exchanges they did not feel the necessity of stand by
       facility. If listing in the stock exchanges were easier as well as deep capital market
       existed than standby facility could be exercised by the PFIs.
       Hiring of consultants for Development and implementation of issue rules for market
       traded instruments and regulations to foster secondary debt market and reform of
       savings scheme were delayed. In case of issue rule's consultants it was delayed due to
       receiving inadequate expression of interest and consultants for reform of savings
       scheme was delayed as finalization of TOR was delayed. If these consultants were
       hired earlier it would be better for implementation of FIDP.
       A number of measures were taken to introduce securitization under FIDP. So, during
       the FIDP tenure three PFIs mobilized domestic resources by issuing zero coupon
       bond of Tk. 948.58 million under securitization. Interest income up to Tk.25,000/-
       from investing asset backed security were waived from paying income tax . The rest
       interest income was subject to 10% tax. However, the National Board of Revenue
       (NBR) repealed this later so the enthusiasms regarding issuing securitized bonds
       could not be sustained.
       As hiring of consultants for reform of savings scheme was delayed procurement of
       software for reform of savings scheme could not be done finally.
Due to absence of legal entity, CBSF could not enter into any REPO (Repurchase
agreement) with the investors.




                                              62

Comments on Draft ICR:




                          63

64

65

66

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N.A.




                                     67

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. FIDP: Project Appraisal Document (PAD), August 24, 1999
2. FIDP : Project Negotiation Documents
3. FIDP : Development Credit Agreement between GoB and IDA
4. CBSF Reports prepared by Vinstar Limited (April 2000 to February 2005)
5. Asset Securitization by the FIs in Bangladesh, AIMS of Bangladesh Limited, September,
2002
6. Bangladesh Country Assistance Strategy: 2006-2009, The World Bank
7. Developing a Model for Securitization in Bangladesh-International Securities Consultancy
Limited(ISC),June 2004 to May 2005
8. Reports on Reform of National Savings Scheme in Bangladesh, by International Science
and Technology Institute (June 200 5 to February 2006)
9. Final Drafts of Laws, Rules and Forms of Documents delivered to the SEC for issue of
fixed income instruments, by Inter national Science and Technology Institute (Volume I, II,
III), dated March 3, 2005
10. Aide Memoires, Mid-Term Review Report, Project Status Reports
11. FIDP: Final Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA3) Report, April 12, 2000
12. Database of sub-projects financed by PFIs
13. Bangladesh - Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
14. Bangladesh Bank: Eligibility Assessment Reports on PFIs
15. Bangladesh Bank: A Guide to Assessing Eligibility Criteria For FIs, CBSF, FIDP, May
2004
16. Bangladesh Bank: Quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs)
17. Bangladesh Bank : FIDP ICR, Comments on Draft ICR, Project Database, and Impact
Analysis of CBSF




                                            68

