Report No. PID6577
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Financial Institutions (@+) ...
Development Project (formerly Non-Bank
Financial Markets Development Project)
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Finance
Project ID                       BDPE44811
Implementing Agencies            Agencies:  Financial Institutions Dept.
Bangladesh Bank
Addresses: Motijheel C/A   Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact:   Mr. Abul Quasem, General Manager
Telephone:   (8802) 955-5338
Date Prepared                    October 8, 1999
Initial PID prepared             March 30, 1998
Board Date                       September 16, 1999
1.      Project Objectives.   The objective of the project is to promote the
development of non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs), in particular, and
investment financing, in general, on a sustainable basis, improving the
quality of intermediation, and contributing to the speed and efficiency of
industrial growth in Bangladesh.
2.      Project Description.   The project consists of two components:
(a) Promoting Resource Mobilization: consulting services for (i)
simplifying/streamlining regulations for market traded instruments to
facilitate bond and security issues and providing training to the Securities
Exchange Commission and Bangladesh Bank, and (ii) implementing a plan to
facilitate access for small savers under the Government's National Saving
Schemes while avoiding distortions that repress potential demand for market
traded instruments.
(b) Strengthening the Institutional Capacity of NBFIs: design and
implementation of a financing facility - the Credit, Bridge and Standby
Facility (CBSF) - to encourage prudential and effective term lending by
financial intermediaries and at the same time ensure that financial
intermediaries develop their own market oriented sources of funding by selling
bonds and/or collateralized loan or lease obligations (CLOs). Consulting
services will be required to develop the CBSF and to assist the financial
intermediaries in business planning, resource management and resource
mobilization.
3.      Project Cost and Financing.   The cost of the project is:
US$ million
Total Cost:                      57.79
IDA:                             46.90
Govt./FIs/other                  10.79
4.      Project Implementation.   The Borrower is the Government of Bangladesh.
The Project Director is the Deputy Governor of Bangladesh Bank in charge of



the Financial Institutions Department.
5.      Project Sustainability.   Sustainability of the project beyond
implementation depends on three factors: (a) Capacity of financial
institutions for term lending and fund raising. This will be ensured through
stringent eligibility criteria for participating financial intermediaries and
provision of training; (b) Development of market sources of funding for term
lending. Revision of Government Saving Certificates to make them market
oriented and elimination of stamp duties on issuance of bonds will allow
financial institutions to become competitive in raising long term funds from
the market; and (c) Supply of funds by institutional investors.     In addition
to Nationalized Commercial Banks and general insurance companies, since
recently life insurance companies and pension funds are also allowed to invest
in bonds and securities.
6.      Lessons Learned. (a) Focus.   Experience in Bangladesh has shown that
focussed operations have a much higher chance of succeeding; (b) Capacity.
Due to the complexity and innovative nature of the project the project will
finance a consulting company in an advisory role for managing the CBSF; (c)
Sustainability. Sustainability of the project will be sought through its
support to FIs for developing their funding sources; and (d) Timetable. A
realistic timetable takes into account the procedures required to implement
government actions.
7.      Program Objective Categories.   Private/Financial Sector Development.
8.      Environmental Aspects.    The project has been given a "B"
environmental rating
due to the impact caused by industrial development under the financing
facility. Applications for subproject disbursement under the financing
facility would require clearance from the Department of the Environment for
those industries which are classified as potentially damaging to the
environment (categories orange and red).
9.      Project Benefits.   The overall economic benefit of the project would be
its support of the expansion of the sounder and more efficient part of the
financial sector, providing alternative opportunities for savers and an
increased supply of term funds for competitive projects.
10.     Project Risks.   Main risks and risk minimization measures are: (a) lack
of interest for bonds or CLOs of higher term maturity - liberalization of
government saving schemes and other policies will make these instruments
attractive; (b) lack of investors interest by industrial borrowers under the
project - analysis and previous experience has shown there is substantial
demand; (c) financial intermediaries may not be interested or qualified to
participate - consultations and appraisal of financial intermediaries has
shown that there is a number of interested and qualified financial
intermediaries; (d) Nationalized Commercial Banks may not limit their exposure
to term loans - the Government has confirmed its strategy to discourage these
institutions to increase their term lending activity until governance and
management are adequately reformed.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
-2-



The World Bank
1818 H Street N. W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:        (202) 522-1500
Alfredo Dammert
Task Manager
(202) 473-0142
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or components
may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 15, 1999.
- 3 -



Annex
Because this is a category B project it may be required that the borrower prepare
a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, onece it is prepared
and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document.
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex,
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
- 4 -



