Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3285 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Financial Institutions Development Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 29, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3285 BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1999, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated January 12, 1999 from 
the Borrower containing a detailed policy statement designed to reform the financial 
sector of the Borrower (hereinafter the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of such Program;
(B)
 the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
Page  2
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Administration Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and Bangladesh Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to 
such Administration Agreement; and
(b)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the bank called the Bangladesh Bank established 
by the Borrower’s Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President’s Order No. 127 of 1972) for 
the purpose of carrying out the business of central banking;
(c)
"Bridge Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by Bangladesh Bank 
upon the recommendation of the Facility Advisor to a PFI out of the proceeds of the 
Facility and to be utilized by the PFI for financing Investment Projects through the 
provision of Subloans and/or Lease Financing.
(d)
"Bridge Loan Access Agreement" means the agreement between the Bangladesh 
Bank and a PFI providing for a Bridge Loan;
(e)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Facility" means the Credit, Bridge and Standby Facility established by 
and within Bangladesh Bank as a special fund by Circular No. 07, dated July 19, 1999, 
for the purpose of providing Facility Loans to Participating Financial Institutions to 
be utilized for financing Investment Projects through the provision of Subloans and/or 
Lease Financing;
(h)
"Facility Access Agreements" means Investment Loan Access Agreement, 
Bridge Loan Access Agreement and Standby Loan Access Agreement;
(i)
"Facility Loans" means Investment Loan, Bridge Loan and Standby Loan;
(j) 
"Facility Management Agreement" means the Agreement entered into between 
Bangladesh Bank and the Facility Advisor for assisting Bangladesh Bank in managing and 
administering the Facility and setting out the procedures and terms and conditions for 
recommending the provision of Facility Loans to be made by Bangladesh Bank;
(k)
"Facility Advisor" means the Facility Advisor appointed by Bangladesh 
Bank for assisting Bangladesh Bank in managing and administering the Facility and 
recommending to Bangladesh Bank the provision of Facility Loans in accordance with the 
provisions of the Facility Management Agreement;
(l)
"Financial Institution" means a financial institution or a commercial 
bank established and operating under the relevant laws of the Borrower that meets the 
eligibility criteria for participating in the Project as set out in Part E of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement and that has entered into a Master Facility Agreement and a 
Facility Access Agreement with Bangladesh Bank for the purpose of providing Subloans;
Page  3
(m)
"Investment Enterprise" means a private enterprise or an enterprise in 
which private shareholders have majority ownership, and to which a Participating 
Financial Institution proposes to make or has made a Subloan or proposed to provide or 
has provided a Lease Financing;
(n)
"Investment Loan" means a loan made by or proposed to be made by 
Bangladesh Bank upon the recommendation of the Facility Advisor to a PFI out of the 
proceeds of the Facility and to be utilized by the PFI for financing Investment 
Projects through the provision of Subloans and/or Lease Financing;
(o)
"Investment Loan Access Agreement" means the agreement between Bangladesh 
Bank and a PFI providing for an Investment Loan;
(p)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan or a Lease 
Financing;
(q)
"Leasing Company" means a Leasing Company established and operating under 
the relevant laws of the Borrower that meets the eligibility criteria for 
participating in the Project as set out in Part E of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
that has entered into a Master Facility Agreement and a Facility Access Agreement with 
Bangladesh Bank for the purpose of providing Lease Financing;
(r)
"Lease Financing" means a financing provided or to be provided by a 
Leasing Company out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of the acquisition of 
plant, machinery and equipment that have been agreed to be leased by an Investment 
Enterprise for an Investment Project under terms and conditions that include, inter 
alia, a periodical payment to such Leasing Company of a rental charge;
(s)
"Operational Directives" means the Operational Directives issued by 
Bangladesh Bank for the purpose of regulating the operation of the Facility;
(t)
"Master Facility Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
Bangladesh Bank and Participating Financial Institutions setting out the general 
conditions in respect of the Facility Loans;
(u)
"PFI" and "Participating Financial Institution" mean a Financial 
Institution and/or a Leasing Company that meets the eligibility criteria for 
participating in the Project as set out in Part E of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(v)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(w)
"SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC. Rev. 3 (1986)) and such other future revisions as adopted by the Borrower and 
agreed by the Association.
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(y)
"Standby Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by Bangladesh 
Bank upon the recommendation of the Facility Advisor to a PFI out of the proceeds of 
the Facility and to be utilized by the PFI for financing Investment Projects through 
the provision of Subloans and/or Lease Financing;
(z)
"Standby Loan Access Agreement" means the agreement between Bangladesh 
and a PFI providing for a Standby Loan;
(aa)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Financial 
Institution out of the proceeds of the Credit to an Investment Enterprise for an 
Investment Project;
(bb)
"Taka" and ("TK") mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million five hundred thousand Special 
Page  4
Drawing Rights (SDR 34,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts 
paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by Bangladesh Bank 
upon the recommendation of the Facility Advisor under a Facility Access Agreement with 
a Financial Institution on account of: (i) withdrawals made by an Investment 
Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account 
is requested; and (ii) amounts paid by a Leasing Company pursuant to an agreement with 
an Investment Enterprise for a Lease Financing required for the Investment Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (b) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A, B.3 and B.4 of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2009 and ending April 1, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
Page  5
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
Bangladesh Bank to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and industrial practices, and 
shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause Bangladesh Bank to carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
In order to carry out the Project, the Borrower shall enter into an 
Administration Agreement with Bangladesh Bank, satisfactory to the Association, which 
shall include provisions set out in Part A of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  The 
Administration Agreement shall further include provisions that Bangladesh Bank shall 
administer the Loan on behalf of the Borrower, that the Borrower shall pay to 
Bangladesh Bank all its operating expenses incurred in administering the Loan, and 
that a portion of the proceeds of the Loan shall be utilized by Bangladesh Bank to 
provide Facility Loans through the Facility to PFIs in accordance with the procedures 
and terms and conditions set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Subloans and Lease Financing will be made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause Bangladesh Bank to exercise its rights in 
relation to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of 
the Borrower and of the Association; (ii) comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  6
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Bangladesh Bank, responsible for 
carrying out the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period, 
which:
(a)
(i)
set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and 
(ii) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and 
(ii)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
Page  7
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Borrower, Bangladesh Bank or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Facility or 
for the suspension of its operations.
(b)
The Borrower shall have taken any action for the dissolution or 
disestablishment of Bangladesh Bank or for the suspension of its operations.
(c)
Any provisions of the Operational Directives, the Administration 
Agreement, the Facility Management Agreement, any Master Facility Agreement and any 
Facility Access Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived without the written consent of the Association.
(d)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
Bangladesh Bank shall have issued Operational Directives satisfactory to 
the Association;
(b)
the Facility Management Agreement and the Administration Agreement shall 
have been executed; and
(c)
the Borrower shall have contributed the equivalent of US$3 million to the 
Facility for purposes of providing Investment Loans.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Administration 
Agreement and the Facility Management Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified 
by parties thereto and are legally binding upon the Borrower and the parties thereto 
in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the provisions of Section 
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development 
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement, whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary/Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant 
Secretary/Assistant Secretary/Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of 
the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address: 
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ Masihur Rahman
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick Temple
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A: General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Subloans and Lease
  29,420,000
100%
Financing
(2)
Goods
     960,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
Page  9
factory cost); and
80% of local expen- 
ditures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’services
   4,120,000
100%
and training
TOTAL
  34,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent 
of SDR 3,450,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 1, 1999; and
(b)
in respect of a Subloan or a Lease Financing unless the Subloan or the 
Lease Financing has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in 
Bangladesh Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Except as 
the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. Payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $9,500,000.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
Page  10
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote the development of financial 
institutions and improvements in investment financing on a sustainable basis through 
strengthening the quality of intermediation with the aim of increasing industrial 
growth in Bangladesh.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Resource Mobilization
1.
Development and implementation of simplified procedures for market traded 
financial instruments to facilitate issuance of bonds and other securities.
2.
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of Bangladesh Bank and the 
Securities and Exchange Commission of Bangladesh to develop and regulate debt market 
and instruments.
3.
Carrying out a program to reform the Borrowers National Savings Scheme in order 
to reduce distortions in the potential demand for market traded instruments while 
providing adequate incentives to small savers.
4.
Developing market mechanisms for raising funds by the Borrower through 
strengthening the secondary treasury bond market.
Part B:
Strengthening of Financial Institutions
1.
Financing of Investment Projects through the provision of Subloans and Lease 
Financing.
Page  11
2.
Provision of Investment Loan, Bridge Loan and Standby Loan through the Facility 
to be utilized by Participating Financial Institutions to finance Investment Projects.
3.
Strengthening the management and operation of the Facility.
4.
Strengthening the capacity of Participating Financial Institutions in the areas 
of business planning, resource mobilization and management information system.
*          *          *          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of 
Administration Agreement and Facility Loans
A.
Administration Agreement
1.
The Administration Agreement shall contain provisions, satisfactory to the 
Association, to ensure that the proceeds of the Loan are utilized by Bangladesh Bank 
to make Facility Loans through the Facility for the purpose of financing Investment 
Projects in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Administration 
Agreement. Towards that end the Administration Agreement shall contain provisions 
requiring:
(a)
Bangladesh Bank to appoint a Facility Advisor satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Association;
(b)
Bangladesh Bank to enter into a Facility Management Agreement with the 
Facility Advisor for assisting Bangladesh Bank in managing and administering the 
Facility and containing procedures and terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Borrower and the Association, including those set out in Part B of this Schedule;
(c)
Bangladesh Bank to enter into a Master Facility Agreement with 
Participating Financial Institutions that meet the eligibility criteria set out in 
Part E of this Schedule;
(d)
Bangladesh Bank to ensure that each Master Facility Agreement contains 
procedures and terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association 
for the purpose establishing the framework for making Facility Loans, including those 
set out in Part C of this Schedule;
(e)
Bangladesh Bank to ensure that it provides Facility Loans to PFIs under 
Facility Access Agreements in accordance with procedures, and containing terms and 
conditions, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, including those set out 
in Part D of this Schedule;
(f)
Bangladesh Bank to ensure that it disburses Facility Loans to PFIs 
against Subloans and Lease Financing;
(g)
Bangladesh Bank to ensure that it requires PFIs to make Subloans and 
Lease Financing in accordance with the procedures and the terms and conditions set out 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(h)
Bangladesh Bank to provide to the Borrower all reports that Bangladesh 
Bank receives from the Facility Advisor under the Facility Management Agreement.
(i)
Bangladesh Bank to provide Facility Loans to Participating Financial 
Institutions (PFIs) from the Facility upon the recommendation of the Facility Advisor 
for the purpose of financing Investment Projects in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Administration Agreement, the Facility Management Agreement and 
the Operational Directives.
(j)
Bangladesh Bank to make available three types of Facility Loans to PFIs 
from the Facility:
(A)
Investment Loan: Bangladesh Bank shall provide Investment Loans to 
PFIs in order to enable PFIs to make Subloans and Lease Financing 
to Investment Enterprises in accordance with the procedures and on 
the terms and conditions set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  12
After a PFI shall have received Investment Loans in an aggregate 
amount of US$ 4 million that is financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, a PFI shall be eligible to receive additional 
Investment Loans only if it has received Bridge Loans or Standby 
Loans and the amount of the additional Investment Loans shall not 
be greater than the aggregate of resources mobilized by the PFI in 
the process of receiving Bridge Loans and proceeds through 
Offerings as set out in clause (C) of this paragraph. A PFI shall 
not be 
eligible to receive Investment Loans after Bangladesh Bank 
shall have 
committed the equivalent of US$ 25 million in 
Investment 
Loans from the Facility that is financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Credit. With the prior approval of the Borrower 
and the 
Association, Bangladesh Bank may consider other forms of 
resource mobilization.
(B)
Bridge Loan: Bangladesh Bank shall provide Bridge Loans to PFIs to 
enable them to accumulate quality earning assets and sell 
participation on these assets in the form of participation 
certificates in a pool of either loans or lease contracts 
("Collateralized Loan Obligations" or "Collateralized Lease 
Obligations", collectively referred to as "CLOs"). Bangladesh Bank 
shall ensure that adequate arrangements are in place for the 
repayment of the Bridge Loans from other sources so that the 
Subloan against which the Bridge Loan is disbursed continues to be 
available to finance the related Investment Project.
(C)
Standby Loan: Bangladesh Bank shall provide Standby Loans to PFIs 
equivalent to the amount agreed to be paid out of the Facility in 
accordance with the applicable Master Facility Agreement and the 
Standby Loan Access Agreement, and financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, as the purchase price for CLOs or bonds/debentures 
issued by PFIs ("Offering") under underwriting arrangements, 
satisfactory to Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the Association, 
which the underwriter fails to sell. The amount of a Standby Loan 
shall not exceed a certain percentage of the Offering determined 
in accordance with procedures set out in the Operational 
Directive.  Where the underwriter fails to sell and Bangladesh 
Bank purchases the Offering upto such amount in accordance with 
its standby commitment, the Standby Loan shall be considered to be 
drawn down and shall be disbursed against Subloans and Lease 
Financing. If the Offering or any portion thereof corresponds to 
Investment Projects financed out of the proceeds of Investment 
Loans or Bridge Loans, the amount received by the PFI from the 
Facility Advisor as the purchase price for such Offering or part 
thereof under the Standby Loan shall be utilized by the PFI to 
repay the corresponding Investment Loans and Bridge Loans. 
Bangladesh Bank shall hold the Offering purchased in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of such Offering.
(k)
Bangladesh Bank to make Facility Loans under terms and conditions as set 
out in Part F of this Schedule.
(l)
Bangladesh Bank to disburse Facility Loans to PFIs against Subloans and 
Lease Financing made in accordance with procedures and under terms and conditions set 
out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(m)
Bangladesh Bank to enter into a Master Facility Agreement with each 
Participating Financial Institution that meets the eligibility criteria set out in 
Part E of this Schedule.
(n)
Bangladesh Bank to ensure that each Master Facility Agreement contains 
procedures and terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association 
for the purpose establishing the framework for making Facility Loans, including those 
set out in Part C of this Schedule.
(o)
Bangladesh Bank to provide Facility Loans to PFIs under Facility Access 
Agreements in accordance with procedures, and containing terms and conditions, 
satisfactory to, the Borrower and the Association, including those set out in Part D 
of this Schedule;
(p)
Bangladesh Bank to duly perform all its obligations under the 
Administration Agreement, and except as the Association and the Borrower shall 
Page  13
otherwise agree, Bangladesh Bank shall not take or concur in any action which would 
have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Administration 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
B.
Facility Management Agreement
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the terms and conditions of the 
Facility Management Agreement shall, inter alia, provide that:
1.
The Facility Advisor shall assist Bangladesh Bank to manage, operate and 
administer the Facility in accordance with the Operational Directives and sound 
administrative and financial standards and practices.
2.
The Facility Advisor shall duly perform all its obligations under the Facility 
Management Agreement. Except as Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Facility Advisor shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Facility 
Management Agreement, or any provision thereof.
3.
The Facility Advisor shall, at the request of the Bangladesh Bank, exchange 
views with Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the Association with regard to the 
performance of its obligations under the Facility Management Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Facility and the Credit.
4.
The Facility Advisor shall promptly inform Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the 
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Facility or the Credit or the performance by the 
Facility Advisor of its obligations under the Facility Management Agreement, the 
Master Facility Agreement and the Facility Access Agreements.
5.
The Facility Advisor shall provide to Bangladesh Bank monthly, quarterly and 
semiannual reports in a format satisfactory to Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the 
Association, setting out, inter alia, the demand and utilization of Facility Loans  
and all relevant data relating to the resource mobilization aspects of PFI’s 
operations.
C.
Master Facility Agreement
Bangladesh Bank shall enter into a Master Facility Agreement with each 
Participating Financial Institution that meets the eligibility criteria set out in 
Part E of this Schedule. Except as the Borrower, Bangladesh Bank and the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the terms and conditions of each Master Facility Agreement 
shall, inter alia, provide that:
1.
The PFI shall conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced management and in 
accordance with its Charter, its Statement of Lending Policy as adopted and approved 
by its Board of Directors, and a three-year business plan for term lending or lease 
financing, satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The PFI shall establish and maintain procedures and operational policies, 
satisfactory to Bangladesh Bank, for the appraisal, supervision and monitoring of 
Facility Loans, Subloans and Lease Financing.
3.
The PFI shall, unless the Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the Association 
shall otherwise agree, ensure that Subloans and lease Financing will be made in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The PFI shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the 
Association and of the PFI; (ii) comply with its obligations under the Master Facility 
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purpose of the Credit.
5.
The PFI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Master Facility 
Agreement. Except as the Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the PFI shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Master Facility Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
6.
The PFI shall, at the request of Bangladesh Bank, exchange views with Bangladesh 
Bank with regard to the performance of its obligations under the Master Facility 
Page  14
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
7.
The PFI shall promptly inform the Borrower and Bangladesh Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the Credit or the performance by the PFI of its obligations under the Master Facility 
Agreement.
8.
The PFI shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the 
progress of each Investment Project  (including its cost and the benefits to be 
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound 
accounting practices the operations and financial condition of the PFI.
9.
The PFI shall enter into Facility Access Agreements with Bangladesh Bank for 
receiving Facility Loans.
10.
Facility Loans shall be disbursed to PFIs against Subloans and Lease Financing 
made by PFIs to finance Investment Projects.
11.
Bangladesh Bank shall make available Facility Loans in accordance with, inter 
alia, the provisions of the Facility Management Agreement.
12.
The terms and conditions of Facility Loans shall be as set out in Part F of this 
Schedule.
13.
The right of PFIs to use the proceeds of Facility Loans shall be suspended or 
terminated upon the suspension or termination of the related Subloans or Lease 
Financing for the relevant Investment Project.
D.
Facility Access Agreement
Bangladesh Bank shall enter into a Facility Access Agreement with each PFI for 
each Facility Loan. Except as the Borrower, Bangladesh Bank and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the terms and conditions of a Facility Access Agreement shall, inter 
alia, provide that:
1.
The Facility Loan shall be utilized by the PFI to provide a Subloan or a Lease 
Financing for the purpose of financing an Investment Project.
2.
The PFI shall, unless the Borrower, Bangladesh Bank and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, ensure that Subloans and Lease Financing will be made in accordance 
with procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
3.
In respect of the Facility Loan, the PFI shall comply with all its relevant 
obligations set out in the Master Facility Agreement.
4.
The PFI shall duly perform all its obligations under the Facility Access 
Agreement. Except as Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the PFI shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the Facility Access Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
5.
The PFI shall, at the request of Bangladesh Bank, exchange views with Bangladesh 
Bank with regard to the performance of its obligations under the Facility Access 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
6.
The PFI shall promptly inform Bangladesh Bank, the Borrower and the Association 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit or the performance by the PFI of its obligations under the 
Master Facility Agreement.
7.
The PFI shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the 
progress of each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived 
from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of the PFI.
8.
The Facility Loan shall be disbursed to the PFI against a Subloan or Lease 
Financing made by the PFI to finance an Investment Project.
9.
The terms and conditions of the Facility Loan shall be as set out in Part F of 
this Schedule.
Page  15
10.
The right of the PFI to use the proceeds of the Facility shall be suspended or 
terminated upon the suspension or termination of the related Subloan or Lease 
Financing for the relevant Investment Project.
E.
Eligibility Criteria for Participating Financial Institutions
Participating Financial Institutions shall meet eligibility criteria 
satisfactory to the Association in order to participate and to maintain its 
participation in the Project.
F.
Terms and Conditions of Facility Loans
Except as the Borrower, Bangladesh Bank and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the terms and conditions of Facility Loans shall include, inter alia, the 
following:
1.
Facility Loans shall be denominated in Taka.
2.
Investment Loans shall be repaid over a period equivalent to the repayment 
period of the Subloans against which the Investment Loans are disbursed.
3.
Bridge Loans shall be repaid over a period not exceeding eighteen (18) months.
4.
The eligibility criteria and the procedures for Facility Loans shall include 
those set out in the Operational Directive and in paragraphs 3 and 5 of Part B of this 
Schedule.
5.
The interest rate on Investment Loans shall be a fixed rate equivalent to the 
average yield on the Treasury Bills of the Borrower of all maturity for the past three 
months plus a margin calculated in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Operational Directive, provided, however that the interest rate shall not be less than 
the Bangladesh Bank Rate plus a margin of 150 basis points. For the purposes of this 
clause, the term "Bangladesh Bank Rate" means the Rate published by Bangladesh Bank in 
accordance with Article 21 of the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972.
6.
The interest rate on Bridge Loans shall be determined in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
7.
Standby Loans shall carry a commitment fee and a penalty fee to be paid on the 
outstanding amount of the Standby Loan not drawn down that shall be commensurate with 
the overall cost of underwriting the CLOs and bonds/debentures of PFIs calculated in 
accordance with procedures set out in the Operational Directive.
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of 
Subloans and Lease Financing
A.
Subloans
1.
Subloans shall be denominated in Taka.
2.
The interest rate on Subloans shall be determined by the respective Financial 
Institution in accordance with its usual lending practices.
3.
Subloans shall be repaid over a period of time not exceeding ten years 
determined by the respective Financial Institution in accordance with its usual 
lending practices.
4.
The maximum Subloan size, and the maximum Subloan amounts outstanding to any one 
Investment Enterprise, by a Financial Institution shall not exceed an amount equal to 
the smaller of: (i) 25% of the Financial Institution's capital, defined as paid-in 
capital and reserves, including general reserves, but excluding specific provisions 
for bad and doubtful debts; or (ii) Tk 100,000,000.
5.
The amortization schedule applicable to each Subloan financed out of the 
proceeds of an Investment Loan shall conform to the amortization schedule of the 
applicable Investment Loan and the amortization schedule applicable to each Subloan 
financed out of the proceeds of a Bridge Loan shall conform to the amortization 
schedule of the applicable Bridge Loan. 
6.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
Page  16
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 120 days prior 
to the date on which the Association shall have received in respect of such Subloan 
the application and information required under paragraph 7 (a) of this Schedule in 
respect of such Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a Subloan for 
which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account without prior 
approval by the Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier 
than 120 days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the 
request and information required under paragraph 7 (b) of this Schedule in respect of 
such Subloan.
7.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan to the Association for approval, the Borrower 
shall cause Bangladesh Bank to forward to the Association an application submitted by 
a Financial Institution, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a 
description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, 
including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and (iii) such other 
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account in respect of a Subloan for which prior approval by the Association 
is not required shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment Enterprise 
and the Investment Project, including a description of the probable environmental 
impact and of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of 
amortization therefor.
(c)
The first two Subloans by a Financial Institution shall be subject to 
prior approval by the Association. Subsequent Subloans by such Financial Institution 
may be exempt from prior approval as the Association shall agree.
(d)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the Association on or before June 
30, 2004.
(e)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this Section shall also include evidence that the Investment Project 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan does not include activities 
of a military or paramilitary nature or activities in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any success or groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, 
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower.
Group
Description of Items
112
Alcoholic beverages
121
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525
Radioactive and associated materials
667
Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for 
nuclear reactors
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals 
(except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ 
or silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems)
Page  17
971
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates)
8.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Financial Institution shall obtain, 
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and 
the Financial Institution, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in accordance with established commercial 
practices and procedures satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) such goods and 
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and 
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Association or the 
Financial Institution shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operation and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Financial Institution.
B.
Lease Financing
1.
Lease Financing shall be denominated in Taka.
2.
The charge on Lease Financing shall be determined by the Leasing Company in 
accordance with its usual financial practices and allow for a spread to the Leasing 
Company sufficient to cover its costs, and a profit margin; provided, however, that 
each charge shall consist in part of an amortization component, which component shall 
be calculated as if: (A) the Lease Financing were a loan for the amount of the leased 
plant’s, equipment’s and machinery’s value; (B) each charge were a payment of interest 
and principal under such loan; and (C) each amortization component were the principal 
amount included in each such payment of interest and principal.
3.
Lease Financing shall be over a period of time not exceeding six years 
determined by the respective Leasing Company in accordance with its usual practices.
4.
The maximum size of the Lease Financing, and the maximum Lease Financing 
outstanding to any one Investment Enterprise, by a Leasing Company shall not exceed:  
(i) 25% of the Leasing Company’s capital, defined as paid-in capital and reserves, 
including general reserves, but excluding specific provisions for bad and doubtful 
debts; or (ii) TK100,000,000 at the time of Lease Financing commitment.
5.
No expenditures for plant equipment or machinery vehicles required for an 
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit 
unless:
(a)
the Lease Financing for such Investment Project shall have been approved 
by the Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 120 
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received in respect of such 
Lease Financing the application and information required under paragraph 6 (a) of Part 
B of this Schedule in respect of such Lease Financing; or
(b)
the Lease Financing for such Investment Project shall have been a Lease 
Page  18
Financing for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account 
without prior approval by the Association and such expenditures shall have been made 
not earlier than 120 days prior to the date on which the Association shall have 
received the request and information required under paragraph 6 (b) of Section B of 
this Schedule in respect of such Lease.
6.
(a)
When presenting a Lease Financing to the Association for approval, the 
Borrower shall forward to the Association an application submitted by the Leasing 
Company, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with: (i) a description of 
the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Lease Financing, including the 
schedule of amortization and charges on the lease Investment; and (iii) such other 
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Credit Account in respect of a Lease Financing for which prior approval by the 
Association is not required shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment 
enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of the probable 
environmental impact and of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the major terms and conditions of the Lease 
Financing, including the schedule of amortization and charges of the Lease Financing.
(c)
The first two Lease Financings by a Leasing Company shall be subject to 
prior approval by the Association. Subsequent Lease Financings by such Leasing Company 
may be exempt from prior approval as the Association shall agree.
(d)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to the Association on or before June 
30, 2004.
7.
Lease Financing shall be made on terms whereby the Leasing Company shall obtain, 
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and 
the Leasing Company, including the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the plant, equipment or machinery to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased, in accordance with established 
commercial practices and procedures satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) such 
plant equipment or machinery shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such plant, equipment or machinery and the sites, 
works and plants included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of equipment and/or vehicles financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair 
such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Association or the 
leasing Company shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the Leasing Company.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Page  19
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in 
September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section 1.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Direct Contracting
Computer software which must be purchase from the original supplier to be 
compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $270,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. \0c3. Procurement 
under Subloans
Goods to be financed out of the proceeds of Subloans shall be procured by 
Investment Enterprises in accordance with established commercial practices 
satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts in each year of 
Project implementation, the proposed procurement plan for the Project for that year, 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for computers and equipment, goods and civil works 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
Page  20
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the 
following parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals in each year 
of Project implementation, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project for that year shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
Page  21
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 30, 2000 and February 28, 2003, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by December 31, 2000 and May 31, 2003, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
2.
The Borrower shall provide to the Association all reports that the Borrower 
receives from Bangladesh Bank under the provisions of the Administration Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a) 
no later than thirty days after the Effective Date formulate proposals 
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)
to reduce stamp duties on issuance of bonds and debentures; and
(ii)
to reform the National Savings Scheme in order to reduce 
distortions in the potential demand for market traded instruments; 
and
(b)
implement these proposals immediately after their approval in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall, no later than ninety days after receiving a request from 
Bangladesh Bank showing that there is demand for support from the Facility for the 
resource mobilization activities of PFIs in accordance with criteria satisfactory to 
the Association, contribute an amount equivalent to US$2 million to the Facility in 
addition to the amount contributed pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement.
5.
The Borrower shall not make available investment funds to, or require resource 
mobilization activities to be undertaken by, any Financial Institution, whether or not 
it participates in the Project, under terms, conditions and incentives which, in the 
judgment of the Association, has the effect of making any Facility Loan or any 
Offering referred to in Part A.1 (j) (C) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement relatively 
less attractive or less competitive, or adversely affects the achievements of the 
objectives of the Facility.
