Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 25668 YU
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 60.4 MILLION (US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
March 20, 2003
Human Development Sector Unit (ECSHD)
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



C. LIRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 12, 2003)
Unit of currency: Serbian Dinar
1 Serbian Dinar=-US$0.02
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
COUNTRY NAME NOTE: On February 4, 2003, the official
name of what was formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(FRY) changed to Serbia and Montenegro (SAM). In this
document, all references to SAM which predate the change of
name should be understood to refer to FRY, and all references to
the Union should be understood to refer to the Federal level.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment  MOF        Ministry of Finance (SAM)
DFID    Department for International Development (UK)  MOFE     Ministry of Finance and Economy (Serbia)
EBFs    Extra-budgetary Funds                      MOH          Ministry of Health (Serbia)
ECA    Europe and Central Asia                    MOSA          Ministry of Social Affairs (Serbia)
EU      European Union                             NBY          National Bank of Yugoslavia
FRY     Federal Republic of Yugoslavia             PEM          Public Expenditure Management
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                     PFSAC        Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
GOS     Govermment of Serbia                       PIO          Pension and Invalid Fund
HBS    Household Budget Survey                     PRA          Public Revenue Agency
HIF     Health Insurance Fund                      SFRY         Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
ICM    Initial Concept Memorandum                  SOSAC        Social Sector Adjustment Credit
IMF     International Monetary Fund                SPEAG        Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant
LBS     Law on the Budget System                   TA           Technical Assistance
LDP     Letter of Development Policy               TSSU         Transitional Support Strategy Update
LIL     Learning & Innovation Loan                 WG           Working Group
LMB     Labor Market Bureau                        WHO          World Health Organization
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Neil Simon M. Gray (Acting)
Sector Manager Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader: Philip OKeefe



IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A
PROPOSED SOCLAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
Table of Contents
CREDIT SUMMARY .........................................................................I
I.   THE ECONOMY ..........................................................................3
II.   THE PROPOSED SOSAC OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE ....................................................7
m. SOCIAL POLICY REFORM                 PROGRAM        SUPPORTED BY SOSAC: .......................................9
A. Pensions: .......................................................................... 10
B. Harmonizing payroll taxes and reforming budget management in extra-budgetary funds ........ 12
C. Health Sector .........................................................................                     14
D. Labor and Employment .........................................................................              17
E. Social and Child Protection .........................................................................       19
F. Poverty Monitoring and Capacity Building ..........................................................................   22
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..........................................................................             23
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement .........................................................................     23
B. Benefits and Risks .........................................................................                23
C. Coordination with the IMF and other donors ..........................................................................   24
D. Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision ................................................................... 25
E. Fiduciary and accountability environment .........................................................................  26
F. Project Management Issues .........................................................................         27
ANNEXES:
Annex 1: Main Economic Indicators .........................................................................    29
Annex 2: Statement of Loans and Credits .........................................................................  31
Annex 3: Timetable of Key Processing Events .........................................................................  33
Annex 4: Letter of Sectoral Development Policy .........................................................................   34
Annex 5: Agreed policy matrix for proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) ............... 48
Annex 6: Additional monitoring indicators for medium term              SOSAC program ............................... 53
Annex 7: SAM       and Serbia's PRSP process and the SOSAC ................................................................ 54
Annex 8: Poverty in Serbia and Montenegro .........................................................................  56
Annex 9: Country At a Glance .........................................................................         57
Annex 10: Fund Relations Note .........................................................................        59
Staff and consultants who contributed dunng preparation include Philip O'Keefe (Task Team Leader), Zoran Anusic, Mamta
Murthi, Dena Ringold, Marina Petrovic, Aleksandra Posarac, Arvo Kuddo, Jan Rutkowksi, Loraine Hawkins, Jan Bultman,
Pierella Paci, Nadejda Mochinova, Anahit Poghosyan (ECSHD), Ardo Hansson, Ruslan Yemtsov, Sergei Shatalov (ECSPE),
Mark Walker (LEGOP), Joseph Formoso (LOEAL), and Michael Gascoyne (ECCYU) The team also benefited from inputs of
Rory O'Sullivan and Nancy Cooke, Country Manager and Lead Country Officer for SAM respectively Peer reviewers are Neeta
Sirur (LACVP) and Mukesh Chawla (ECSHD) Annette Dixon and Michal Rutkowski (ECSHD) are the Sector Director and
Sector Manager respectively






Serbia and Montenegro
Social Sector Adjustment Credit
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Serbia and Montenegro (SAM).
Amount:                      SDR 60.4 million (US$80 million equivalent).
Terms:                       Modified IDA terms with a 20-year maturity, including a 10-year grace
period and no acceleration clause.
Objectives:                 The overall goal of the SOSAC is to support the governments of the
union of Serbia and Montenegro and its largest constituent member
state, Serbia, in implementation of reforms in social protection, labor
and health which are more fiscally sustainable while continuing to
provide core benefits and services to the population, in particular the
poorest. The two overarching objectives are to: (i) reduce short and
medium term fiscal pressures from social programs through a
combination of entitlement reform and efficiency improvements; and
(ii) maximize the poverty alleviation impact of a given level of public
spending through improved targeting and sustained access for the poor
to services. The subsidiary objective of the operation would be
improved transparency and accountability in the management of public
funds in social programs and monitoring of their impact.
Benefits:                    The main benefits of the operation would be:
(i)  support for reforms which should contribute significantly to
expenditure control in the short term and reduction in the
medium term;
(ii) efficiency improvements in a number of programs, including the
health sector, active labor programs for the unemployed, and
social protection, which should contribute to greater cost-
effectiveness in public spending;
(iii) improved poverty alleviation from public spending, through a
more equitable social safety net which better targets the poor
wherever resident in Serbia.  Several of the health sector
measures also support continued access to services for the poor;
(iv) greater transparency in public resource management and
planning, particularly in extra-budgetary funds; and
(v)  better information on living standards, which would provide a
firm basis for evaluating the impact of public policy and
developing future reforms with a clearer sense of their likely
welfare impact across different population groups.



Risks:                       The proposed operation faces several risks, which are discussed at
paragraph 72, including mitigating factors. The main risks are:
(i)    political uncertainty related to the implementation of the new
constitutional arrangements in the union of Serbia and
Montenegro and its constituent member states. These are
compounded by additional uncertainty related to the March
assassination of the Serbian Prime Minister, and the failure of
Serbian presidential elections in late 2002 owing to insufficient
voter turnout;
(ii)   capacity to coordinate and deliver reforms across social
sectors; and
(iii)  risks of external shocks which could strain Serbia's ability to
maintain a sustainable macroeconomic framework, including
slower than anticipated recovery in the economies of key
trading partners, lower than expected foreign investment, and
further delays in reaching a debt rescheduling agreement with
the London Club.
In terms of the substantive reforns, the following risks are anticipated:
challenges in ensuring that the systemic pension reform is acceptable
to key stakeholders; and for health sector reforms, considering that
reforms are difficult and an often painful process, there could be
resistance to greater efficiency and transparency. In addition, the
proposed expansion of social groups obliged to make co-payments may
be unpopular, and intra-sectoral coordination will need to continue to
be strengthened.
Schedule of Disbursements:   Two tranches
Poverty Category:            N/A
Rate of Return:              N/A
Project ID Number:           P078390
Map                          IBRD 31506



PROGRAM DOCUMENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.   I submit for your approval the following Program Document on a proposed Social Sector
Adjustment Credit to Serbia and Montenegro (SAM) for SDR 60.4 million (US$80 million equivalent) to
support the Government's sectoral reform program. The Credit would be provided on modified IDA
terms with a 20-year maturity, including a 10-year grace period with no acceleration clause. This Report
is accompanied by the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President on the proposed Credit, and
should also be read in conjunction with the Transitional Support Strategy Update (TSSU) of the World
Bank Group for Federal Republic of Yugoslavia discussed by the Board on August 8, 2002 (Report no.
R2002-0142). A full CAS is expected to be presented to the Bank's Board in late 2003, pending
completion of the full PRSP.'
I. THE ECONOMY
2.   The Legacy of the Past. The renewed transition to a market economy in SAM began under very
difficult economic circumstances. By 2000, recorded per capita GDP had fallen to about one half of its
1989 level. Foreign trade volumes also declined sharply while inflation was chronic. SAM accumulated
larre domestic and external debts, with the latter reaching around 133 percent of GDP in 2000 (see Table
1). Low visible cash deficits of the consolidated government were achieved largely through
unsustainable expenditure compression, accumulation of budgetary arrears, non-servicing of public debt,
and the toleration of quasi-fiscal deficits in the enterprise and banking sectors. SAM's real sector became
inefficient due to lack of market orientated ownership structures, loss of markets, delayed investment and
maintenance, and repressive taxation and regulation. The banling sector became loss making, with most
major banks insolvent. This pushed a significant portion of the economy into the informal sector, eroding
the revenue base and leaving many residents with little or no access to social protection.
3.   Poor economic performance adversely affected living standards of the vast majonty of the Serbian
population. The most recent information on household welfare in Serbia comes from a representative
household survey carried out in mid-2002, which indicates around 10.6 percent of the Serbian population
living in poverty, and around twice that share living on or at the edge of poverty. 3 More details of the
survey results and poverty profile are provided in Annex 8. The increase in poverty dunng the 1 990s was
fueled by a detenoration in social protection and health services, as available financing fell below existing
entitlement levels. At the same time, the centralization of political power at the federal level weakened
economic institutions, degraded public accountability and led to more government intervention in markets
(e.g., with pnce and exchange controls). The effects of poor economic management were compounded by
sanctions from 1992 to 1996 and again in 1998-2000.
On February 4, 2003, the official name of what was formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) changed
to Serbia and Montenegro (SAM). In this document, all reference to SAM which predate the change of name
should be understood to refer to FRY, and all references to the Union should be understood to refer to the Federal
level.
2 GDP figures exclude Kosovo.
3Posarac and Krstic: The Poverty Profile of Serbia, December 2002.
3



4.    Recent reform      progress. In    breaking   with  this difficult legacy, the    Federal and     Serbian
governments have followed a two-pronged approach combining stabilization measures with the first steps
in an agenda of structural reforms aimed at initiating the delayed transition. Motivated by the need to
manage hidden fiscal liabilities, the authorities' key instrument for macroeconomic stabilization has been
the adjustment of fiscal deficits towards levels financeable from non-inflationary sources. This policy
shift has been supported by initial reforms of public financial management and the tax system, and
through progress in adjusting or freeing prices to contain quasi-fiscal risks in the form of losses of key
state enterprises.
Table 1: Key Economic Indicators
1998    1999    2000      2001    2002    2003     2004    2005
Nabonall Acons
GDP (US$ millions) 1/                                   8603     11577   15656   19868   20909    21926
Real GDP growth (%)                             -15.7    5.0       5 5     4 0     5 0      40      4 0
Investment (% of GDP)                                    14 2     13 6     16 1    17 0    17.6    18 5
Gross Domestic Savings (% of GDP)                        -2 7      -7 2    -7.0    -3 0    -1 0     0.7
Public Sector Balance
Expenditures (% of GDP)                                 37 6      40 2    47 5     45 6    45 2    44 3
oaw public Investment                                    31       1.6      36      3 4     4.1     4 5
Revenue before grants                                   36 7      389     425      412     410     40 2
Defcit before grants (% of GDP)                          09        1.3     50       4 4     4.2     4.1
Extemal Account
Exports of goods and services (% change) 2/  20.9  -45 6  18 6     7 7     18 2    23 2    13.7    11.3
Importsofgoodsandservioes(%change) 2/    21    -328      131      289      329     163      67      6.2
Current account balance                 -660    -764    -339      -528    -1388  -1685    -1651   -1588
as % of GDP                                             -39       -46     -89     44       -7.9    -72
Indebens
TDO/XGS 3/                                    ..        447 9    428.0    360.3   264.8   261.3   236 1
TDO/GDP                                    .       .    132 6     101.4    74 6    53 2    56 7    54.4
TDS/XGS 3/                                               2 3       39       79     12.0    16.9    17.5
Pnces
Retail once inflation (eoo)                        .    113 5     39.0     14 2     9 0     70      5 0
1/ GDP estmates excludes Kosovo
2/ Growth rate of dollar values
3/ Exports exclude workers' remittances and non-factor income.
5.    These tighter macroeconomic policies were supported by an IMF program              for SAM   approved in
December 2000, followed by a Stand By Arrangement (SBA) for US$249 million equivalent approved in
June 2001. In May 2002, the IMF Executive Board approved a three-year arrangement for SAM under
the Extended Arrangement (EA) of US$829 million equivalent spanning the period through end-March
2005. Such an arrangement was a prerequisite for implementing the 66 percent debt reduction negotiated
with the Paris Club in November 2001, which cuts SAM's debt by 51 percent upon approval of the EA,
and by a further 15 percent upon its successful completion. EA macroeconomic objectives include: (a)
achieving GDP growth of 5 percent m 2003-05; (b) reducing Serbia's inflation from 39 percent in 2001 to
5 percent in 2005; and (c) reducing Serbia and Montenegro's current account deficit (before grants) from
9.7 percent of GDP in 2001 to 7.9 percent in 2005.
4



6.   The second pillar of the Federal and Serbian govemments' strategies was initiation of structural
and institutional reforms across a wide front.4 Many of the reforms were supported by the previous SAC
and PFSAC for the benefit of Serbia and this will contnue under the proposed SOSAC. In addition,
reform of the financial sector, the establishment of transparent procedures for pnvatization of state- and
socially owned enterpnses, improvements in the tax regime and business environment, and liberalization
of trade policy, have combined to provide a basis for stimulating near-term growth and creating the basis
for a sustainable supply response. Legal and judicial reforms, as well as those in public expenditure
management, taxes, and customs are backed by an anti-corruption strategy for improving govemance and
institutions.
7.   Recent Economic Developments. Strong implementation of these programs has brought visible
progress, while laying the foundations for a sustained recovery and improved living standards. Twelve
month inflation declined from 115 percent at end 2000 to 39 percent at end 2001, and further to around 14
percent at end 2002.5 Despite a formal managed float, the nominal exchange rate of the dinar to the
DM/Euro has remained stable and unified since December 2000. Subsequent real appreciation primarily
reflects adjustment from an undervalued level. SAM's official foreign reserves grew to US$2.3 billion at
end 2002 (3.4 months of imports of goods and services), exceeding IMF program targets. Real GDP has
rebounded from a decline of about 16 percent in 1999, growing by 5.5 percent in 2001 and an estimated 4
percent in 2002.
8.   The cash-based consolidatedfiscal deficit (before official grants) increased from 1 percent of GDP
in 2000 to 5.0 percent in 2002. This is because the expenditure savings from the structural reform
program were initially outweighed by more realistic budgeting of commitments (i.e. lower accumulation
of arrears), and bringing on budget of some quasi-fiscal activities (e.g. through higher energy prices and
explicit subsidization which contained the losses of state-owned power companies). More recently, the
deficit has been impacted by a sharp increase in debt service payments and the coming on stream of some
donor-financed public investments. The increase in fiscal deficit has been managed in a manner consistent
with stabilization due to the strong mflow of donor fundmg since 2000. Despite good progress, the fiscal
position remains fragile. In 2002, consolidated general government revenues (excluding grants) were 42.5
percent of GDP, and expenditures were 47.5 percent of GDP.
9.   In SAM, foreign trade volumes have increased. Following an 18.6 percent rebound in 2000 from
the lows of the Kosovo conflict, exports of goods and services (in US Dollars) rose by a further 7.7
percent in 2001 and 18.2 percent in 2002, but remain below their real 1998 level. More rapid export
growth has been constrained by capacity and liquidity constraints and a less favorable external
environment. In 2002, the dollar value of imports of goods and services grew by a much larger 33
percent, primarily reflecting greater donor financing. While imports grew much more rapidly than
exports, the high grant-financed component of additional imports meant that the current account deficit
(mcluding foreign grants) increased from 3.9 percent of GDP in 2000 to 8.9 percent in 2002. These levels
obscure a much more negative resource balance (17 percent of GDP in 2000 and 23 percent in 2002),
which has historically been financed by private transfers from the Yugoslav diaspora, and to a lesser
extent by donor and humanitarian support.
10. Political developments: On March 14, 2002, the Belgrade Agreement was signed. This accord set
out a general framework for a union between Serbia and Montenegro to replace the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. The Agreement provides that the union of Serbia and Montenegro would have some common
4 In Serbia and Montenegro, nearly all economic policy implementation has both dejure and defacto rested with the
govermments of the member states
5 Underlying inflation, net of the effects of adjustment of admmnistered prices, is below 10 percent per year.
5



institutions, including a Presidency, Parliament, and a Council of Ministers, but would operate as two
separate economies, including using separate currencies. It further provides that after three years, either
member of the union may initiate proceedings to withdraw from the Union. During the second half of
2002, a Commission drafted a Constitutional Charter to elaborate the implementation of the Agreement.
The agreed Charter and implementing legislation were approved by the Parliaments of the member states
of Serbia and Montenegro respectively in January 2003, and by the Parliament of the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia in February 2003. Upon approval by the federal Parliament, the name of the country
officially changed from Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to Serbia and Montenegro on February 4, 2003.
The federal ratification triggered a 30 day transition period durng which SAM union level institutions
were established or reconfigured. The SAM Council of Ministers, consisting of six members (the union
President and Ministers of Defense, Foreign Economic Relations, Internal Economic Relations, Foreign
Affairs, Defense and Minorities, was constituted on March 17, 2003. Further developments will be
discussed at the time of the Board meeting. In Serbia, two rounds of presidential elections held in the fall
of 2002 failed owing to insufficient voter turnout. New presidential elections would follow the adoption
of a new Serbian constitution, which would require at least six months. The Speaker of the Serbian
Parliament is serving as Acting President of Serbia.
Medium-Term Prospects and External Financing Requirements
11.  Growth prospects. Robust growth in 2000 and 2001 was primarily driven by one-off rebounds from
earlier shocks. Under the assumption of continued decisive stabilization and reforms and substantial
support from donors and creditors, real output is expected to grow by 5 percent in 2003 (supported by a
rebound in the agricultural sector), and at a slightly lower but more sustainable annual rate of around 4
percent thereafter. Near-term growth is expected to be driven by exports, a more vibrant SME sector,
improved balance in the energy sector, and greater donor financing of investments. These factors are
expected to outweigh the contractionary near-term impact of further fiscal adjustment and the remaining
transitional recession. Medium-term growth will also be driven by greater productivity and enhanced
financial intermediation, the entry of new firms, infrastructure rehabilitation and investments in new
productive capacity.
12. Fiscal prospects. The limited domestic sources of budget financing and the reduction in external
financing to more sustainable levels will require a phased reduction in fiscal deficits. Counterpart funding
from donors will work to ensure that the overall fiscal adjustment is not excessively abrupt. Despite a
large increase in public debt service payments and the continued bringing on budget of quasi-fiscal
activities, the consolidated fiscal deficit (excluding official grants) will decrease slightly from 5.0 percent
of GDP in 2002 to 4.1 percent in 2005. Deficit reductions mi the outer years will be supported by a
leveling off of debt service payments, deeper savings resulting from reforms, and improvements in tax
administration. While cash outlays will decline by around 3.2 percentage points of GDP from 2002 to
2005, the program also achieves additional cuts in expenditure commitments and hidden quasi-fiscal
deficits, with the biggest direct impacts coming from pension, energy and banking refornns.
13. Export demand will be an important determinant of economic growth. Exports of goods and
services (in US Dollars) are expected to grow by 23 percent in 2003, before falling to a more sustamable
but still high 11 percent in 2005. In later years, export recovery could be supported by a rebound in the
economies of key partners, deepened trade integration (including through the EU Stabilization and
Association and WTO accession processes), rehabilitation of infrastructure, productivity improvements,
and higher FDI.
6



14.  The union of Serbia and Montenegro's current account deficit (including grants) is expected to
decline from 8.9 percent of GDP in 2002 to around 7.2 percent in 2005. These high levels reflect a
structural imbalance between a low savings rate, and increased investment needs following a decade of
decapitalization. Gross domestic investment as a share of GDP is expected to nse from 16.1 percent in
2002 to 18.5 percent in 2005. In parallel, and supported by public sector saving, a strengthened banking
system, and an increase in enterprise profitability, gross domestic savings will increase from -7.0 percent
of GDP in 2002 to 0.7 percent in 2005. In the early years, donor grant funding will play a significant role
in closing the gap between national savings and investment needs.
15.  Financing needs. To achieve this macroeconomic scenario and finance the transition to a market
economy, the union and Serbia will require substantial capital inflows. Even following the restructunng
of Paris Club debt and a sharp increase in dollar GDP in 2001 and 2002 (largely driven by real
appreciation from the highly depreciated level of late-2000), SAM's external debt remained a very high
75 percent of GDP at end-2002. Between 2003 and 2005, gross external financing requirements
(excluding for debt rescheduling) are estimated at about US$7.9 billion. These resources are needed to
finance US$4.7 billion of current account deficits (excluding interest and official transfers), US$1.1
billion in increased international reserves, and the remainder of US$2.1 billion to fulfill net debt service
obligations. During this period, as the fiscal deficit is increasingly brought under control, these needs will
shift from the budgetary sector to the private sector.
16.  Financing sources. These needs are projected to be met from several sources. With good progress
on reforms, foreign direct investment and other private sector finance will grow to total around US$4.3
billion during this three year period. The remaining US$3.6 billion of financing during this penod will
come from official bilateral and multilateral sources. The Bank program generally, and the proposed
adjustment operations more specifically, would represent a significant share of this financing, and can
thus play a crucial role in helping to ensure adequate financmg for the reform programs in Serbia.
17.  Assuming debt relief on appropriate terms, debt service indicators are expected to decline
significantly to still high levels. SAM's total external debt is expected to fall further to 5 percent in 2005,
driven by further debt relief and some additional real appreciation. SAM's ability to maintain a relatively
stable ratio of debt to GDP despite relatively large current account deficits, will initially be facilitated by
the high degree of average concessionality of official external financing, and later by increasing inflows
of private capital. The ratio of total debt service to exports would fluctuate in the range of 12-18 percent
in the period 2003-2005, and reach a level of around 20 percent in the medium-term.
II. THE PROPOSED SOSAC OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
18.    Bank Strategy and Background: The first Transitional Support Strategy (TSS, May 2001)
outlined a three-year IDA envelope of up to US$540 million for SAM, on a temporary and exceptional
basis, with actual lending to depend upon performance against agreed benchmarks. It was envisaged that
up to 80 percent of the program could support policy-based lending. A Transitional Support Strategy
Update (TSSU), discussed by the Board on August 8, 2002, described on-track performance, confirmed
the overall approach, and laid out the Bank's program for FY03. The World Bank Group's operations
assist the Government in achieving its overall goals of: (i) restonng macroeconomic stability and external
balance; (ii) stimulating near-term growth and creating the basis for a sustained supply response; (ii)
improving the social well-being of the most vulnerable and building human capacity; and (iv) improving
governance and building effective institutions. As of end-January 2003, eight IDA credits totaling
$214.26 million had been approved for SAM, with adjustment support comprising 80 percent of the total.
Five grants totaling US$30 million have also been approved under the Trust Fund for SAM and are under
7



implementation. A full CAS is expected to be completed late in 2003, following completion of the full
PRSP.
19.   The proposed SOSAC is part of an ongomg IDA program with the authorities of Serbia to support
social policy reforms which promote the fiscal and social sustainability of the overall reform program.
IDA support was initiated with the Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant (SPEAG), a hybrid
adjustment/investment operation which supported initial steps in labor, social protection and health
reforms. This was followed by the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), which deepened IDA
support for reforms in pensions, labor and health sectors. Performance on both operations has been
strong. The SOSAC therefore builds on a fruitful policy dialogue in the social sectors. The operation is
also supported through two complementary investment operations scheduled for FY2003: the Health
Reform Project, and the Employment Promotion Learning and Innovation Credit. Overall, the SOSAC
supports the social policy reform agenda outlined in the Government's Interim PRSP from 2002, and is
consistent with the policy framework underlying initial work on the full PRSP (see Annex 7 for summary
of PRSP process).
20. SOSAC Objectives: The overall goal of the SOSAC is to support reforms in social protection,
labor and health which contribute to programs which are more fiscally sustainable while continuing to
provide core benefits and services to the population, in particular the poorest. The two overarching
objectives are therefore to:
o reduce short and medium term fiscal pressures from social programs through a combination of
entitlement reform and efficiency improvements in the social sectors; and
o maximize the poverty alleviation impact of public spending through improved targeting and
sustained access for the poor to cash benefits and services, including health and social welfare.
21. Clearly efficiency and equity objectives will not always be synonymous, and improved access or
coverage for vulnerable groups can only come in some cases at a direct fiscal cost which has to date been
avoided through exclusion from coverage or unsustainable drain on services. In net terms, the fiscal
impact of the package of reform supported by SOSAC should be expenditure reducing, largely driven by
savings from the pension reform. Nonetheless, the aggregate picture obscures areas where the program
may increase spending in some areas (e.g. health coverage of vulnerable groups; social assistance
spending), or where the fiscal savings from reforns will not be realized in the timeframe of SOSAC
tranche disbursement, but only as part of the medium term reform program which the Government has
initiated with support under the operation (e.g. health facilities rationalization).
22. An additional objective of the operation would be improved transparency and accountability in the
management of public funds in social programs and monitoring of their impact. This objective would be
addressed by the measures on extra-budgetary fund (EBF) budgetary management, improved living
standards monitorng to assess the impact of public policy, and improvements in procurement practices in
the health sector.
23. Proposed policy agenda and rationale: The main areas proposed as the focus of the SOSAC-
supported reform agenda are consistent with the priority objectives of the Bank's TSSU, and are:
o systemic reforms to the PAYGO pension system which should make it more fiscally sustainable,
including preliminary steps in institutional reform, and also developing the legal framework for
operation of voluntary private pensions.
o reforms in reporting and collection of social insurance payroll taxes, and budget formulation and audit
of the Pension and Health Funds. These measures should improve payroll tax compliance and
8



increase transparency in budget formulation and execution in EBFs.
* reforms of non-pension cash transfers - including social assistance, child protection and
unemployment programs - in order to improve the poverty alleviation impact of the social safety net
in a manner consistent with existing fiscal and institutional capacity.
* measures to stabilize public sector health finances, including ensuring financing for vulnerable
groups, reduction of co-payment exemptions, and reforms in drugs policy. This would be
complemented by efficiency-enhancing measures to improve the mformation base of the health sector
and initial measures to develop a facilities rationalization program which would address structural
inefficiencies in health services; and
* ongoing implementation of representative household surveys in order to monitor living standards and
evaluate the social and fiscal impact of current and planned public policies.
24. The rationale for the proposed SOSAC at this point in Serbia's transition is:
*  the need for cost containment and fiscal retrenchment in Serbia is substantial, and the pension and
health sectors are major public spending areas (around 42 percent of total consolidated expenditures
in 2001). Overall efforts at deficit reduction will not be effective without serious progress m these
sectors. At the same time, the structural nature and complexity of health sector problems suggests a
staged approach to reforms is needed which may not yield substantial cost savings in the short run;
* the underlying social and child protection safety net needs further adjustment in order to respond both
to the fiscal constraints and emerging demands for benefits and services from the population;
* Serbia has moved swiftly on fundamental economic reforms, including privatization restructuring and
financial sector reform. It is critical to the sustainability of the overall reform program that the
Govemment continue to devote equal attention to reform of social sectors. Across the Bank's
program, the PFSACs focus strongly on the growth and PSD agenda. The SOSAC thus provides a
useful complement to ensure that the fiscal and poverty agendas retain equal pnonty. This policy
agenda is complemented by investment projects in health and labor which will address structural
problems and capacity issues in greater depth;
* while the proposed policy agenda is ambitious, the Serbian authorities have developed a good track
record in delivering challenging social sector reforms.6 In the social protection area in particular,
there has been effective coordination of reform efforts under the Ministry of Social Affairs. Both
factors suggest strong delivery capacity in technical and political terms; and
* the poor information base in the social sectors contributes both the continuing inefficiencies and lack
of transparency in public resource management.
25. The operation is to be disbursed in two tranches, a choice dnven by the different pace of reform in
the sectors addressed (in particular, the somewhat slower progress to date m the health sector).. A two
tranche design gives scope to proceed in a timely manner by giving more flexibility on the timetable for
delivery of the second tranche program. It is anticipated that there would be 6-9 months between
disbursement of the two tranches.
III: SOCIAL POLICY REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY SOSAC
26. The proposed policy agenda under SOSAC is summanzed in the attached draft policy matrix
(Annex 5), which was agreed with the SAM and Serbian authontles at Negotiations. It is reflected more
fully in the Letter of Sectoral Development Policy (LDP, Annex 4). Annex 6 also outlines the key
6 Examples are the one-time 3 year increase in retirement age, and passage in 2001 of a new Labor Law which is the
most liberal in SFRY countnes, both of which have been implemented without significant social reaction.
9



momtonng indicators agreed at negotiations for evaluating the medium term impact of reforms in
different areas supported under SOSAC, and for assessing the overall reform program outlined in the
LDP. The policy reform agenda supported by SOSAC is closely linked to the PRSP agenda of the SAM
and Serbian authorities. The key proposed areas for support are outlined below.
A.   Pensions: 7
27. Current Situation: Following parametric changes at the start of 2002, the Ministry of Social
Affairs (MOSA) is now considering structural reform of the pension system. Two main lines of reform
are under consideration: (i) reform of the structure of entitlements to improve equity m the system and
incentives for contribution and compliance; and (ii) diversification of the sources of pensioner income
through the introduction of voluntary, funded pensions (the so-called third pillar). In addition, various
administrative reforms are under consideration, including improvements in management and financial
controls, and measures to improve efficiency.
28. The budget of the Serbian pension system continues to pose financial problems. The core
pension/GDP ratio remams in the high range of 13 percent, while total pension system expenditures,
including military and other privileged pensions paid directly from the budget, stand at around 15 percent.
The level of arrears (as of January 2002) stood at 36 billion dinars (around US$600 million or 5 percent
of GDP) concentrated in the Workers' and the Farmers' Pension Funds.8 Although this remains a serious
fiscal and social concern, the level of arrears has declmed, most notably in the case of farmers where
delays in pension payments have been reduced from 24 to 14 months. Financing current pension
obligations and reduction of arrears has been made possible by a huge transfer from the Republican
budget of 55 billion dinars in 2002.
29. In December 2001, the Federal Parliament passed amendments to the Federal Pension Insurance
Law endorsing important parametric changes to the PAYGO system, including increasing the retirement
age from 60 to 63 for men and from 55 to 58 for women in a single step, changing indexation from 100
percent wage to 50 percent wage and 50 percent price indexation, and unifying the minimum pension.
Earlier in 2001, the pension contribution rate was reduced from 32 percent to 19.6 percent of gross wages,
while the definition of wage income was expanded to include a range of hitherto untaxed supplements and
allowances. The change was not revenue neutral, with higher transfers from the budget needed to
compensate for the overall loss in contribution revenues. Overall, the reforms in 2001 represented a
significant initial adjustment to the pension system, though left a systemic overhaul for later.
30. The Government of Serbia has been supported in these efforts with significant technical assistance
from the World Bank, both within the context of policy-based operations, including the SAC and SPEAG,
and under the technical assistance portion of the SPEAG. Pensions is therefore an area where the
Government has planned and is implementing a well thought-out strategy, and where there has been
sustained and fruitful cooperation with the Bank.
31. Priority reforms for SOSAC support: Following the 2001 amendments, a Serbian Pensions
Working Group (WG) started drafting a Republican Pension Insurance Law which would incorporate the
changes introduced in the. Federal Law and further adjust PAYGO parameters in order to create a more
fiscally and socially sustainable system. Policymakers have addressed the issues listed below in the draft
7See pensions chapter of November 2002 draft of Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR) for details.
8 The Serbian pension system has three separate funds: Workers' Fund; Farners' Fund; and Self-Emnployed Fund.
The last of these is in surplus due to a very favorable contributor/beneficiary ratio. In contrast, the Worker's Fund
runs significant arrears, and the Farmers' Fund has had long term problems with payments.
10



Republican Pension and Disability Insurance Law. These forn the basis of SOSAC conditionality in the
pension area. The menu is comprehensive and constitutes a sernous systemic reform. With technical
assistance, MOSA has carned out a range of simulations of the impact of the reform, using work history
records for 63,000 future pensioners. Discussions confirm a significant fiscal saving from the new Law
over time. MOSA has also conducted intensive and wide-ranging consultations with key stakeholders on
the draft Law, including pensioners' associations, trades unions, representatives of farmers and the self-
employed, private sector representatives, NGOs, academics and media. The SOSAC supports approval of
an acceptable Law by the Government of Serbia prior to Board and adoption by the Serbian Parliament
prior to second tranche release. The Government approved an acceptable draft Law in December 2002,
and the draft is expected to be discussed under urgent procedure in early March 2003. The key areas
which would be supported under SOSAC are:
*    Introduce a point formula which should result in a tighter link between benefits and contributions.
This would act as a fundamental systemic change which would address the core underlying
problem of overly-generous accrual rates in the exishng system.
*    Widen the calculation period for initial pensions from the current 10 best years. Widening the
calculation period also establishes a tighter link between benefits and contributions, particularly if
widened to the full career as proposed. Simulations by the WG indicate that the fiscal impact of
this Teform should be significantly higher in Serbia due to the path of wages and inflation during the
1980s and 1990s.
*    Reduce temporary disability provisions and tighten procedures for disability eligibility. In Serbia
there is a very high share of disability pensioners, almost triple the EU average. In absence of
general early retirement provisions, which were removed m 1997, further pressure on disability
may be expected as restructuring and privatization progress. It is therefore essential that the pension
system does not end up being an "provider of last resort" to cushion the impact of laid-off workers.
In order to achieve this, temporary disability provisions for existing working beneficiaries would be
tightened by reducing benefit levels and converting them to the general disability scheme.
Furthernore, the periods of eligibility for the working disabled should be shortened.
*    It can be predicted that there will be increased pressure on general disability as a consequence of
tightening eligibility for temporary eligibility. In order to prevent a rush on general disability,
eligibility conditions would be tightened, particularly in relation to initial disability assessment for
which the definition of "disabled" will be adjusted to reflect remaining general ability to work,
rather than ability to work only in prior specific occupation.
*    Retain mandatory participation offarmers. Current coverage of fartners stands at 60 percent and
does not provide adequate insurance, particularly for survivors and in case of disability.
Furthermore, contribution compliance among the farmers is low, which is partly due to failure to
deliver pensions to farmers on time. The poor state of the Farmers' Fund has lead to the belief that
farmers should be allowed to opt out of the system. However, opt-out could result in social and
fiscal problems through increased pressure on social assistance expenditures.  The Serbian
Government has endorsed provisions to retain mandatory participation in the system for farmers.
9Introduction of notional defined contribution (NDC) accounts would establish an even closer link between
contnbutions and benefits by automatically elinunating the longevity risk exhibited by prolongmg life expectancy.
However, it has other problems, and based on intensive dialogue - including a pensions policy workshop with
Bank and other experts m 2002 - the Serbian Government has opted for a Gernan points approach to reform
II



o    Ensuring gender equity in the reformed pension system:  In order to ensure that the impacts of the
reform on women are not overly adverse, the Govenmment of Serbia has also included m the draft
Law specific transitional provisions with respect to womens' qualification for a full pension which
will ensure that differences in work history due to periods out of the workforce are allowed for.
32. Reform of fund structure:  The current organization of the PAYGO system into three separate
funds is inherited from the socialist system and cannot be justified on either fiscal or efficiency grounds.
In all three cases, the state acts as the payer of last resort, and covers the deficit. It is therefore advisable
that the three existing PAYGO funds consolidate. The pace of their integration depends on the level of
arrears as well as on the harmonization of contribution rates and bases. However, the GOS is committed
to consolidation and will approve an implementation plan under the SOSAC program.
33. Funded pensions: In addition to deeper refomis of the existing PAYGO system, the Govermnent of
Serbia has been contemplatmg launching a voluntary fully funded pension system in the near future.
Indeed two voluntary funds were recently registered by the Federal MOF with an inadequate legal or
regulatory framework for operations under the Law on Insurance, raising concems of an unregulated
sector which could undermine the credibility of funded pensions and stymie future reforms. However, the
Republic has neither the financial system, the capital markets nor the supervision and regulatory
infrastructure to implement such pensions in the near-term. However, this should not act as an obstacle to
the initiation of work on the third pillar design and the accompanying legal and institutional activities, at a
mimmum to ensure that unregulated or piecemeal development of the private pension fund industry is
avoided. The SOSAC would support draftng of a Voluntary Pension Funds Law under Serbian MOFE
leadership, in order to allow for development of supervision capacity, public education, and to resolve
important issues such as tax treatment of voluntary pension contributions.
34. Medium term reform objectives: The Government intends to follow through on the above agenda
in the medium term through continued reforms of both the PAYGO and funded pension systems. For the
PAYGO system, the consolidation of the three civilian pension funds would be undertaken, in order to
promote greater efficiency of administration, and further policy revisions made to promote a clearer
separation between social insurance benefits under the pension system and social welfare benefits of
different forms. For the funded pillar, it is not the intention of GOS at this point to introduce a second
pillar, but rather to ensure that voluntary pension funds operate in a more appropriate regulatory
enviromnent. This would include resolving open questions on the appropnateness of having a unified or
separate regulators for bank and non-bank fmancial sectors, and the administrative location of the
regulator.
B.   Harmonizing payroll taxes and reformning budget manageement in extra-budgetary funds
35.  Current situation: Extra budgetary funds (EBFs) in Serbia are plagued by the inefficiencies and
lack of transparency typically found in early transition countries, including fragmented functions in
revenue collection and budgetary management. 10 Given the high spending share in consolidated
expenditures on pensions and health, improvements in transparency and efficiency of social insurance
payroll tax collection and financial management in EBFs will be critical. Over the past two years, the
Government of Serbia has been working actively to strengthen public expenditure management (PEM).
While the initial focus of PEM reforms was on the core republican budget, these efforts are now
expanding to the EBFs. The new Law on the Budget System envisages a phased extension of new PEM
principles to the EBFs, as well as a gradual harmonization of EBF budget management principles with
those of the core republican budget.
I See PEIR, November 2002, and report of R.Davis on Pension Fund admrmstration, May 2002.
12



36.  In terms of reporting and revenue collection for social insurance contributions, the current system
functions in a fragmented and uncoordinated manner, which is both mefficient and facilitates evasion.
The medium term goal is to consolidate a number of revenue reporting, enforcement and control functions
under the Serbian Public Revenue Agency (PRA), but strengthening the capacity of this office will take
time, so that separate functioning by the EBFs is likely to continue in the short to medium term. A major
initial challenge will be trying to bring greater consistency into calculation of tax rates and bases for
various categories of contributors, as the current system is overly complex and likely to be an obstacle to
future efforts to consolidate reporting, enforcement and control functions if not reformed. I I It would also
be important to ensure that all major classes of non-wage labor remuneration - including honoraria and
per diems - are included systematically in the taxable base for payroll taxation, which has not been the
case to date. Experience from neighbormg countnes suggests that a coordinated approach to such
reforms across EBFs is desirable, as they are challenging to accomplish given the vested interests
involved on both the administrative side and among classes of tax payers.
37. Priority reforms for SOSAC support: In order to complement the various policy reforms on the
expenditure side, the SOSAC would also support efforts to harmonize and simplify the current system of
calculating and reporting on social insurance contributions, including broadening the base for payroll
taxation to include additional forms of non-wage labor income (e.g. honoraria). Expenence from
neighboring countries suggests that this can have significant improvements on compliance and
transparency of the payroll tax system, and supports parallel efforts to consolidate revenue reporting,
collection and control functions. In addition, EBF financial management at different stages of the budget
cycle will be a focus for SOSAC, in order to support the Government's efforts to roll out its PEM
reforms. The reforms m this area to be supported by the SOSAC include:
38. Law on Social Insurance Contributions. The Serbian Government has appointed a working group
with agreed policy prnciples to guide its work to develop a Law on Social Insurance Contributions aimed
at simplifying the collection and reporting systems for all social insurance contributions, broadening the
contribution base to capture broader categories of non-wage labor income, and harmonizing contribution
bases within the social insurance system. This would be done in a manner that is revenue neutral, though
in practice each of these measures could have significant positive effects on compliance. The impact of a
unified approach which promotes consistent treatment in all social funds should not be underestimated.
The SOSAC supports approval of this important legislation. The impact of such a Law would be
significant, both in terms of solidifying the revenue base of all EBFs and in terms of simplifying reporting
on payroll taxes for employers. In addition, the Serbian MOFE will approve a Ministerial decision to
require submission of all reports on social contributions by employers to the PRA. While this will require
a phased implementation, it would act as an important preliminary measure for planned consolidation of
payroll taxes bases and other measures to be introduced under the new Law on Social Insurance
Contributions.
39. Budget fornulation and audit in the PIOs and health fund: The SOSAC supports efforts to
extend the new PEM principles to the EBFs by agreeing on monitorable benchmarks which would
confirm a satisfactory rate of progress m implementmg such reforms. These are m two areas:
*    Budget formulation. Reforms to better integrate the social funds into the overall budget process
include requiring the social funds to adopt a new GFS-compliant chart of accounts, amendments to
For example, the base for payroll tax calculation vanes between different EBFs, between sectors of workers
(employed; farmers; self-employed), and within sectors (e.g. multiple bases within the employed sector
depending on worker education level).
13



the budget calendar of the social funds to comply with the Law on the Budget System (LBS), and
measures to establish a clear link between budget formulation in the social funds and the three-year
macro-fiscal framework being formulated by the MOFE.
O    Audit and control. Important measures to strengthen these procedures were taken in 2001.
Completion and submission to parliament of an inspection report on all major Republic-level
government agencies and social funds was one of the key reforms supported by the previous SAC.
The Government recognized that these one-off inspections would over time need to be replaced by
a more institutionalized process of audit and control throughout the budget system. The SOSAC
includes monitorable benchmarks which would confirm a satisfactory rate of progress in expanding
and institutionalizing audit oversight of the EBFs.
40. Medium term reform objectives: The medium term objectives in this field are to contmue budget
management reform in the EBFs at all stages of the budget cycle, in order to ensure that EBF budgeting
practices are fully compliant with the new Law on Budget Systems. Thus will have several elements,
including strengthening capacity in the EBFs to prepare budget requests within well-developed medium
term expenditure framework, other improvements in budget formulation, and more timely and consistent
reporting on budget execution during the budget year, including in the case of the HIF for state-owned
health facilities. The progressive strengthening of budget management in the EBFs will also require
rolling out the new PEM practices to regional and lower level branches of the funds in time. Finally,
there will need to be more thorough institutional evaluations of each EBF in light of moves to
consolidation of payroll tax reporting, enforcement and control into the PRA. This is likely to result in
redundancy in the EBFs in sections currently handling these functions for specific payroll taxes, and a
fuller institutional assessment will determine the extent to which the EBFs will continue to need existing
staff for alternative functions.
C.   HlIealth Sector 12
41.  Current situation: Serbia's health care system is not fiscally sustainable. Efforts to stabilize it are
needed both on the revenue and expenditure sides, but also need to focus on efficiency improvements to
ensure continued access to and quality of services. Public spending on health in Serbia was estimated m
2001 at close to 7 percent of GDP. Once estimates of private expenditure are added, total health
expenditure would range between 9 and 11 percent of GDP - among the highest in the region. Financing
is done via a combination of public finance and pnvate contributions. The comerstone of the public
financing system is the Health Insurance Fund (HIF), which receives earmarked payroll contributions
from employees, employers, self-employed, farmers and the Pension and Employment Funds. 13
Transfers from the member states and Union Governments have been intended for financing investments,
and health care provision for vulnerable groups and refugees. However, in recent years these transfers
have been very limited, so that in 2000 nearly 99 percent of HIF finding came from contnbutions. Private
expenditure on health is pervasive and covers a combination of nominal co-payments, services purchased
on the limited private market and from military health facilities, and extensive under-the-table payments.
42.  While there are a range of problems in the sector, some key areas in need of attention include:
2 See also health chapter of PEIR and PCD for proposed Health Investment Project.
13 There is also a separate Union level Health Insurance Fund for Military Personnel and their farmlies (FMHIF).
14



* Drugs policy and practice is a serious cause for concern, in part as a significant cost in the public
system and for individuals, but also for reasons of transparency and suspected collusive practices
within the sector. The system for approval of drugs has been effectively frozen in recent years, with
no foreign drugs licensed for the local market. The entire system of drug regulation does not comply
with good EU and intemational practice, and will undermine both export and inward foreign
investment opportunities for domestic drug firms. 14
* Financing of health coverage for uninsured groups has been highly problematic in recent years, in
particular for the refugee population of around 450,000, placmg major strains on facilities which
continue to provide care.
*  While co-payments have been introduced in state-owned health facilities, the scale of exemptions
remains very high (around 70 percent of the population), making them ineffective in both revenue and
possible demand regulation terms. The level of co-payments is also very low. Presently, the HIF
estimates that the net revenue impact of co-payments is less than expected after administrative costs
are allowed for.
* Basic information on contributors, system beneficiaries and expenditures needs to be strengthened .
The quality of existmg data limits the capacity of policy makers and practitioners to monitor the
efficiency and effectiveness of the system.
* There appear to be large structural inefficiencies. In particular, overcapacity in the hospital sector
appears as a likely cause of high spending: both hospital occupancy rate and the average caseload per
physician are low by intemational comparison, although the official number of hospital beds per
population is lower than in many transition and high-income economies. By way of contrast,
overstaffing of primary care facilities appears to reflect underutilization of the service more than a
high number of doctors. Another cause of concern is the very high number of non-clinical staff.
43.  The Bank has been closely involved in support to the Serbian authontles since its re-engagement
with SAM and Serbia. The cooperation has included analytical work under the PEIR and initial CEM,
and more recently support under the SAC and the investment portion of the SPEAG. The benefits of
sustained engagement now appear to be being realized with the recent acceleration of Government efforts.
The reform program supported under SOSAC therefore represents a significant step forward at the policy
level by the Govemment of Serbia in coming to terms with the challenges in the sector. This is in turn
closely linked to the reformn implementation program of the Ministry of Health, which is supported under
the proposed Health Project.
44. Priority reforms to be supported under SOSAC: The problems of the health sector are complex
and will take considerable time to address. The agenda proposed under SOSAC addresses a number of
areas which are important and where progress in the near-medium term is considered feasible. Many of
the more long-term structural problems of the sector can be addressed in the proposed health sector
investment project, and also under future fiscally-focused SACs. Until these more senous structural
issues are addressed, the scope for substantial expenditure reduction in the sector is limited. However,
there is scope for improvements which will assist in stabilizing the resource base of the sector, improve
quality and access, and support initial steps towards addressing structural problems. The major objectives
of SOSAC support to the sector are: (i) improved transparency in resource management, ranging from
revenue side improvements under the Social Insurance Contributions Law (see above), through improved
procurement and licensing practices for drugs and other medical supplies, to mitial steps towards better
14 See PEIR procurement case study on pharmaceutical industry.
15



health information systems; (ii) stabilizing the resource base of the sector, through measures to improve
payroll tax compliance, regularize budget transfers to the sector, and moving towards a more rational co-
payment system; and (iii) ensuring continued affordable health coverage of vulnerable groups through
support for budget financing of their coverage, and a co-payment system which continues to protect those
in need. The main areas for support to GOS reforms under the SOSAC program would be:
o  Improvements in drugs policy and practice, including procurement, registration and licensing. This
requires passage of a new Law on Medicinal Products, as well as completion of implementing
instructions on the recent Public Procurement Law. Passage of an acceptable Law is a key element of
the health agenda supported by SOSAC. The draft Law approved by the Government of Serbia in
December 2002 is compliant with EU practice, establishes an independent Drugs Agency, establishes
an effective licensing mechanism for drugs, and promotes adequate quality control and inspection.
o  Addressing health financing for vulnerable groups and pensioners: The following steps have
recently been taken in preparation of the 2003 budget which present a significant improvement m the
transparency and adequacy of health financing for vulnerable groups and pensioners: (i) clear
identification of vulnerable groups for whom budget transfers to the HIF are required, with a clear
definition and estimate of the required contribution; (ii) inclusion of an adequate amount in the 2003
budget for health coverage for vulnerable groups and pensioners. An adequate budgetary allocation
was included in the approved 2003 budget, and execution of the budgeted transfers in a full and
timely manner would also be supported under the SOSAC program.
o  Reducing exemptions on co-payments: Presently an estimated 70 percent of the population are
exempted from the small co-payments levied for health services. This needs to be reduced, while still
ensuring that the vulnerable and those most dependent on the system are not impoverished. The
MOH and HIF have established a commission to reduce exemptions on co-payments, and a
Government of Serbia approval of a HIF/MOH decree which significantly reduces co-payment
exemptions is expected in early 2003. This is a positive development, and one strongly supported by
the MOFE. At the same time, one should not expect a substantial revenue impact from the reforms.
The more significant impact is likely to be on demand for unnecessary use of the system.
o  Consolidating data on health sector payables and receivables. With respect to arrears in the health
system - both receivables and payables of the HIF and state-owned health care institutions - previous
efforts at a "snapshot" of arrears have proven to be ineffective in getting a proper overview of the
situation and trends. While there has been a gradual reduction in arrears at the HIF, much less is
known about the position m state-owned facilities. In order to address this shortcoming in a more
systematic manner, the SOSAC would support production of a consolidated statement of accumulated
debts to and from the H1F and State-owned health facilities, and conduct at least an annual update of
the statement. This is a practice which was used in SFRY but was discontinued in the 1990s as
transparency deteriorated.
O  Monitoring performance and quality in the health system: While there have been several efforts to
produce better information on key elements of the system such as prescription patterns, in the longer
run, a new comprehensive health information system (HIS) will be needed. The Health Information
System Commission has initiated work on development of the master plan for health information. The
SOSAC program would support approval of an implementation plan for design and roll-out of the
new HIS. Staged implementation would be a medium term commnitment under the program, with TA
and financial support under the proposed IDA-financed Health project.
o  Initial steps towards preparation of a health facilities master plan which would be a basis for future
16



restructuring of health services in Serbia. This is a key measure in reducing the current inefficiencies
in the hospital-network, which are a major cost drnver in the system. A good Master Plan will require
careful preliminary work and should be based on a clear understanding of what are the responsibilities
of state-owned health facilities and providers at different levels of the system. This will require
Health Planning Standards and Guidelines in Serbia for the health care services to be covered under
the plan. These should be based on the health sector vision, strategy and policy which the MOH is
presently developing. The Standards and Guidelines should be prepared through consensus building
among the key stakeholders, and their approval would be supported under the SOSAC, with further
implementation of the Master Plan supported under the Health Project.
45. Medium term reform objectives. As noted, there remains a large structural reform agenda in the
health sector to which the Government has committed itself in the medium to long term. The major
elements of this would be: (i) promotion of a more rational network of state-owned health facilities which
would provide higher quality public services by more efficient use of resources. This would be dnven by
reductions m excess hospital facilities and inputs; (ii) assurance of an adequate supply of safe quality
drugs into Serbia in an open pharmaceuticals market, and ensuring that procurement and licensing
practices in the sector become more independent and transparent to move towards more comparable
prices for non-patented drugs and medical supplies; (iii) ongoing reform of the health financmg system to
promote greater emphasis on output-onented, incentive-based methods of paying providers, and impetus
to give greater autonomy to healthcare institutions. This should also increase the geographic equity in
health care financing. Achievmg this in a manner that is consistent with broader efforts in budgetary
management reform will be challenging; and (iv) implementation m a staged manner of the agreed health
information systems and master plan.
46.  These reforms will need to be pursued with a clear vision of on-gomg coverage for vulnerable
groups, which will require continued transfers from the budget in future years for non-earners, unisured
and vulnerable groups, and a co-payment system which protects high users of health care and helps to
control informal payments. In refining the co-payment system, the Government of Serbia plans to
develop a reference pricing system which should ensure availability of a low or no cost option for drugs
on the essential list.
D.   Labor and Employment
47.  Current situation: The unemployment rate in Serbia of 12 percent is around average by transition
economies standards. 15 However, the labor market is stagnant, with very limited labor and job flows.
Unlike many transition economies, the majority of unemployed are without previous labor market
experience (mainly youth), rather than workers who lost their job. This indicates a ngid labor market,
with barriers to entry. Hinng is limited, as attested by the low share of workers with short length of
service in total formal sector employment. As a consequence, escaping unemployment and finding a new
job is very difficult. 16 There is a large discrepancy between the LFS and registration data on
unemployment. Accordmg to administrative data, the number of unemployed is about twice as high as
LFS data (close to 800,000). However, LFS data are more likely to approximate to reality due to varnous
incentives to register - mainly the availability of pension and-health insurance. As a result, a large
fraction of the registered unemployed are not genuinely unemployed, i.e. they either have a job in the
informal sector, or are not actively looking and available for work. Moreover, the Labor Market Bureau
15 Based on the most recent (October 2001) wave of the Labor Force Survey
16It is anticipated that a number of these problems will be eased by the new Labor Law approved in December 2001
and the impact of the pnvatization program.
17



(LMB) - the public agency responsible for administering both passive and active labor measures - is
overburdened with high flow of registered unemployed. The LMB has one of the heaviest work loads of a
public employment service anywhere in the region. Although the LMB provides a wide array of ALMPs,
in 2002, it is estimated to have spent only 4-5 percent of its overall budget on active programs.
48.  Existing legislation on unemployment benefits and programs for the unemployed is ill-suited to the
emerging challenges of a restructuring economy. The major problems in existing legislation include: (i)
level and duration of unemployment benefits, which on both counts are very high by regional standards.
If not addressed, this would create not only a large contingent fiscal liability, but also continue
disincentives to return to work for the unemployed; (ii) the range and relative priority of different active
programs. The current legislation gives limited guidance for implementation of cost-effective active labor
programs, and does not include some active mterventions which have proved to be more cost effective in
other countries; and (iii) other measures to increase incentives for the registered unemployed to return to
work.
49. Social Program: In addition to legislation on the rights of the unemployed, the Government of
Serbia approved a Social Program for Employees Dismissed during Restructuring and Privatization in
March 2002. The 2003 budget has allocated around 7.5 billion dinars for payments under the Program.
There are several concerns about the impacts of the SP, including: its possible open-ended nature; its
provision of new relatively generous payments whlle better targeted programs area paying low benefits
and/or have accumulated arrears; and the weakness of links between eligibility of a company to enter the
SP and the taking of steps which place the company on an irreversible path towards restructuring which
goes beyond near-term labor shedding.
50.  The Bank has had close cooperation with the Serbian authorities in the labor area, both under the
social sectors dialogue and operations, and within the private sector development lending and analytical
agenda. Following analytical work in the first CEM, a new Labor Law was supported initially under the
SPEAG in the development phase and then the SAC at passage. There is also technical assistance
cooperation with the Ministry of Labor and Employment under the investment portion of the SPEAG and
more recently during preparation of the proposed Labor LIL, which is expected to be approved in early
2003. On the private sector side, there has been sustained engagement on the social impact of enterpnse
restructuring, and significant work under the PFSACI and proposed PFSACII on supporting a more
conducive business environment, which should stimulate labor demand.
51. Priority reforms to be supported under SOSAC: While labor issues will not have the central
focus that they received in the SPEAG and SAC, there remain important outstanding issues, apart from
those already being addressed in the PFSACII. Given the likely acceleration in restructuring, two issues
in particular deserve attention. The first is reform of the Law on Employment and Insurance in Case of
Unemployment. The second is the Social Program. Both are addressed under the SOSAC agenda.
52. The SOSAC supports a new Law on Employment and Insurance in Case of Unemployment, which
is needed as Serbia enters an intensive period of pnvatization and enterprise restructuring, both m terms
of controlling fiscal impact and in terms of promoting public interventions which are more effective in
facilitating return to work for those laid off. The Government of Serbia approved in January 2003 a draft
Law which contains several key elements: (i) revised unemployment benefit entitlements with respect to
duration and level, bringing Serbia more into line with regional comparators and reducing the contingent
fiscal liability from future lay-offs; (ii) inclusion of more cost effective active labor market interventions,
such as job search skill training programs, job clubs, assistance in self employment, and job fairs; (iii) a
more appropriate definition of unemployment, in order to help bnng "official" unemployment levels more
into line with survey-based data; (iv) revised rules on obligations of the unemployed to take work or
18



participate in employment programs offered by the Labor Market Bureau (LMB) which reduce the ability
of registered unemployed people to refuse work of which they are capable; and (v) for the first time,
allows private employment agencies in the delivery of services. This can lead to more diverse, innovative
and cost-efficient services and to programs that are more closely oriented to labor demand. The SOSAC
supports enactment of the draft law, with Serbian parliamentary consideration mitiated in February 2003.
The Association is also supporting capacity strengthening in the LMB under the proposed Labor LIC
which is assisting in the design, piloting and evaluating of new and more cost effective labor market
intervention and mnovative active programs.
53.  As the SOSAC supports Serbia's reforms in the area of social protection while providing financial
support to the budget, the Association has an obvious interest in ensurng that such a substantial Social
Program is designed to contribute to fiscal sustainability and improved performance of the social
protection system. It is therefore important to ensure that fiscal costs are kept under control in the short
run and reduced and eventually discontinued in the medium term. At the same time, the Program is
clearly an important indication of the Government's commitment to nutigating the social impact of
restructuring. In the short run, the Government plans to make funding under the SP more explicitly linked
to specific benchmarks m the enterprise restructurng and tender prnvatization process, such as adoption
by the Privatization Agency of the enterprise restructuring and privatization programs, in order to tie use
of budgetary resources to monitorable benchmarks of restructuring and ownership transfer.
54. Medium term reform objectives: The reforms of the Law on Employment should in the medium
term contribute to a LMB which is a more effective tool for assisting the unemployed to reenter the
workforce. This will likely result in a somewhat higher share of LMB spending on active labor programs,
though payment of cash benefits will remain its priority spending item for the foreseeable future. The
realignment of both cash and services from the LMB will position it to cope better with the expected
influx of unemployed as enterprise restructunng progresses. With respect to the Social Program, it will
be important to ensure that it is clearly time bound, and does not stretch out to the point where it becomes
institutionalized and risks undermning the more affordable provisions of the Labor Law with respect to
dismissal of workers. It is also likely that benefits under the Social Program will need to be brought more
closely into line with both fiscal capacity and the general labor market if the Social Program is not to be
counter-productive in attracting domestic and foreign investors.
E.   Social and Child Protection 17
55.  Current situation: Overall spending on social and child protection in Serbia has been low as a
share of GDP m recent years, at 1.2 percent of GDP in 2001. The relative allocations between social
assistance and child protection have also been biased towards child protection, with social assistance
spending amongst the lowest in the region as a share of GDP. In addition, spending has not been well
targeted due to overly localized eligibility thresholds and benefit levels which have restricted access to
benefit amongst households in poor areas. Although social and chlld protection do not currently
constitute sources of fiscal pressure, there is considerable scope for improvements in targeting and
administration which can increase the poverty reduction impact of a given level of spending. Such
adjustments are also important in light of the likely increased burden on the social welfare system in
coming years, due to various factors such as citizenship for a large number of refugees and possible new
demands on the system from emerging open unemployment.
17For detailed analysis of the incidence of different social welfare cash benefits, see Milanovic "Incidence of Social
Transfers m Serbia", background paper for Poverty Assessment and SOSAC (mimeo, 2003).
19



56.  Total social assistance expenditures in Serbia, including cash benefits and services, amounted to
0.3 percent of GDP in 2001. This is significantly lower than other countries in the region.'8 The main
social assistance benefit is the so-called MOP, which is provided to around 40,000 households, and
accounted for approximately 0.1 percent of GDP in 2001. MOP is aimed at individuals and families
whose income is lower than the guaranteed "social security level." This threshold is fixed by law at a
percentage of the average municipal wage, adjusted for the number of family members. Benefit amounts
are indexed to wages and eligibility critena also include an assets test.
57.  Decentralized eligibility thresholds for social assistance have contnbuted to low coverage rates in
poorer areas. MOSA has attempted to address this through temporary measures which provide additional
benefits for households which fall between the level of the republican and municipal average wages. In
2001, MOSA piloted a supplementary benefit (MOP2) which provided benefits based upon the threshold
of the average republic wage. Since these benefits were first introduced, MOP and MOP2 benefits have
been paid on a regular monthly basis. While the pilot system appears to affordable - adding 26 percent to
base MOP spending - and makes significant improvements m the equity of the social safety net, it has not
yet been properly incorporated into the mainstream social welfare system.
58.  Child Protection:  A new Law on Financial Support to Families with Children improves the
targeting of the child protection system, allowing adequate and sustainable benefits for poor households
with children. The Law aims to strengthen support to children through promotmg equal benefit access
throughout Serbia, tightening targeting of child allowances, maintaining the real value of support to poor
families, and reducing provision of some duplicative benefits. It is expected to reduce the number of
beneficiaries, and the total amount of expenditures from around 0.7 percent of GDP to around 0.6 percent
of GDP by mid-2003. For child allowances, the main changes incorporated in the Law include:
o    Adoption of a uniform eligibility threshold for child allowances across the Republic, significantly
increasing the equity of benefit incidence;
o    Strengthening of non-income means-testing to address asset ownership by applicant households
more effectively;
o    Indexing benefit levels to the cost of living in order to preserve their real value and break
inappropriate linkages to wages;
o    Inclusion of a provision allowing households to apply for assistance as soon as required, without
having to wait for a specific date in the year; and
o    Introduction of means-testing (including income and assets) for child allowances for families with 3
or more children, equalizing them with smaller families.
59.  Overall, social welfare has been an area of fruitful engagement between the Government of Serbia
and the Bank, initially through analytical work under the CEM, then under both policy support and
investment technical assistance under the SPEAG. The analytical and policy dialogue has been further
informed by joint analysis of the recent LSMS-style poverty survey, which is a key source of information
on household living standards and cash benefit incidence. This work is also informing the Government's
PRSP preparations.
60. Priority reforms to be supported under SOSAC: The SOSAC would support reforms in the areas
outlined above. With respect to social assistance, it would support MOSA's plans for reforms which will
improve its poverty alleviation impact. Reforms of social assistance will proceed in two phases: first,
18 Social assistance expenditures in Bulgaria in 2000 were 1.1% of GDP; 0.9% in the Czech Republic in 1997; 0.4%
m Poland in 1999; and 1.2-1.4% in Slovakia m 1999.
20



initial changes to adjustments in benefit eligibility cnteria and indexation '9; and second, further reforms
to the structure of the system will follow, with a particular focus on social services reform but also
possibly including further adjustments of cash benefits.
61. The initial cash benefit reforms approved by the Government of Serbia in December 2002 include
the introduction of a republic-wide eligibility threshold and indexing of benefit levels to the cost of living.
It is expected that the number of welfare beneficiaries will increase with these changes to around 53,000
households. In addition, the amendments increase benefits for around 20,000 households with seriously
disabled members in need of regular care in the home, providing increased protection for one of society's
most vulnerable groups. The reforms supported by SOSAC seek to strike a balance between the need for
a benefit of last resort providing some income support for those in most need, and the need to ensure that
beneficiary numbers remain manageable. In this process, it will be important to ensure that revised
benefit levels and targeting criteria can accommodate future increases in beneficiary numbers, and have
sensible relationships to both wages and other benefits to maintain work incentives.
62. The Government has also recently approved emergency measures to mitigate the negative impact
on the very poor and vulnerable households of rising utility prices. This includes new cash benefits
during the heating season to around 46,000 households with seriously disabled members and selected
poor households with low energy use, as well as support to vulnerable households to cover electricity
arrears. The new program is coordinated with social welfare beneficiary identification at municipal level
to avoid duplication of administration. In addition, in December 2002, the Government of Serbia made
one-time benefits available to around 25,000 households of intemally displaced people.
63. Recently legislated improvements in the child protection system would be reflected m the SOSAC
program as a prior action m the Govermment's efforts to ensure effective poverty alleviation in transfer
programs while respecting fiscal constraints.
64.  Medium term reform objectives. Overall, the social welfare sector is one where spendmg would
be expected to increase somewhat as transition progresses, though the scope for increased spending will
be constrained by current "temporary" spending items such as the Social Program. As noted, the
Govemment of Serbia is committed under the SOSAC program to medium term reforms in the social
welfare sector of a more structural nature, m addition to continuing to assess whether the expenditure
balance between social assistance and child protection requires further adjustmnent. 20 These would
include: (i) evaluating the balance between social services and cash benefits in the current network; (ii)
promoting alternative' forms of care for those presently in institutions; (iii) reassessing roles and
responsibilities of both public and non-governmental actors in the social welfare sector, with a view to
minimizing duplicative services and delivery channels; and (iv) continuing legislative and other efforts to
provide a clear and sustainable framework for the operations of NGOs, m particular promoting their
partnerships in social service provision with the public sector though the Social Innovation Fund and
other efforts. In addition, the Government plans to submit to the Parliament in 2003 a new Family Law,
which should facilitate adoption and promote its broader agenda of deinstitutionalization.
9 The Bank is closely involved in thus work, including technical support under the Poverty Assessment and PRSP
and financial support under a Bank-administered Dutch grant
20 The analysis m Milanovic (op.cit) indicates that targeting of social assistance is considerably better than for child
benefits, which is consistent with findigs from Croatia.
21



F.   Poverty Monitoring and Capacity Building
65.  Current situation:   The Federal Statistical Office has conducted a quarterly nation-wide
household budget survey (HBS)since 1984. The sample of the survey is based on the latest census (1991)
and is therefore outdated. The labor market information collected from households during the survey is
very limited, and the survey instrument unsuitable for incidence analysis of cash transfer programs.
Even the limuted data collected are not used to their full potential. Access to data has traditionally been
limited, and the link between policies and data analysis rather weak.
66.  Priority reforms to be supported under SOSAC: Improved living standards moitorng is cntical
to improved social policy development and assessment of program impact. The SOSAC supports ongoing
efforts of the Government in this regard, and medium term efforts to institutionalize better poverty
monitonng. It would also be important to ensure that there is more targeted evaluation of reforms
supported by the Credit in terms of their social/poverty impact. This would also be included as part of
SOSAC implementation.
67. The Serbian Government has conducted its own household survey (the Poverty Survey) which
provides an updated poverty profile for Serbia and is based on a sample which is representative for the
Republic. The Poverty Survey is the key analytical tool for the PRSP. The questionnaire was designed to
allow for the analysis of specific social protection programs, as well as of other policy areas, including
education, health and employment. Analysis of the first round of the survey was conducted in fall 2002
with technical support from the Bank. This is to be followed by another round of the survey in 2003
which would provide inforrnation on the dynamics of poverty and allow for more detailed assessment of
new targeting criteria in child protection. In tandem with the poverty survey, the Serbian Government is
also planning to update its Household Budget Survey to increase its effectiveness as a poverty monitoring
tool. This would be an important process in institutionalizing the methodological and other improvements
which have been introduced on a one-time basis in the Poverty Survey. The SOSAC supports both the
short term efforts under the Poverty Survey and commitments from the Govemment on institutionalmng
improvements m livmg standards monitoring over time. Both the survey work and institutionalization of
improved living standards monitoring are closely linked to the further design and implementation of the
PRSP agenda.
68. Monitoring the social policy reform agenda. The Poverty Survey rounds noted above are the
pnmary initial tool for establishing a quantitative baseline for evaluating the social impact of reforms
supported by the SOSAC. The medium term comnuitment to continue such surveys will enable
monitonng of the impact of reforms. The analysis from the Poverty Survey is helping to identify
vulnerable groups and to assess the impact and effectiveness of the main social protection programs.
69.  The ongoing households budget surveys are being complemented with a dedicated social
assessment to monitor the implementation and impact of the social policy reforms supported by the
SOSAC. This is being camed out by local social researchers in Serbia with inputs to design from the
Bank team and local counterparts. The overall assessment combines quantitative and qualitative
instruments. The approach is to run a baseline quantitative survey of public opinion. A follow up survey
will be run 6-9 months after the major reforms supported under the operation have been initiated,
providing a useful initial understanding of the impact and public perceptions of reforms.
70.  The quantitative survey is being accompanied by a set of qualitative focus groups of population
groups most affected by the reforms (e.g. pensioners, families with children, unemployed), as well as key
informants (e g. government officials, NGO, academia), to gauge the impact of policy changes on specific
groups and to provide more context for the quantitative results. This is being camed out in two phases,
22



with the first phase of work completed in early 2003 and already being used by line mmnistries in policy
evaluation and development.  The qualitative and quantitative work has been designed to reflect
geographic diversity across Serbia.
IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   Rationale for IDA Involvement
71. The rationale for the SOSAC program at this point in Serbia's transition is outlined in paragraph
24. The program is also consistent with the TSSU objectives (see paragraph 18 for details). In terms of
IDA's comparative advantage, it has been the lead agency to date on various elements of social policy
reform, including pensions, social welfare, health, and employment policy. The GOS has therefore been
keen to deepen the policy dialogue initiated in the first SAC, SPEAG, and the PEIR, and to link the policy
dialogue within these channels with investment Credits in the health, labor and budgetary management
areas. IDA's combination of policy and investment lending in the social sectors places it in a rare
position of being able to support longer run implementation of the policy reforms supported under
adjustment operations.
B.   Benefits and Risks
72. Benefits: The main benefits of the operation would be:
* Support for reforms which should contribute significantly to expenditure control in the short
term and reduction in the medium term. This applies most directly to pension reforms, though
other measures in unemployment programs and social welfare should also act to control
contingent fiscal liabilities created by likely future increases in client loads.
*   Efficiency improvements in a number of programs, including the health sector, active labor
programs for the unemployed, and administrative arrangements in social protection, which
should contribute to better cost-effectiveness in public spending.
*   Improved poverty alleviation from public spending, through a more equitable basic social
safety net which better targets the poor wherever resident in Serbia. Some of the health sector
measures should also support continued access to services for the poor.
*   Greater transparency in public resource management and planning, particularly in extra-
budgetary funds; and
*   Better information on living standards, which would provide a firm basis for evaluatmg the
impact of public policy and developing future reforms with a clearer sense of their likely
welfare impact across different population groups.
73.  Risks:    The main nsks of the operation would be:
*     Political uncertaLnty, exacerbated by two factors: first, while the constitutional charter and
implementing legislation has now been adopted in both member states and at the union level,
the implementation challenges facing the new union and its constituent member states will be
significant. Second, while the Serbian Government has shown strong leadership and rapid
reaffirmation of its policy commitment in the aftermath of the recent assassination of the
Serbian Prime Minister, this event, combined with the failure of two rounds of presidential
2 ISee Serbia: Social Assessment for SOSAC, draft report, ARGUMENT Research and Analytical Center, Belgrade,
2003.
23



elections in Serbia in the fall of 2002 owing to msufficient voter turnout could further
challenge the Government's ability to sustain the SOSAC program;
o     The ambitious agenda raises risks of capacity to deliver and coordinate reformns across social
sectors. The mitigating factor is the demonstrated capacity to date to deliver on challenging
reforms, particularly in labor and social protection. The coordinating role of the Ministry of
Social Affairs is expected to be important in continued progress. This risk remains probably
most significant in the health sector, where efforts to coordinate the MOH and Health
Insurance Fund have been promising but are in the initial stages;
o     external shocks which could strain Serbia's ability to maintain a sustainable macroeconomic
framework, including slower than anticipated economic growth in the economies of key
trading partners, further delays in reaching a debt rescheduling agreements with the London
Club, and lower than expected foreign investment.
74.  In terms of the substantive reforms in each area, the following risks can be anticipated:
o     challenges in ensuring acceptance of the systemic pension reform by key stakeholders. This is
being mitigated in part through TA under the SPEAG on public information, and also through
intensive consultations by Governments with affected groups during development of the new
legislation. In addition, the Government was successful in implementing the most significant
age increase in ECA in 2001;
o    for health sector reforms, there may be resistance to greater efficiency and transparency in the
sector, considering that reforms are unavoidable but an often difficult and painful process. In
addition, the proposed expansion of social groups obliged to make co-payments will be
unpopular, though it is hoped that the current low level of fees will mitigate this risk
somewhat. Finally, implementation of the SOSAC-supported and broader health reform
agenda requires more effective coordination between the MOH and HIF. Coordination has
improved in the second half of 2002, and both the SOSAC and health investment project
would continue to support further improvement.
C.   Coordination with the IMF and other donors
75. The achievement of SOSAC objectives will be supported by IDA's close collaboration with the
IMF and donors. The Government's overall reform program has been designed within a macroeconomic
framework consistent with SAM's Extended Arrangement (EA) with the IMF. The SOSAC is consistent
with this macroeconomic framework. The IMF has provided important technical assistance in public
expenditure management, while IDA input was important in developing the structural elements of the
SBA. The PRSP agenda also acts as another channel of collaboration. Further details on relations with
the IMF are contained in Annex 10 prepared by the Fund country team. Donors are providing financial
and technical assistance in all areas supported by the SOSAC. Such support is an unusually important
complement to the IDA program in light of the high share of adjustment lending in the portfolio. Key
donors include the EU (in particular in the health sector with technical and investment support on drugs
and medical equipment), DFID-UK (which is involved in the social protection sector, and co-financing
project interventions with IDA for labor), SIDA (which has supported social welfare interventions),
CIDA Canada (which provides TA support for social protection, labor and health sectors), the
Netherlands (which has provided support for both social welfare interventions and carrying out the
Poverty Survey and follow up living standards monitoring), UNDP (which has assisted with TA on social
protection and capacity building in key ministnes), UNICEF (with interventions in a range of child and
family initiatives and ongoing policy support), and WHO (health sector).
24



D.    Board Conditions, Tranche Triggers and Supervision
76. The overall program to be supported by the proposed credit is outlined in the Letter of Sectoral
Development Policy (Annex 4), and the performance benchmarks are set out in the Policy Reform Matnx
(Annex 5). In particular, the LSDP lays out commitments for a medium term reform implementation
agenda which it is anticipated would be supported by a follow-up adjustment operation. The specific
conditions to be met pnor to Board Presentation are:
1.    Conditions met prior to Board Presentation:
* Government of Serbia to approve a new Pension and Disability Insurance Law satisfactory to IDA. 22
* Enactment by Serbia of new Law on Financial Support to Families with Children satisfactory to IDA.
23
*   The Serbian Govemment has appointed a working group with agreed policy principles satisfactory to
IDA to guide its work to develop a Law on Social Insurance Contributions. 24
* Serbian MOFE, HIF and MOH to approve list and numbers of vulnerable groups eligible for
financing of health contributions from budget, define per capita contribution and allocate funds in
2003 budget in manner satisfactory to IDA.
*   Draft Law on Medicinal Products to be approved by Goverrnent of Serbia which is satisfactory to
IDA. 25
* Submission to the Serbian Parliament of Law on Employment and Insurance in Case of
Unemployment satisfactory to IDA. 26
2.    Conditions to be met prior to release of second tranche:
* Enactment by Serbia of a new Pension and Disability Insurance Law satisfactory to IDA. 27
22 A satisfactory Law would include: (i) lengthening work history to entire career used to calculate pensions in the
new point formula (ii) retaining mandatory participation of farmers; (iii) introduction of a new pension formula
based on individual points; (iv) reducing temporary disability benefits, and tightening eliglbility for general
disability through new definiton of disability; and (v) incorporating prior reforms in Federal pensions legislation,
including normal pension age increase and mixed pnce/wage indexation.
23
Satisfactory would include: (i) eligibility thresholds indexed to cost of living rather than wages; (ii) additional
asset.tests introduced in means-testing for benefits; (iii) option to apply for assistance as soon as required without
having to wait for a specific date in the year; (iv) additional rights for especially vulnerable groups (e.g. children
without parental care and children with development problems); and (v) indexing benefits to cost of living.
24 Satisfactory principles would provide a unified approach to pension, health and unemployment payroll
contributions, and include: (i) harmonizing contribution bases for social contributions; (ii) expaniding the
contribution base to wider categories of non-wage labor income; and (iii) expressing minimum contnbution bases
relative to the average wage.
25 Satisfactory law would mclude (i) compliant with EU standards; (ii) established independent Drugs Agency with
identified financing sources; (iii) licensing mechanism for drug distnbution; and (iv) adequate quality control and
inspection procedures.
26 Satisfactory law would include: (i) revised unemployment benefit entitlements with respect to duration and level;
(ii) inclusion of more cost effective active labor market mterventions; (iii) appropnate definition of
unemployment; (iv) revised rules on obligations of unemployed to take work and other employment programs
offered by LMB; and (v) permitting private providers to perform vanous job placement services.
27 Satisfactory law would include elements outlined in footnote 18 above.
25



o   Enactment by Serbia of a unified Law on Social Insurance Contributions which is satisfactory to IDA.
28
o   Enactment by Serbia of amendments to the Law on Welfare and Providing Social Security to Citizens
satisfactory to IDA. 29
o  Enactment by Serbia of the Law on Employment and Insurance in Case of Unemployment
satisfactory to IDA. 30
o  Enactment by Serbia of a Law on Medicinal Products satisfactory to the IDA. 31
o  Govemment of Serbia has taken all necessary measures to reduce significantly the scope of co-
payment exemptions for health services in public facilities currently pursuant to the Law on Health
Insurance, which are satisfactory to IDA.
o  The Govemment of Serbia has adopted a decision on health plannig standards and guidelines
required for the elaboration of a health facilities master plan for purposes of future restructuring of
health services in Serbia, satisfactory to the Association.
E.   Fiduciary and accountability environment
77. The recent Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) undertook a detailed analysis of
both public financial accountability and fiduciary considerations related to use of IDA funds in SAM.
The main findings were as follows:
o   on fiduciary considerations on use of IDA funds, the review of the National Bank of Yugoslavia
(NBY) as a deposit account holder mdicated that SAM had appropriate capacity to manage IDA's
credits, understood the flow of funds, and had issued well-documented instructions on recording
obligations to the World Bank. IDA and the Borrower agreed upon an acceptable mechanism for
disbursing and monitoring IDA funds under the recent Serbia SAC, and similar arrangements were
confirmed at negotiations for SOSAC. In the interim, the name of the NBY has been changed to the
National Bank of Serbia (NBS), but the institution and its current capacity remain the same.
O  onpublicfinancial accountability, there were a range of shortcomings identified by the CFAA which
are not uncommon to countries in ECA, including: (a) weak budget planning and preparation,
including need for greater comprehensiveness of budgeting, including for extra budgetary funds; (ii)
weak management of budget execution, in particular lack of control of commitments and mefficient
cash management; (iii) weak financial controls, including lack of updated information on the financial
position of line ministries, weak follow-up to ensure appropriate use of budgetary funds, and need to
strengthen internal audit and introduce a system of extemal audit.
78. The GOS is moving aggressively to address the weakness identified, including through the new
Law on Budget Systems, which anticipates a modem budget system. In particular, the GOS has
28 Satisfactory to include elements outlined in footnote 20 above.
29 Satisfactory amendments to include: (i) uniform eligibility threshold for SA; (ii) mdexing benefits to cost of
living; and (in) increased benefits for those receiving carer's allowance.
30 Satisfactory would include elements as per footnote 22 above.
31 Satisfactory would include elements outlined in footnote 21 above.
32 Satisfactory would tnclude guidelines which: (i) apply to all levels of the state-owned system of health facilities
(primary, secondary and terhary); (ii) provide a clear categorization of such health facilities and their service
provision responsibilities; and (iii) develop a clear referral system between different levels of the health services
network.
26



established a Treasury within MOFE, and the new system is expected to be implemented by end 2003,
with an intenm treasury/general ledger implemented by MOFE in late 2002 to improve cash management
and commitment control. Implementation of the new Treasury and budget process reforms is being
supported by a range of donors, including EU, USAID, DFID and IDA. The Bank is working with the
Government to follow up on issues identified in the CFAA.
F.   Proiect Management Issues
79. Credit Amount, Borrower/Beneficiary, Terms, Tranching. The proposed SOSAC would be made to
Serbia and Montenegro, represented by the union level Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
(MFER). The final beneficiary will be Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Economy.
80. The proposed Credit amount is SDR 60.4 million (US$ 80 million equivalent). This was increased
from the TSSU estimate of US$ 61 million based on the enhanced strength and scope of the agreed
program. The Credit would be on modified IDA terms, with a maturity of 20 years, including a grace
period of 10 years with no acceleration clause.  The proposed increased Credit size would be
accommodated by reallocation of FY04 funding within the existing agreed $540 mrllion FY02-04 IDA
envelope. There would be no change in the overall envelope or its adjustment: investment ratio balance.
81.  It is proposed to disburse the Credit in two equal tranches. The first tranche would be released
upon approval of the Credit and notification by IDA of Credit Agreement Effectiveness. The union level
MFER will open and maintain a special Deposit Account in the NBS on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. Upon notification by IDA of Credit Effectiveness and submission to IDA of a withdrawal
application, the proceeds of the first tranche of the Credit will be deposited by the Association into the
Deposit Account of the union level MIER. The Borrower will make available to Serbia in Dinar to its
general budgetary account the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Followmg the approval of these terms and conditions by the Government
of Serbia, the Borrower will then enact a law related to the above arrangements which is satisfactory to
IDA (a Condition of Effectiveness).
82. Reporting, Accounting and Auditing. The NBS would maintain records of all transactions under the
credit in accordance with sound accounting practices. Upon the request of IDA, the NBS will prepare a
report showing all payments into and from the Deposit Account and will have the report audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The
Borrower should furnish the audited report not later than four months after the date of IDA's request for
such an audit.
83. In terms of financial monitoring, IDA has developed new guidelines on financial management
requirements in adjustment operations, which are to be applied to the proposed Credit. Through the
guidelines, IDA will complement its increased emphasis on borrower public financial management in its
analytic work and lending program with stronger reporting and auditing arrangements over the
disbursements of adjustment loan proceeds. These controls are not intended to restnct or prescribe the
uses to which adjustment loan proceeds may be applied by borrowers. Rather, they are intended to
provide assurance that IDA funds have arnved at their mtended destination, have been used in the first
instance for their intended purpose of providing balance of payments support, and will be subject to the
borrower processes for managing public resources which are known to and can be reviewed by both IDA
and the IM;.
84. The Closing Date for the project would be June 30, 2004.
27



G.   Poverty Implications
85.  The poverty impact of the operation has short and medium term elements. In the short run, the
main direct impacts will be: (i) substantial strengthening in health coverage for vulnerable groups, with
likely impact of improving use of healthcare services and possibly reducing out of pocket usage costs; (ii)
significantly improved targeting of social assistance and child protection, both in terms of increased
coverage for poor households in poorer areas, and more effective exclusion of non-poor households
through improved means-testing. The introduction to price indexation of benefits will also protect their
real value, making the system more robust as a poverty alleviation tool. In addition, it is expected that the
policy reforms supported by SOSAC should increase the aggregate level of public spending on social
welfare benefits and programs. Within social welfare, there should also be an intra-sectoral reallocation
of public spending from child protection to general social assistance, which survey data from Serbia and
neighboring SFRY countries confirm is a better targeted intervention; (iii) while the reduction on co-
payment exemptions in public healthcare facilities will have a negative impact on some households,
targeting of remaining exemptions will be improved and the possibility for the public sector to enforce
exemptions in practice should increase for vulnerable households and high users. In addition, the
proposed system of reference pricing should ensure that there is a low or no cost option for all drug
categories in the essential drugs list; (iv) the new Law on Employment should promote a much more
effective LMB in terms of facilitating re-entry to the labor market for the unemployed; and (v) while
difficult to tie to specific future interventions, the initiation and institutionalization of regular household
surveys should provide stronger poverty focus to public policy formulation and monitonng.
86. In the medium term, most of the short run impacts above should persist. The strongest medium
term impact will be felt through expenditure control in the pensions system. To date, both the pensions
and social welfare systems have continued to run arrears and not been able to meet all commltments.
Stabilizing the financial position of both systems will ensure regular and fiscally affordable payments,
which beneficiaries have indicated is their primary need. In the health sector, the various measures
supported under SOSAC should contribute to a range of medium term improvements outlined in para. 45,
nearly all of which will benefit the poor disproportionately, as they typically suffer the most from high
priced drugs and lack of availability in public pharmacies.
1EH[. Environmental Impact
87.  The proposed SOSAC is not expected to result in any negative impact on the environment. For the
purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, the ECSSD review rated the Credit as Category C, which does
not require an environmental assessment.
28



Annex 1: Main Economic Indicators
Estimate                 Projected
Indicator               1998    1999    2000     2001    2002    2003     2004    2005
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Total Consumption                         ..      ..   102.7    107.3   107.0    103.0   101.0    99 3
Gross domestic investmnent                ..      ..    14.2     13.6    16.1     17.0    17.6    18.5
Govermnentinvestrnent                   ..      ..      3.1     1.6      3.6     3.4     4.1      4 5
Private investmnent                      ..     ..     11.1    12.1     12.4    14.0     13.9    14.0
Exports (GNFS)8                           ..      ..    29.6     23.7    20.7    20.1     21.7    23.0
Imports (GNFS)                            ..      ..    46.5     44.6    43.8    40.1     40.3    40 8
Gross domestic savings                    ..      ..    -2.7     -7.3    -7.0     -3.0    -1.0     0 7
Gross national savmgs                     ..      ..    10.3      9.1     7.2     8.7      9.7     11.3
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                    ..      ..    8603   11577    15658   19868   20909    21926
(US$ mnillion at current prices)
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  ..             5.0     5.5      4.0     5.0      4.0     4.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 2000 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  ..     ..       ..     5.4      3.9     4.9      3.9     3.9
Total consumption                       ..      ..       ..    12.4      7.5     4.0      2.0     2.2
Private consumpthon                      ..      ..      ..     14.2     6.3     3.0      2 0     2.3
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS)a                       3947    2148     2547    2743     3241    3993     4539    5050
Merchandise FOB                     3033     1677    1923    2003     2412    2972     3378    3758
hIrnorts (GNFS)a                      5270    3539    4004     5160    6857     7975    8509     9079
Merchandise FOB                     4849    3296     3711    4837     6320    7350     7841    8331
Resource balance                     -1323    -1391   -1457   -2417    -3616   -3982    -3970   -4029
Netcurrenttransfers                    655     668     1119     1915    2343    2555     2569    2723
Current account balance               -660    -764     -339    -528    -1388   -1665    -1651   -1588
Net private foreign direct investrnent  113     112      25      165     562     731      800     850
Long-terrn loans (net)                  25      12      213     502      673     768     1071     645
Officialb                              25      12      213     333      569     663      636     410
Pnvate                                  0       0        0      169     104     105      435     235
Other capital (net, mcl. errors & ommissions)  407  529  347    383     1264     553      338     258
Change mreservesc                      115     111     -246     -522   -1111    -387     -557    -165
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of GDP)               ..      ..   -16.9    -20.9   -23.1    -20.0   -19.0    -18.4
Annual dollar-value growth rates
Merchandise exports (FOB)             23.9    -44.7     14.7     4.2    20.4     23.2    13 7     l 3
Merchandise imnports (CIF)              1.0   -32.0     12.6    30.3    30.7     16.3     6.7      6.2
(Continued)
29



Serbia and Montenegro - Key Economic lmndicators
(Continued)
Indicator           1 998  1999   200    20     202    00     204     05
Public finance (as % of GDP at markef
Current revenues and              ..     ..   37.5   39.6   43.6   41.9   41.7   40.7
Current                           ..      .   34.5   38.6   43.9   42.2   41.1   39.7
Current account surplus (+) or deficit  ..  ..  3.0   1.0   -0.3   -0.3    0.6    1.0
Capital                           ..     ..    3.1    1.6    3.6    3.4    4.1    4.5
Overall                                       -0.2   -0.6   -3.9   -3.7   -3.6   -3.6
Monetary
M2/GDP                            ..     ..    9.1    8.0   10.6   10.9   11.1   11.3
Price indices( 2000
Real exchange rate                ..     ..  100.0  134.0  164.4  188.7   186.8  184.i
Retail price index (%             ..   49.9  113.5   39.0   15.5    9.0    7.0    5.0
a. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor
b. Includes use of IIMF
c. On a gross basis.
d. Consolidated general
e. Comprises Serbian dinar-denominated money supply
f. "LCU" denotes "local currencv units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes
30



Serbia and Montenegro - Key Exposure Indicators
Fstimate            Projected
Indicator         1 998  1999   2000   2001   2002   2003  2004   2005
Total debt outstanding and             ..  11407  11741  11678  10572  11862  1192Z
disbursed (TDO)
Net disbursements               0      0    229    502    753    848   1151    725
Total debt service (TDS)        0      0     56     107   255    480    765    885
Debt and debt service indicators
TDO/XGS                        ..    ..   447.9  428.0  360.3  264.8  261.3  236.1
TDO/GDP                        ..    ..   132.6  101.4  74.6   53.2   56.7   54.4
TDS/XGS                       ..     ..    2.3    3.9    7.9   12.0   16.9   17.5
IBRD exposure indicators
IBRD DS/public"DS            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   56.7   36.1   22.4   22.E
Preferred creditor DS/public rS  0.0  0.0  0.0   51.1   75.8   65.2   76.7   74.1
IBRD DS/XGS                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    2.5    2.8    2.6    2.6
IBRD TDO (USgm)             1128   1148   1119   1012  2175   2305   2372   2364
IDA TDO (US$m)                 0      0      0     0     168    339    539    539
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net
term capital.
b. Reflects debt service
c. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and
d. Public debt includes the IMF.
e. Preferred creditors are defined as 1BRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IM]
Bank for International
f. Excludes interest arrears and penalty interest through
31



a    'N a   r- m- 
.4  -Et     .-% 
Cu~~1 _
C~~~~~~~~~~~
S.-~~~ |BW 
-o~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~~ -E 
^~~~~~~~~~ 2  2} |i2 |2 ff z E f 
E + 7 i i,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Annex 3: Timetable of Key Processing Events
Identification Mission:             June-July 2002
ICM review:                         September 2002
Pre-Appraisal:                      September-October 2002
Appraisal departure:                November 2002
Negotiations-                       December 11-13, 2002
Board presentation:                 April 2003
33



Annex 4: Letter of Sectoral Devellopment Policy
Social Sector Adjustment Credit to Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
December 27, 2002
Mr. J. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
1818 H St. NW
Washmgton DC, 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
I.   Introduction
This Letter of Sectoral Development Policy describes the main tenets of the economic reform
program of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and the Republic of Serbia. This includes
the macroeconomic framework that complements the program, which has been agreed with the
International Monetary Fund under an Extended Arrangement. This letter also outlmes prionty
measures and medium term reforms we intend to undertake in the social sectors, includmg
pensions, social assistance and child protection, employment programs, and health. We consider
social policy reforms as an integral part of our overall reform strategy, important both in
improving the living standards of our citizens in a fiscally sustainable manner, and m promoting
social acceptance of our broader economic reform program. To implement these reforms under
current conditions, the Govemments of FRY and the Republic of Serbia request financial
assistance from the World Bank under the proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC).
Such support will also promote realization of our Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP)
reform agenda, which has a strong emphasis on effective and sustainable social policies in Serbia.
The policy agenda supported by SOSAC also builds on earlier cooperation with the Intemational
Development Association (IDA) under the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) and the
Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant (SPEAG), both of which have been implemented
successfully.
As you are aware, the constituent Republics of FRY, Serbia and Montenegro, have recently
submitted to their respective Parliaments a new Constitutional Charter, which would provide the
legal framework for new relations at the federal level. The Charter proposes to devolve a number
of responsibilities from the federal to republican level, some of which are part of the social sector
reform program supported under SOSAC. We expect that the Charter will be adopted by the
republican parliaments in the near future, and work initiated on additional implementing
legislation at federal and republican levels. This should then allow further progress in Serbia on
several issues in our social reform program, including the enactment of pensions and health
related legislation.
34



II. Macroeconomic Framework:
FRY and the Republic of Serbia inhented a very difficult economic situation in 2000, where poor
economic management durng the 1990s had been exacerbated by the effects of conflict and
sanctions.  The deterioration in living standards was widespread and poverty increased
significantly dunng the decade. In breaking with this difficult legacy, the Federal and Serbian
governments have followed a two-pronged approach combining stabilization measures with the
first steps in structural reforms. Our key instrument for macroeconomic stabilization has been the
adjustment of fiscal deficits towards levels financeable from non-inflationary sources. This shift
has been supported by initial reforms of public financial management and the tax system, as well
as progress in adjusting pnces to contain the losses of key state enterprises.
Our macroeconomic policies were supported by an IMEF program approved in December 2000,
followed by a Stand By Arrangement approved in June 2001. In May 2002, the IMF Executive
Board approved a three-year arrangement for FRY under the Extended Arrangement (EA)
through March 2005. Such an arrangement was a prerequisite for implementing the 66 percent
debt reduction which we negotiated with the Paris Club in November 2001, which cuts our debt
substantially in line with adequate performance under the EA. The macroeconomic objectives
agreed under our EA program include: (a) achieving GDP growth of 5 percent in 2003-05; (b)
reducing Serbia's mflation from 39 percent in 2001 to 5 percent in 2005; and (c) reducing FRY's
current account deficit from 10.9 percent of GDP in 2001 to 7.8 percent in 2005.
The second pillar of our strategies was mitiation of structural and institutional reforms across a
wide front. Many of the reforms were supported by two IDA adjustment credits - the SAC and
the first Public and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) - and this will continue under
the proposed SOSAC and other possible future adjustment operations. In addition, reform of the
financial sector, the establishment of transparent procedures for privatization of state- and
socially-owned enterprises, improvements in the tax regime and business environment, and
liberalization of trade policy, have combined to provide a basis for stimulating near-term growth
and for a sustainable supply response. Reforms in public expenditure management, taxes, and
customs are backed by an anti-corruption strategy for improving governance and institutions.
We believe that strong implementation to-date has brought visible progress, and has laid the
foundations for a sustained recovery and improved living standards. Twelve month inflation
declined from 115 percent at end 2000 to 39 percent at end 2001, and further to 15 percent mi
2002. The nominal exchange rate of the Yugoslav dinar to the German mark and later the Euro
has remained stable and unified since December 2000. Our official foreign reserves grew to
US$2.1 billion at end 2002, exceeding IMEF program targets. Real GDP has rebounded from a
decline of about 16 percent in 1999, growing by 5.5 percent in 2001 and a projected 4 percent in
2002, despite the effects of a transitional recession in some sectors.
The consolidated fiscal deficit mcreased from 1 percent of GDP in 2000 to an expected 5.1
percent in 2002. 3 This is because the expenditure savings from the structural reform program
were initially outweighed by more realistic budgeting of commitments, and the brnging on
budget of some quasi-fiscal activities. More recently, our public spending has been increased by a
sharp increase in debt service payments and the coming on stream of some donor-financed public
investments. The resulting mcrease in fiscal deficit has been managed in a manner consistent with
33 The mcrease was accounted for by bank and enterprise restructuring costs (around 2 percentage points of
GDP), and the remamder by renewed interest payments on foreign debt and capital mvestments.
35



stabilization due to the strong inflow of donor funding since 2000. Despite this good progress,
we recognize that our fiscal position remains fragile, and that a deeper reform of public
expenditures is needed to bring the associated risks to manageable levels.
Looking forward, we expect that our continued efforts to stabilize and reform our economy,
backed by substantial support from donors and creditors, will allow our real output to grow at an
annual rate of around 4 percent from 2002 onwards. We expect that our near-term growth will be
driven by nsing exports, a more vibrant SME sector, improved balance in the energy sector, and
greater donor financing of public investments. In the medium-term, we expect that growth will
increasingly be driven by greater productivity and enhanced financial intermediation, the entry of
new firms, infrastructure rehabilitation and investments in new productive capacity. Given our
starting point and continued high debt burden, we expect that this recovery will take time.
We also recognize that the limited domestic sources of budget financing and likely phasing down
of extemal financing will require a phased reduction in fiscal deficits. Despite a large increase in
public debt service payments and the continued bringing on budget of quasi-fiscal activities, the
consolidated fiscal deficit will decrease slightly from 5.1 percent of GDP in 2002 to around 4
percent in 2004. Expenditure reductions in the outer years will be supported by a leveling off of
debt service payments, deeper savings from reforms, and improvements in tax administration.
While cash outlays will decline by around 2 percentage points of GDP from 2002 to 2004, the
program achieves additional cuts in expenditure commitments and quasi-fiscal deficits. In such a
difficult setting, balance of payments and budgetary support from donors will work to ensure that
the overall fiscal adjustment is not excessively abrupt, with adverse economic or social
consequences. The adjustment program of the World Bank outlined in the Transitional Support
Strategy Update, which includes the proposed SOSAC, is therefore a key element of our strategy
to achieve a sustained increase in the living standards of our citizens.
111M1[. Social Sectors Reform Program
Since entering Government in late 2000, the FRY and Serbian authorities have made significant
progress in reforming the social sectors, in part with support from the SAC and SPEAG. This
includes in Serbia a new market-oriented Labor Law, initial adjustments of our pension systems,
interim revisions in the social safety net, and initial measures to increase accountability in the
public healthcare system. While progress has been made, we realize the need for more
fundamental reforms in the social sectors.
The overall goal of our reforms in social protection, labor and health is to move towards
programs which are more fiscally sustainable while continuing to provide core benefits and
services to the population, m particular the poorest. We recognize the need to reduce short- and
medium-term fiscal pressures from social programs through a combination of entitlement reform
and efficiency improvements in the social sectors. At the same time, we aim to maximize the
poverty alleviation impact of a given level of public spending through improved targeting and
sustained access for the poor to cash benefits and services, including health and social welfare.
While we recognize that balancing these sometimes competing objectives will be challenging, we
are confident that the program outlined below does this in a satisfactory manner. We also
recognize that social policy reforms are socially and politically sensitive long-term measures
which require careful sequencing. The program therefore also outlines our medium-term
commitments in the social policy area, which we anticipate will continue to receive significant
donor support dunng their implementation.
36



An additional objective of our social sector reforms is improved transparency and accountability
in the management of public funds in social programs and monitonng of their impact. We are
aware that the inherited system did not encourage transparency and that improving the situation
will take time. However, we view a number of the measures outlined below as key starting points
for improving the situation in these areas of substantial public spending.
While the program outlined below has a strong legislative component, we judge that this is
appropnate at this early stage of transition in order to provide a comprehensive overhaul of the
inherited socialist era legislation. We are also actively engaged in preparation and implementation
of technical assistance operations with the World Bank and donors in the social protection, health,
labor and budget management areas which should strengthen institutional capacity to implement
the challenging social policy agenda. The main areas for social sector reforms for which we are
seeking support under the SOSAC are:
*    systemic reforms to the PAYGO pension system, includmg preliminary steps in institutional
reform, and also developing the legal framework for operation of voluntary private pensions.
o   reforms of non-pension cash transfers, including social assistance, child protection and
unemployment programs.
*   reforms in reporting and collection of social insurance payroll taxes, and budget formulation
and audit of the Pension and Health Funds.
*   measures to stabilize public sector health finances, including ensunng financing for
vulnerable groups, reduction of co-payment exemptions, and reforms in drugs policy. This
would be complemented by efficiency-enhancing measures to improve the information base
of the health sector and initial measures to develop a facilities restructunng program; and
*   ongoing implementation of representative household surveys in order to monitor living
standards and evaluate the social and fiscal impact of current and planned public policies.
Each of these areas is discussed in more detail below.
A.   Pension reform
Context: Spending in the Serbian pension system continues to pose financial strains on our
budget. The core pension/GDP ratio remains in the high range of 13 percent, while total pension
system expenditures, including military and other privileged pensions paid directly from the
budget, stand at a high 15 percent. The level of arrears as of January 2002 stood at around 4
percent of GDP. Although this remams a serious fiscal and social concern, the level of arrears
has declined, most notably in the case of farmers where delays in pension payments have been
reduced from 24 to 14 months. Financing current pension obligations and reduction of arrears has
been made possible by a large transfer from the Republican budget of 55 billion dinars in 2002.
In 2001, the Federal Parliament passed amendments to the Federal Pension Law endorsing initial
parametnc changes to the PAYGO system, including increasing the retirement age from 60 to 63
for men and from 55 to 58 for women in a single step, changing indexation from full wage to half
wage and half price indexation, and unifying the minimum pension level. These measures were
supported under the SAC. Earlier, the pension contribution rate was reduced from 32 percent to
19.6 percent of gross wages, while the definition of wage income was expanded to include a
range of hitherto untaxed allowances. Overall, the reforms in 2001 represented a significant
initial adjustment to the pension system which has contributed to regular payment of current
pensions. However, we recognize that a more fundamental overhaul of the system is required to
address the core problems of overly generous entitlements in the system and a weak link between
37



contributions and benefits.
Priority reforms:    Fundamental reform of the pension system in Serbia is a major social and
fiscal pnonty for the Serbian Government. To this end, the Serbian Ministry of Social Affairs
(MOSA) has coordinated efforts to develop a new Pension Insurance Law which we have
approved at Government level. While presently pensions are a responsibility of the Federal level,
we plan to address this in the near future either as part of the broader division of constitutional
responsibilities between the federal and republican levels, or - if the resolution of those issues
takes longer than expected - a Federal level law which would delegate responsibility for pensions
to the republican level. This would then allow for passage by the Serbian Parliament of the new
Pension Insurance Law. The MOSA has conducted intensive and wide-ranging consultations with
key stakeholders on the draft Law, includmg pensioners' associations, trades unions,
representatives of farmers and the self-employed, private sector representatives, NGOs,
academics and media. We are confident that the proposal balances various objectives and
interests m a satisfactory manner and has broad support. The key elements of the new Law which
the Government of Serbia proposes to submit to the Serbian Parliament are:
o  Introduce a point fonnula which should result m a closer link between benefits and
contributions. This would act as a fundamental systemic change which would address the
underlying problem of overly-generous accrual rates in the system and control fiscal costs.
Since the introduction of the point formula would eliminate the gender solidarity built into
the current formula, we have also included provisions that would retain some beneficial
treatment of women in the new system to ensure that the gender impact of the reform is
socially acceptable.
o   Widen the calculation periodfor initial pensions from the current 10 best years to entire work
history. Our simulations indicate that the fiscal impact of this reform should be significantly
higher in Serbia due to the path of wages and inflation during the 1990s.
O  Reduce temporary disability provisions and tighten procedures for disability eligibility. In
Serbia there is a very high share of disability pensioners, almost triple the EU average. In
absence of general early retirement provisions, which were removed in 1997, we expect
further pressure on disability pensions as enterprise restructuring progresses. We are
determmed to avoid the pension system being used to cushion the impact of laid-off workers.
In order to achieve this, we plan to tighten temporary disability provisions for existing
working beneficiaries by reducing benefit levels and converting them to the general disability
scheme. We also plan to shorten eligibility periods for the working disabled.
o  We expect increased pressure on general disability as a consequence of tightenig eligibility
for temporary eligibility. In order to prevent unsupportable demands on the general disability
system, we would tighten eligibility conditions, particularly in relation to initial disability
assessment for which the definition of "disabled" will be adjusted to reflect remaining general
ability to work, rather than ability to work only in a person's prior specific occupation. Such
a measure is consistent with Western European practice.
O  Retain mandatory participation offarmers. Farmers' pensions are a challenging area with no
simple solutions. Current coverage of farmers stands at 60 percent and does not provide
adequate insurance, particularly for survivors and in case of disability. The poor financial
state of the Farmers' Pension Fund has led to the desire in some quarters that farmers should
be allowed to opt out of the system. However, opt-out could result in social and fiscal
38



problems, undermining old age security for farming households and increasing pressure on
future social assistance expenditures. The Serbian Govemment plans to retain mandatory
participation in the system for farmers, while also including provisions which will
accommodate the circumstances of poorer farming households with low cash incomes.
In addition to our efforts to complete the above policy reform of our public pension system, the
Government of Serbia recognizes that the current institutional arrangements for civilian pensions
in Serbia are inefficient and undermne transparency. In order to address this, we plan to
consolidate the current three civilian funds - the Employed Fund, Farmers' Fund, and Self-
Employed Fund - into one. We need, however, to take prior steps to make the consolidation
effective, including harmonization of the revenue bases for each fund and further consolidation of
reporting and collection functions. In the short term, we plan to approve a Government program
for consolidation of the funds which would set a clear implementation timetable for the
implementation.
A further element of our short run efforts m pension reform is to bring the newly emerging
private pension fund industry within a well-defined legal and regulatory framework. Currently
private funds are licensed under the Federal Law on Insurance, which we consider an inadequate
framework to regulate the specificities of the pension fund industry. We are therefore developing
a specific Law on Voluntary Pension Funds under the leadership of the Serbian Ministry of
Finance and Economy (MOFE) with inputs from MOSA, which we plan to submit to the Serbian
Parliament in mid-2003.
The medium term reform agenda: The Government of Serbia intends to follow through on the
above agenda in the medium-term through continued reforms of both the PAYGO and funded
pension systems. For the PAYGO system, the Serbian Government would during 2004 begin to
implement its program for consolidation of the three civilian pension funds, in order to promote
greater efficiency of administration. Further policy revisions would also be made to promote a
clearer separation between social insurance benefits under the pension system and social welfare
benefits of different forms. The Serbian Government would also repay from the budget over a
four year penod from 2003 the debt to pensioners accumulated in 1994-95 as a result of improper
indexation of pensions at that time.
With respect to funded pensions, it is not the intention of the Govemment of Serbia at this point
to introduce a mandatory second pillar, but rather to ensure that voluntary pension funds operate
in a more appropriate regulatory environment. This would include resolving open questions on
the appropriateness of having unified or separate regulators for bank and non-bank financial
sectors, and the administrative location of the regulator. Overall, we will continue to monitor the
impact of reforms through indicators such as the share of pension spendmg in total public
spending and GDP, the stock of arrears outstanding, and timeliness of current pension payments.
We will also pay close attention to the situation of pensioners in our broader living standards
monitoring efforts to ensure that there is an appropriate balance between the fiscal and social
outcomes of the reform.
B. Harmonizing payroll taxes and reforming budget management in extra-budgetary funds
Context: Extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) in the Republic of Serbia have been characterized by
inefficiencies and lack of transparency, including fragmented roles in revenue collection and
budgetary management. Given the high spending share in consolidated expenditures on pensions
and health, we consider that improvements in transparency and efficiency of social insurance
39



payroll tax collection and financial management in EBFs are critical. Over the past two years, we
have been working actively to strengthen public expenditure management (PEM), and these
efforts are now extending to the EBFs. The new Law on the Budget System envisages a phased
extension of the new PEM principles to the EBFs, as well as a gradual harmonization of EBF
budget management principles with those of the core republican budget
In terms of reporting and revenue collection for social insurance contributions - i.e. pension,
health and unemployment insurance - the current system functions in an uncoordinated manner,
which is both inefficient and facilitates evasion. Our goal is to consolidate a number of revenue
reporting, enforcement and control functions under the Serbian Public Revenue Agency (PRA),
but strengthening the capacity of this office will take time. A major initial challenge will be trying
to brng greater consistency into calculation of tax rates and bases for various categories of
contributors, as the current system is overly complex and likely to be an obstacle to future efforts
to consolidate reporting, enforcement and control functions. It would also be important to ensure
that all non-wage labor remuneration is included in the taxable base for payroll taxation, whlch
has not been the case to-date. These measures should help significantly to stabilize the revenue
position of the EBFs, and simplify reporting for employers.
Priority reforms: In order to complement the various policy reforms in this area, we plan to
harmonize and simplify the current system of calculating and reporting on social insurance
contributions, mcludmg broademng the base for payroll taxation to include additional forms of
non-wage labor mcome (e.g., honoraria). In addition, we will continue to improve EBF financial
management at different stages of the budget cycle as part of our efforts to roll out PEM reforms.
Specifically, we plan the following short term reforms:
 The Serbian Government has appointed a working group with agreed policy principles to
guide its work to develop a Law on Social Insurance Contributions aimed at simplifying the
collection and reporting systems for all social insurance contnbutions, broadening the
contribution base to capture broader categories of non-wage labor income, and harmonizing
contribution bases within the social insurance system. We consider this an important reform
in simplification of payroll taxation which should contribute both to greater efficiency in tax
administration and simplified reporting for employers. We plan to submit it to Parliament in
2003. In addition, the Serbian MOFE will approve in the near future a Ministerial decision to
require submission of all reports on social contributions to the PRA.
O  Budget formulation and audit in the EBFs:  As noted, we plan to strengthen our efforts to
roll-out good PEM in the EBFs. In particular, we will focus on two elements of budget
management in EBFs: (i) for budget formulation, we plan reforms to better integrate the
social funds into the overall budget process, including requiring the social funds to adopt
GFS-compliant charts of accounts, amendments to the budget calendar of the social funds to
comply with the Law on the Budget System (LOBS), and measures to establish a clear link
between budget formulation in the social funds and the three-year macro-fiscal framework
being formulated by the MOFE; and (ii) for audit and control, we have already initiated
measures to strengthen these procedures in 2001, including submission to parliament of an
inspection report on all major Republic-level government agencies and social funds. We
recognize that these one-off inspections will over time need to be replaced by a more
institutionalized process of audit and control throughout the budget system.
The medium term reform agenda: In the medium term, we plan to continue budget management
refonn in the EBFs at all stages of the budget cycle, in order to ensure that EBF budgeting
40



practices are fully compliant with the LOBS. This will have several elements, including
strengthening capacity in the EBFs to prepare budget requests within a well-developed medium
term fiscal framework, and more timely and consistent reporting on budget execution during the
budget year, including in the case of the HIF for state-owned health facilities. The progressive
strengthening of budget management in the EBFs wvll also require rolling out the new PEM
practices to regional and lower level branches of the funds, which we plan to do as capacity
permits. Finally, we plan to conduct thorough mstitutional evaluations of each EBF in light of our
progress in consolidation of payroll tax reporting, enforcement and control into the PRA. This
will help to identify possible redundant functions in the EBFs as a result of consolidation. In
terms of monitoring the effectiveness of the above reforns, we will regularly evaluate compliance
on payment of payroll tax contributions, thmeliness and reliability of budget execution reportng
by the EBFs, and findings and recommendations of EBF audits.
C.   Health sector reforms
Context:     We recognize that Serbia's health care system is not fiscally sustainable, and that
urgent efforts are needed to stabilize sectoral revenues and expenditures. In order to do this in a
manner that ensures adequate access to and quality of health services, efficiency improvements
are required. Public spending on health in Serbia was estimated in 2001 at close to 7 percent of
GDP. Taking account of private spending, total health expenditure range between 9 and II
percent of GDP. The cornerstone of the public financing system is the Health Insurance Fund
(HIF). Transfers from the republican and the federal Governments are intended for financing
investments, and health care provision for vulnerable groups and refugees. However, in recent
years these transfers have been very limited. Private expenditure on health is pervasive and
covers a combination of nominal co-payments, services purchased on the pnvate market and from
military health facilities, and extensive under-the-table payments. We recognize that
sustainability requires that the gap between HIF revenues and its expenditures be bndged, which
calls for efforts to improve revenues and control spending.
There are several problems in the sector which we consider amenable to early intervention:
* We consider drugs policy and practice a serious cause for concern; in part as a significant
cost in the public system and for individuals, but also for reasons of transparency. The
current system of drug regulation does not comply with good EU and international practice,
and will undermine both export and inward foreign investment opportunities for domestic
drug firms.
* Financing of health coverage for uninsured groups has been highly problematic in recent
years, m particular for the refugee population, placing major strains on facilities which
continue to provide care and raising concerns on access.
* While co-payments have been introduced in state-owned health facilities, the scale of
exemptions remains very high (around 70 percent of the population), making them ineffective
in both revenue and possible demand regulation terms. The level of co-payments is also very
low.
*  Basic information on contributors, users of the system and costs is either not available or
unreliable. This limits our capacity to monitor the efficiency and effectiveness of the system,
and to make plans for addressing the sector's major problems.
41



o  The sector is characterized by large structural inefficiencies. In particular, overcapacity in
the hospital sector appears a likely cause of high spending, with an mefficient network of
facilities.
Priority reforms:   The problems of our health sector are complex and structural and will
take considerable time to resolve. Until we address the more serious structural issues, the scope
for substantial efficiency improvements in the sector is limited. However, we believe that there is
scope for improvements even in the short run which will assist in stabilizing the resource base of
the sector, improve quality and access, and support initial steps towards addressing structural
problems. The short run reforms which the Government of Serbia is implementing include:
o Improvements in drugs policy and practice, including procurement, registration and licensing.
To this end, the Govenmment of Serbia plans to submit to the Serbian Parliament a New Law
on Medicinal Products, as well as completion of sectoral guidelines for the new Republican
Public Procurement Law. We have approved at the Serbian Government level a draft Law
which is compliant with EU practice, establishes an independent Drugs Agency and an
effective licensing mechanism for drugs, and promotes adequate quality control and
inspection.
o The Government has recently taken the following steps in preparation of the 2003 budget
which present a significant improvement in the adequacy of health financing for vulnerable
groups: (i) identification of vulnerable groups for whom budget transfers to the HIF are
required, with a clear definition and estimate of the required contribution; and (ii) inclusion of
an adequate amount in the 2003 budget for health coverage for vulnerable groups and
pensioners. We will ensure that the budgetary allocation is executed in a full and timely
manner.
o  We plan to reduce co-payment exemptions on health services, while still ensuring that the
vulnerable and those most dependent on the system are not impoverished. The Ministry of
Health (MOH) and HIF have established a working group to reduce exemptions on co-
payments. The outcome of this work would be an HIF/MOH decree approved by the
Government of Serbia in early 2003 pursuant to the Serbian Law on Health Insurance which
would significantly reduce co-payment exemptions. At the same time, we do not expect
substantial revenue impact from the reforms. The more significant impact is likely to come
from the demand effect on unnecessary use of the system. We intend to ensure adequate
protection for the poor and vulnerable through retention of exemptions for these groups.
o  With respect to arrears in the health system - receivables and payables of the HIF and state-
owned health care institutions - we will produce a consolidated statement of accumulated
debts to and from the HIF and State-owned health facilities, and conduct at least an annual
update of the statement.
o  Monitoring performance and quality in the health system: The Serbian Health Information
System (HIS) Commission has initiated work on development of the master plan for health
information. We will agree on an implementation plan for design and roll-out of the new HIS
over the coming years, beginning with development of national standards, with support from
the World Bank and other donors.
o The Serbian authonties have taken initial steps towards development of a health facilities
42



restructuring master plan which would be a basis for future restructunng of health services in
Serbia. This is a key measure in reducing the current inefficiencies in the hospital network.
The Master Plan will require republican Health Planning Standards and Guidelines for the
health care services to be covered, which we plan to approve following consensus building
among the key stakeholders.
Medium term reform objectives.  The Government of Serbia is committed to a long run
structural reform agenda in the health sector, in partnership with a range of donors. The major
elements of the reforms would be: (i) using the vehicle of the Health Facilities Restructuring
Master Plan, we plan to promote a more rational network of state-owned health facilities which
would provide higher quality public services through more efficient use of resources; (ii)
assurance of an adequate supply of safe quality drugs into Serbia in an open pharmaceuticals
market, and ensunng that procurement and licensing practices in the sector become more
independent and transparent. This would allow us to move towards more comparable pnces for
non-patent drugs and medical supplies; (iii) on-going reform of the health financing system to
promote greater emphasis on output-oriented, incentive-based methods of paying providers, and
impetus to give greater autonomy to healthcare institutions. This should also increase the
geographic equity in health care financing. Achieving this in a manner that is consistent with
broader efforts in budgetary management reform will be challenging; and (iv) we will implement
in a staged manner the agreed health information systems and master plan.
These reforms will be pursued with a clear vision of on-going coverage for vulnerable groups,
which will require continued transfers from the budget in future years for non-earners, uninsured
and vulnerable groups, and a co-payment system which protects high users of health care and
controls informal payments. In refining our co-payment system, we will develop a reference
pricing system which should ensure availability of a low or no cost option for drugs on the
essential list.
In order to evaluate progress in reform implementation, we plan to monitor a variety of indicators
in the sector, including health sector spending as a share of total public spending and GDP, as
well as the relative shares allocated to different levels of care; the share of drug spending by the
public sector and households, and the range of pharmaceuticals openly available on the market;
access to public health facilities by different population groups; out-of-pocket spending, both in
aggregate and on specific elements of health care and by specific social groups; and timelmess
and reliability of data reporting at all levels of the system.
D.   Labor and Employment
Current situation:  The labor market in Serbia is stagnant, with very limited labor and job
flows. Hiring is limited, as attested by the low share of workers with short length of service in
total formal sector emnployment. As a consequence, escaping unemployment and findmg a new
job in the formal sector is very difficult. There is a large discrepancy between the Labor Force
Survey (LFS) and administrative registration data on unemployment.   According to
administrative data, the number of unemployed is about twice as high as LFS data. However,
LFS data are more likely to reflect reality due to various incentives to register - mainly the
availability of pension and health insurance. As a result, a large fraction of the registered
unemployed are not genuinely unemployed, i.e. they either have a job in the informal sector, or
are not actively looking and available for work.
Existing legislation at the Serbian level on unemployment benefits and programs for the
43



unemployed is ill-suited to the emerging challenges of a restructunng economy. The major
problems in existing legislation include: (i) level and duration of unemployment benefits, which
on both counts are very high by regional standards; (ii) the range and relative pnority of different
active programs. The current legislation gives limited guidance for implementation of cost-
effective active labor programs; (iii) other measures to increase incentives for the registered
unemployed to return to work; and (Iv) no possibility for operation of private employment
agencies.
In addition to legislation on the rights of the unemployed, the Government of Serbia approved a
Social Program for Employees Dismissed during Restructurng and Privatization in March 2002.
The 2003 budget has allocated around 7.5 billion dinars for payments under the Program to an
estimated 150,000 dismissed workers in an agreed list of firms, following around 6 billion dinars
allocated in 2002, mainly on severance packages for workers dismissed from state- and socially-
owned enterprises.
Priority reforms:   Given the likely acceleration in economic restructuring, labor and
employment issues remain a high priority for the FRY and Serbian Governments.  The
Government of Serbia's specific short run priorities in this area are the following:
o The Government of Serbia plans to submit to the Serbian Parliament a new Law on
Employment and Insurance in Case of Unemployment. We are committed to several
features in a new Law: (i) revised unemployment benefit entitlements with respect to
duration and level; (ii) inclusion of more cost effective active labor market interventions,
such as job search skill training programs, job clubs, assistance in self employment, and job
fairs; (iii) a more appropriate definition of unemployment, in order to help bring "official"
unemployment levels more into line with survey-based data; (iv) revised rules on obligations
of the unemployed to take work offered by the Labor Market Bureau (LMB) which reduce
the ability of registered unemployed people to refuse work of which they are capable; and
(v) allowing private employment agencies in the delivery of services.
O  With respect to the Social Program (SP), we intend to ensure that fiscal costs are kept under
control in the short run and reduced and eventually discontinued in the medium term. In the
short run, we plan to make the payments under the SP more explicitly linked to specific
benchmarks in the enterprise restructuring and tender prnvatization process, such as adoption
by the Privatization Agency of the enterprise restructuring and privatization programs, in
order to ensure that public resources are spent only on enterprises which are fully committed
to fundamental restructuring and change of ownership.
Medium term reform objectives: The reforms of the Law on Employment, should in the medium
tern, contribute to a LMB which is a more effective tool for assisting the unemployed to re-enter
the workforce. We expect that this will result in a somewhat higher share of LMB spending on
active labor programs, though payment of cash benefits will remain its priority spending item for
the foreseeable future. With respect to the Social Program, it will be important to ensure that it is
clearly time bound, and does not stretch out to the point where it becomes institutionalized and
risks undermining the basic provisions of the Labor Law with respect to dismissal of workers.
We will also need to consider whether benefits under the Program will need to be brought more
closely into line with fiscal capacity and the general labor market. We intend to monitor the labor
market situation closely, through a combination of household and labor force surveys, as well as
more specific evaluations being developed with support from the World Bank and donors.
44



E.   Social and Child Protection
Context: Overall spending on social and child protection in Serbia has been low as a share of
GDP in recent years, at 1.2 percent of GDP in 2001. In addition, spending has not been well
targeted due to overly localized eligibility thresholds and benefit levels which have restricted
access to benefit amongst households in poor areas. Although social and child protection do not
currently constitute sources of fiscal pressure, the Government of Serbia considers that there is
considerable scope for improvements in targeting and administration which can increase their
poverty reduction impact. Such adjustments are also important in light of the likely increased
burden on the Serbian social welfare system in coming years.
Total social assistance expenditures in Serbia, including cash benefits and services, amounted to
0.3 percent of GDP in 2001, which is significantly lower than other countnes in the region. The
main social assistance benefit is the so-called MOP (materialno obezbedjenje porodice), which
has been provided to around 40,000 households until mid-2002. MOP is aimed at individuals and
families whose income is lower than the guaranteed "social security level." This threshold is
fixed by law at a percentage of the average municipal wage, adjusted for the number of family
members. Benefit amounts are indexed to wages and eligibility criteria also include an assets
test. Decentralized eligibility thresholds for social assistance have contributed to low coverage
rates in poorer areas. MOSA has attempted to address this through temporary measures which
provide additional benefits for households which fall between the level of the republican and
municipal average wages. However, this has yet to be incorporated into the mainstream social
assistance system.
A new Serbian Law on Financial Support to Families with Children improves the targeting of the
child protection system, allowing adequate and sustainable benefits for poor households with
children. The Law aims to strengthen support to children through promoting equal benefit access
throughout Serbia, tightening targeting of child allowances, maintaining the real value of support
to poor families, and reducing provision of some duplicative benefits. It is expected to reduce the
number of beneficiaries, and the total amount of expenditures from around 0.7 percent of GDP to
around 0.6 percent of GDP by mid-2003. This is consistent with an overall shift in intra-sectoral
spending from designated family benefits to more broadly targeted social assistance.
Priority reforms: With respect to social assistance, the Government of Serbia plans reforms to
improve its poverty alleviation impact. The reforms of social assistance will proceed in two
phases: first, initial adjustments in cash benefits to improve coverage among the poor; and
second, more systemic reforms of social welfare with a focus on social services in particular.
The Serbian Government's initial reform of social assistance benefits will include the
introduction of a republican eligibility threshold and indexing of benefit levels to the cost of
living. In general, it is expected that the number of welfare beneficianes will increase with these
changes to around 53,000 households, with additional spending also on many existing
beneficiaries. The amendments which we have approved at GOS level will also include increased
protection for people in need of special care in the home, most of them special needs children,
and will promote greater innovation in social services delivery at local level. Implementation of
social service innovations will be supported with budgetary and donor financing under the Social
inovation Fund. The reforms will seek to strike a balance between the need for a benefit of last
resort providing some income support for those in most need, and the need to ensure that
beneficiary numbers remain manageable. In addition to these amendments of social welfare
legislation, we have also recently by GOS decision authorized targeted allowances for eligible
45



households of the poor and disabled who have efficient energy consumption, in order to cushion
the impact of energy price increases.
As noted, the Government of Serbia has also recently legislated improvements in the child
protection system which are a key element of our broader sectoral reforms. Specifically, the
Serbian Parliament has approved:
o  Adoption of a uniform eligibility threshold for child allowances across the Republic,
sigmnficantly increasing the equity of benefit incidence;
o  Strengthening of non-income means-testing to address asset ownership by households;
o  Indexing benefit levels to the cost of living in order to preserve their real value and break
inappropriate linkages to wages;
o  Inclusion of a provision allowing households to apply for assistance as soon as required,
without having to wait for a specific date in the year; and
o  Making means-testing for child allowances universal, independent of household size.
Medium term reform objectives.  Overall, the social welfare sector is one where we expect
spending to increase somewhat as transition progresses, and this has happened already to some
extent. The Government of Serbia is committed to medium term reforms in the social welfare
sector of a more structural nature, in addition to continuing to assess whether the expenditure
balance between social assistance and child protection requires further adjustment. The medium
term reforms would include: (i) evaluating the balance between social services and cash benefits
in the current network; (ii) promoting alternative forms of care for those presently in institutions;
and(iii) reassessing roles and responsibilities of both public and non-governmental actors in the
social welfare sector, with a view to minimizing duplicative services and delivery channels. It
would also involve continuing efforts to provide a clear and sustainable framework for the
operations of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), in particular promoting their partnerships
in social service provision with the public sector. This last measure is supported by work led by
the Serbian Ministry of Justice on the draft Law on Foundations and Associations which we
expect to be submitted to the Serbian Parliament in 2003 and which reflects good European
practice in the NGO field. In addition, we plan to submit to the Serbian Parliament in 2003 a new
Family Law, which should facilitate adoption and promote our broader agenda of
deinstitutionalization. Finally, we are comrmtted to regular monitoring and evaluation of social
welfare benefits and services, specifically targeting effectiveness, poverty alleviation impact of
benefits, access to services, and client perception of service availability and quality.
F.   Poverty Monitoring and Capacity Building
Context: FRY has had a nation-wide household budget survey since 1984. However, the sample
of the survey is outdated, labor market information collected from households is very limited, and
the survey instrument lumps together all non-pension social benefits, limiting its usefulness for
incidence analysis. It also does not recognize inforrnal payments for public services, severely
limiting the accuracy and relevance of data. Even the limited data collected are not used to their
full potential. Access to data has traditionally been limited, and the link between policies and data
analysis rather weak.
Priority Reforms:  We recognize that improved living standards monitoring is critical to
improved social policy development and assessment of program impact. To this end, the
Government of Serbia has implemented durng 2002 a Poverty Survey which has provided us
with an updated and representative poverty profile for Serbia. The questionnaire was designed to
46



allow for the analysis of specific social protection programs, as well as of other policy areas,
including education, health and employment. We have also made the survey results and data set
publicly available. This is to be followed by another round of the survey in 2003 which would
provide information on the dynamics of poverty and allow for more detailed assessment of new
targeting criteria in child protection. In tandem with the survey, we are planning to update our
Household Budget Survey to increase its effectiveness as a poverty monitonng tool. This would
be an important process in institutionalizing the methodological and other improvements which
have been introduced on a one-time basis in the Poverty Survey. Both the survey work and
institutlonalization of improved living standards monitoring are closely linked to the further
design and implementation of our PRSP agenda. The Government of Serbia is also working
closely with the World Bank on a combined quantitative and qualitative assessment of key
stakeholders who are most directly affected by the policy reforms being supported by SOSAC.
IV. Conclusion
It is clear that the above program of social policy reform is ambitious and will require maximum
engagement with and support from all stakeholders within FRY and the Republic of Serbia. The
Government of Serbia has been involving these stakeholders at each stage of the process in
individual sectors, and are coordinating overall social policy development within the framework
of the PRSP now bemg developed. While we do not under-estimate the technical, social and
political challenges of proceeding with a range of social policy reforms in parallel, the urgency of
the needs dictates that we continue to move decisively. The program outlmed in this letter will
help us to balance the need for improving the aggregate fiscal position of the Serbian authorities
with the need to ensure that the poorest and most vulnerable in society are given the social
protection and services within the Government's ability to provide. The FRY and Serbian
Governments take our commitment to these groups seriously, and recognize that the sustainability
of our entire reform program will be determined by our capacity to retain social cohesion and
support for the transformation of the economy and society. The continued support of the World
Bank and the international community will be essential if the FRY and Serbian Governments are
to achieve these ambitious goals.
Miroijub Labus
Deputy Prime Minster and MiniMer for Foreign Ewnomnic Relations
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
4C                C
Priw Minister
olicofIan
BozldsVjl|
Minister of Fbne and Economy
Republic of Seibia
47



Annex 5: Agreed policy matrix for proposed Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC)
[Note - actions in bold are core program supported under Credit].
Area and Objective         Prior actions and first tranche     | Second tranche                    Outcome benchmarks for
2003-2004 (in LDP)
1. Macroeconomic           Maintain adequate macroeconomic framework                               Continue to maintamn sustainable
macroecononmc framework
2. Pensions
o Government of Serbia to approve a   o Enactment by Serbian           New Serbian Pension Law
Undertake systemic reform    new Republican Pension Law           Parliament of new Republican   implemented and pensions spending
of the pension system to     satisfactory to EDA.                 Pension Law satisfactory to IDA.  (excluding arrears clearance) falling as
promote fiscal               [A satisfactory Law would include:                                   share of GDP and Government
sustainability, closer links  o retaming mandatory participation of  o Adequate progress on reduction in  spending.
between contributions and    farmers;                             pension arrears.
benefits, and greater     o leigthening work history to entire
admimstrative efficiency     career used to calculate pensions in the  o Submit draft Law on Voluntary  Voluntary Pension Funds Law adopted
and transparency.            new point formula;                   Pension Funds to the Serbian    and existing and future private pension
o introduction of a new pension formula  Parliament which is satisfactory to  funds being licensed and regulated
based on mdividual points;           IDA.                            according to its terms.
o reducmg temporary disability
benefits, and tightening eligibility for  o Government of Serbia to approve a  Adequate progress on implementation
general disability;                  program to consolidate the three  of approved plan to consolidate three
o incorporatmg prior reforms in Federal  pension funds which is satisfactory  civilian pension funds.
pensions legislation, including normal  to IDA.
pension age increase and mixed
price/wage indexation.]
48



3. Payroll tax revenues
and budgetary
management of EBFs
Promotmg greater efficiency  * Government of Serbia to appoint  o Enactment by Serbian           Social insurance contributions for
and transparency in tax      working group to develop Law on      Parliament of Law on Social    different categories of contributors
admnistration, including     Social Insurance Contributions with  Insurance Contributions which is  being calculated and paid on
reducing compliance burden   agreed policy principles satisfactory  satisfactory to IDA.         harmonized basis under new Law.
on employers                 to IDA                             [Satisfactory Law would: (i)     Non-wage labor income subject to
on ernployers  to IDA.      harmonize contribution bases for  payroll taxation.
Promotmng roll-out of public  * Serbian Mistry of Finance and   social contributions; (ii) expand
expenditure management        Economy to approve a Ministerial  contribution base to non-wage labor  Finalize 2004 budget in accordance
reforms into EBFs to promote  deiint eur      umsso of          icome; and (iii) express minimum  with LOBS standards and procedures,
transparency at all stages of  decision to require subnission of  contribution bases relative to average  and based on credible MTEF for each
budget cycle.                 reports on social contributions to the  wage].                      of the social funds.
Public Revenue Agency.
Regular internal and external audits
* Begin preparation of 2004 draft  being conducted on EBFs.
budget for EBFs in accordance
* Initiate implementation of 2003      with calendar established in Law
budgets of Pension and Health Funds  on Budget Systems and based on
based on GFS classification.         medium-term framework
developed by MOFE.
* Audit procedures in addition to
BIAS introduced in Health and
Pension Funds.
4. Social Welfare
Promotmg cash benefits for  * Enactment by Serbian Parliament   * Enactment by Serbian           Total spendmg on social welfare does
the poor which are better    of Law on Financial Support to       Parliament of amendments to    not decrease m 2003 as share of
targeted, and provide a more  Families with Children satisfactory  the Law on Welfare and        Government spendmg, with mcrease in
effective and reliable safety  to IDA.                            Providing Social Security to   social assistance spending.
net within available                                              Citizens satisfactory to IDA.
resources.                    (Satisfactory would include: (X)  _MOSA to develop new Law on
49



resources.                    eligibility thresholds indexed to cost                               Welfare for more comnprehensive
of living rather than wages; (ii)                                   reform of sector, including
additional asset tests introduced in                                administration, social services and
means-testing for benefits; (iii) option                             institutional/altemative care.
to apply for assistance as soon as
required without having to wait for a                                Serbian Parliament to adopt new Law
specific date in the year; (iv)                                     on Associations and Foundations
additional rights for especially                                    (NGO Law) which would provide clear
vulnerable groups; and (v) indexing                                  and financially sustainable framework
benefits to cost of living.).                                        for operation of domestic and foreign
NGOs, including promoting
o Submission to Serbian Parliament of                                  partnerships with public sector.
amendments to the Law on Welfare
and Providing Social Security to
Citizens satisfactory to IDA.
(Satisfactory would include (i)
uniform eligibility threshold for SA;
(ii) indexing benefits to cost of living;
and (iii) increasing benefit level of
carers' allowance for disabled.)
5. Benefits and programs
for the unemploved and
dismissed workers
Mitigating the social impact
of unemployment and            o Submission to Serbian          o Enactment by Serbian
enterprise restructurmg while    Parliament of Law on              Parliament of Law on            New Serbian Law on Employment
respecting fiscal constraints    Employment and Insurance in       Employment and Insurance in     under implementation, including more
and providmg incentives to       Case of Unemployment              Case of Unemployment            cost-effective mix of active programs
re-enter employment.             satisfactory to IlDA. (including: (i)  satisfactory to IDA.       in force and unemployment benefits
revised unemployment benefit                                      being paid in full on timely basis.
entitlements with respect to    o Explicit benchmarks agreed for
duration and level; (ii) inclusion of  access by enterprises to Social  Social Program budget for 2003 clearly
more cost effective active labor  Program funds.                  defined in budget, with clear
market interventions; (ii)                                        identification of eligible enterprises
appropriate definition of                                        I and triggers for access to SP funds.
50



unemployment; (iv) revised rules
on obhgations of unemployed to
take work offered or participate in
employment programs offered by
LMB; and (v) allows delivery of
employment services by private
providers.
6. Povertv and living
standards monitoring
Improving living standards
monitonng in order to      * Completion of representative LSMS-  *  Household budget survey using  HBS bemg conducted on regular basis
provide policy makers and     style household survey, satisfactory  revised sarnple and instrument  by Serbian Statistical Institute, with
others with reliable          analysis done and data sets made      bemg implemented by Serbian    adequate budget provision and ongoing
mformation on poverty and     publicly available.                   Statistical Institute.        training of SSI staff mn survey
the mcidence and impact of                                                                         implementation and analysis.
public programs.
Labor force survey being conducted on
regular basis using ILO definition of
unemployment.
7. Health
*   Draft Law on Medicinal Products  e Serbian Parliament to adopt new  Serbian companies can export and
Stabilize the finances and      to be approved by Government of    Law on Medicinal Products       foreign companies import drugs
irnprove the efficiency and     Serbia which is satisfactory to    satisfactory to IDA.            without unnecessary impediments.
quality of the health care     IDA.
system.                    [Satisfactory law would include: (i)                                    Drug Agency established, staffed and
compliant with EU standards; (ii)  * Operational-guidelines approved  functioning.
establish independent Drugs Agency   by MOH for implementation of
with identified financing sources; (iii)  pharmaceuticals, medical   Serbia paying prices for non-patent
licensing mechamsms m place for      equipment and supplies under the  drugs and medical supplies in hne with
drug distribution; and (iv) adequate  new Law on Public Procurement.  prices achieved in competitive
quality control and mspection                                        international bidding by international
procedures].                                                         drug procurement agencies.
51



Clarify and stabilize the  o Serbian MOFE, HIF and MOH to       o Transfer for identified vulnerable  Budget transfers and inter-fund
financing base of the HIF.    approve agreed list and numbers of   groups being made from budget to  transfers contmue to be made in full
vulnerable groups eligible for       HIF in full and timely manner.  and on time for all non-earners,
financing of health contributions                                    uninsured and vulnerable groups at
from budget, define per capita     o Government of Serbia to        rates which reflect average
contribution and allocate in 2003    approve HIF/MOH decree          expenditure.
budget.                              reducing co-payment exemptions
significantly, and adopt measures  HIF and publicly-owned health
to improve collection and      institutions eliminate debts to private
enforcement.                   financial institutions and arrears to
private sector suppliers are in line with
o MOH to produce consolidated     contractual terms for maximum
statement of accumulated payables  payment period.
and receivables of HIF and state-
owned healthcare institutions, and
make provision for annual updates.
Initiate strategic planning for  oTOR and timetable for Health Facilities  o Serbian Health Planning  Health Facihties Restructuring Master
major structural reforns of  Restructuring Master Plan for Serbia  Standards and Guidelines        Plan for Serbia approved and
the health delivery system   and guidelines for developing         approved by Serbian MOH1 as     implementation initiated to reduce
restructuring proposals approved by   basis for elaboration of health  excess hospital beds/facilities and
MOH and acceptable to IDA.            facilities restructuring Master  staff.
o Implementation plan for republican    Plan which are satisfactory to
Health Information System standards  IDA.                             Health Information System Standards
and national databases approved by                                   Master Plan for Serbia approved.
MOH satisfactory to IDA.
[Satisfactory to include standards that
enable consistent national data to be
collected and data to be exchanged
between systems.]
52



Annex 6: Additional monitoring indicators for medium term SOSAC program
Area         Indicators/monitoring benchmarks
Pensions         * Pensions spending as share of GDP and total public spending.
* Stock of outstanding pension arrears.
* Flow of new arrears in fiscal year.
* Share of pensioner-headed households living below poverty line.
Payroll tax      * Compliance rates on social contributions.
reform and       * Number of public institutions to which employers must make regular tax
EBF               and/or social contribution reporting.
budgetary        * Timeliness of reporting on social contnbutions from employers.
management       * Regularity of intemal and/or extemal audits on health and pension funds.
Social and       * Number of household and individual beneficiaries of social and child
child             protection cash benefits and services.
protection       * Total public spending on social welfare benefits and programs as share of
GDP and total public spending.
* Level of benefits m social welfare programs relative to cost of living
benchmark(s).
* Share of beneficiary households below poverty Ine.
Labor and        * Total registered and ILO-compliant unemployment rate.
employment       * Share of long-term unemployed (more than 1 and more than 2 years).
* Total public spending on active and passive programs for the unemployed as
share of GDP and total public spending.
* Annual rate of re-entry into workforce for registered unemployment.
* Total public spending on Social Program and data on number of enterprises
and redundant employees benefiting from Program funding.
Health           * Total health sector public spending as share of GDP and total public spending.
* Allocation of public spending by level of care (primary, secondary, tertiary).
* Share of drug spending in public spendmg on health, and in household
consumption.
* Share of population with co-payment exemptions and data on their poverty
status.
*Number of new drugs licensed.
' Average out-of-pocket spending on health care by households as share of
average household consumption.
Living           * Frequency of representative household budget surveys.
standards        * Aggregate poverty rate and disaggregation by social categories and
monitoring        geographical regions.
Gini coefficient and income decile ratio.
. Use of households survey results in policy development by line ministries and
Government.
53



Annex 7: SAM and Serbia's PRSP process and the SOSAC
1.   The SAM PPRSP process. The PRSP process in SAM was initiated in April 2002. Interim
PRSPs for SAM and its constituent member states Serbia and Montenegro were reviewed by the
Board in August 2002, together with the TSS Update. The Serbian strategy focuses on improved
growth prospects and enhanced private sector development, improved social targeting, and
addressing problems with labor redundancy and unemployment. The Montenegrin strategy
emphasizes maintenance of a stable macroeconomnc framework, addressmng problems of the
"gray" economy, improved targeting of social programs, and further enterprise restructuring and
private sector development. Both teams are working towards completion of full PRSPs in the
summer of 2003 (Serbia) and late fall 2003 (Montenegro).
2.     The Serbian PRSP process is moving ahead well, and benefits from significant
Government ownership and vision under the leadership of Minister of Social Affairs. Recent
poverty survey results have been analyzed (with considerable Bank support) and the Government
has made significant progress in institutionalizing a team to oversee and mainstream the PRSP
development process. UNDP and the Catholic Relief Service (CRS) have, at the Government's
request, taken the lead on advancing the consultation process and NGO liaison. DFID has
provided substantial start-up funding.
3.    In Montenegro, the Government is making efforts to advance the process but there are
serious capacity and funding constraints. The Montenegrin PRSP process has received significant
initial support from the UN system (with UNDP Montenegro playing a large role in sustaining
momentum) and DFID has recently also provided substantial funding. A proposal for both Serbia
and Montenegro the Bank administered Multi-Donor Trust Fund (MDTF) has been developed. As
in Serbia, UNDP-CRS are also facilitating the consultative process. Despite these advances,
PRSP development in Montenegro is complex and it is important that all involved ensure that the
process be tailored to local capacity and conditions and that expectations are kept realistic.
4.     The governments of SAM and the constituent member states Serbia and Montenegro are
aware that timely development of a full PRSP requires more work to strengthen data, develop
coherent anti-poverty sectoral strategies, understand further the roots of poverty, define priorities,
further analyze the poverty implications and fiscal costs of vanous policy options, and build
consensus among key stakeholders for implementing the strategy. The full PRSP will be based on
a three-year macroeconomic framework, supported through an IMF Extended Arrangement, and
includes policy actions and structural reforms to be undertaken each year to promote growth and
reduce poverty in a stable macroeconomic environment. As noted in the Joint Staff Assessment,
the preparation of the full PRSP should also provide an analysis of the poverty impact of social
and productive sector programs, as well as lay the ground for better public expenditure
management. The full PRSP is also expected to provide clear indicators for monitoring progress
in the implementation of the overall poverty reduction strategy. This is an ambitious program
will continue to require strong ownership in both member states and sustained donor assistance.
5.     The Serbian I-PRSP and linkages with SOSAC agenda: There are close linkages
between the policy agenda outlined in the I-PRSP for Serbia and the SOSAC-supported policy
agenda. The linkage is driven in significant measure by having the Ministry of Social Affairs as
the pnmary policy counterpart for both exercises. The I-PRSP and SOSAC are closely aligned,
both at the broad policy level, and at the level of specific reforms proposed for the sectors
addressed under SOSAC. At the broad policy level, the I-PRSP stresses the following directions
54



and issues, all of which are either directly supported under SOSAC or consistent with the
program:
*  The Govemment of Serbia (GOS) recognises that poverty is a multidimensional economic,
social and political phenomenon which crucially depends on incomes and employment
opportunities, as well as social inclusion, access to education, health and other public
services. Participation in social and political processes, protection of human rights, gender
and ethnic equality are essential dimensions of a wider poverty definition. With such broad
definition and limited resources, the choice of priorities and the design of effective and
targeted public actions are critical m reaching the necessary balance between shorter term and
longer term needs and challenges.
* The GOS is committed to restoring strong and sustainable economic growth with equity. As a
result, the I-PRSP for Serbia places strong emphasis on how development and economic
growth should be promoted and directed to ensure that the poor and the near-poor gain full
access to economic opportunitbes and participate fully in the distnbution of the anticipated
benefits from future economic development.
*  The overall share of public spending in GDP needs to come down in the medium tern. In
order to achieve this, the GOS will overhaul expenditures on subsidies, the civil service,
pensions, healthcare and other social programs. At the same time, the I-PRSP also
acknowledges that transition will likely impose increased costs in the short to medium term
on spending that mitigates the social impact of restructuring and transitional reforms. On the
revenue side, the I-PRSP commits the GOS to improvements in tax administration and
ongoing reform to lower the burden of taxation.
* The I-PRSP acknowledges problems with existing data and monitoring of living standards in
Serbia, and commits to improving this significantly, initially through a new Committee for
Monitonng the Standard of Living of the Population formed in 2002.
6.    In addition to the above general themes of the I-PRSP, the strategy also outlines the
following specific sectoral reforms which are supported under the SOSAC agenda:
* in the health sector: (i) health finance reforms; (ii) reforms of drugs policy; (iii) promoting a
more rational health services delivery network and adjusting staffing patterns in line with the
reformed network; and (iv) ensuring continued access to services for vulnerable groups.
*  m social protection: (i) reforms of child protection and social assistance; (ii) major overhaul
of the PAYG pensions system, both in terms of entitlements and promoting more effective
systemic solutions on the revenue compliance side; and (iii) ongoing reforms of social
welfare services, including promotmg deinstitutionalization and increasing community-based
care.
* in the labor area, the Strategy focuses on ensuring that the social impact of enterprise
restructuring is dealt with in a manner that balances social protection, employment
promotion, and fiscal consolidation objectives.
55



Annex 8: Poverty in Serbia and Montenegro
I.     Poverty rates: In Serbia, the latest available statistics, coming from the Poverty Survey
conducted in early Summer 2002, indicate that approximately twenty percent of the Serbian
population lived either in poverty or at the edge of poverty - consuming less than US $90 per
month per "average" person, of which half or 10.6 percent of the population, consumed less than
US $70. In Montenegro, according to data from Household Survey conducted in the Fall 2002,.
poverty also affects a sizeable segment of the population: 10 percent of the population live below
the poverty line (i.e. Euro 100 monthly consumption per person). Moreover, about one quarter of
households spent more than 60 percent of their resources on food.
2.     Poverty Characteristics:  Poverty in the member states of Serbia and Montenegro has
several common features:
o  Lack of Employment:  Families with unemployed heads were particularly susceptible to
the threat of poverty, having in both member states at least tnple the poverty risk
compared to those in employment.
o  Regional Differences Are Stark: New household surveys for the first time provide data
to evaluate regional risks of poverty. They reveal very significant regional differences: in
less affluent regions of Serbia, poverty is two times higher than in the capital. In
Montenegro, the less developed North is also twice as poor as the richer Center. Poverty
goes hand in hand with significant regional differences in employment opportunities.
The rural population, as elsewhere in the region, is significantly poorer than urban
dwellers.
o  Poverty Has a Clear Age Pattern: With weak social safety nets, old people are faced
with the highest risk of falling below the poverty line. The next poorest group is children
of school age.
o  Family Size Matters: Large families (with 3 or more children) are faced with a higher
likelihood (by 50 percent at least) of falling below poverty line, and they were much
more susceptible to declining quality of education and health services.
o Education Level is a Very Strong Correlate of Poverty: People with low education levels
were restricted to low paying industrial jobs, informal employment, or inactivity. On top
of being paid lower wages, people with lower skills faced a much greater probability of
losing their jobs during company restructuring and/or privatization.
o  Gender is a relevant poverty issue. Households headed by women have higher risk of
falling below the poverty threshold.
3.     Poverty causes: Poverty is due to low incomes, high inequality or both. Inequality m
Serbia and Montenegro is relatively moderate by transition economy standards. Thus the key
reason for poverty are low incomes. Earnings are the key for poverty. What matters is not
simply the lack of employment - people have to work often just to make a living - but how much
it pays to be employed. A very high 29 percent of the employed in Serbia have their principle
employment in gray economy. People employed in the mformal sector are often unskilled,
receive wages that barely put then above the poverty line, and are faced with a danger of falling
into abject poverty in the event of illness or disability.
56



Annex 9: Country At a Glance
Serbia and Montenegro (SAM)
7 :-               Ld"~~L w r- 
POVERTY.and SOCIAL            - -            S       Cantrai - middl-lcllo-
-  ,^f  - 5,. ,FAata inlaELc, omal  Dre.lopmenl dlamond'
2001                                                 . _    -,                                              -
CoOiJlanoJn mld.ye3r*~ lirrnliiitflS7) r. - .-.  lOB  ' 1 0'B.-75 " -;; 2 i6B4     Lle eipectanc_
GNP orcatl - Ari ',rriet melfloo:SStSS ,1'- -. ,69R,- -: 1,960 - 1 2400
GNP (Alias io1.S$ birlrfs) - -   -l09                   93.0; -  2067 7
A.erago annural growlh, 1995-0` _- -  .   -           -                                                    i
PoLuDal,lon (16b                                     T --,  O5L. -  u -  - 12
LaDor force                                                M%, bu-a .................  _ 2I Gns
Most recent e atelaester avlabl 1905-01t                                 C 'nmarm
Do,erht 1% rof oopu'ahon oi.lobr r  Ol po,eyj l,re5 ,:
.irtian populason  % i'Ol1pO  --. -  ''                  63-      4d
L-e euoxp6ani:V'al 011thn ile                         569       6H
:ntant monalf (er 000 liebisl-~.----  - -  - -   13 --            3320t  -
Cinunmar,-rutntolv -(nGof children uJnder 6)-                                Acces-2-_s 'o 14 IO arovDr wBoater source i
Access to an rrmpovred aaeisource i% otpopREnuoni  '. I  z-.      B_
rerrisy {olpo0.laldng5 l.I    ikS_-       ~   w   5-     83. t*o.:!.
Gross pnnmaru anroilmeni (& oftschool-,agapopuiar/on)t5 -,  u2^,  to0-         SeLna anSao ovorenagro (SAMI  
Male                                                                          L a,"-,ddAu -  107  LO.r.m.de4noIn6egri
Fe  e  -=                 --     -. . ---,                      10      -       -- --- 
KEY ECONOMI1C RATIOS and LONNG TERLTRENb3S. -  5          .         Lr
-2f000 ~~-20011
GOPr fc,sI bulanls)  - Gi  t991 -.   -.  0,=001  e  Economic ratlos'
GDP fru   35    J,loSsDsUrr;I                      ' ;l26'      1 
Groussdomstic uislmAnt,l.OP_IZ -5~                      t42.n    136                  Traae
B  ~~~ f hgr- -dr--  G gl= g = ~~~~~ orn_ --';:' 2~~~9 6>  '23 7 -     Te.
Gross aomeoc tangGP            -e-  .-2
-rrosn nationalias1ngGD  **;                            1C3_   t:91  '
&Z~~~~~~~~~.                        *      Donf-essc     -          nsir
interest pacmentsIGOPaiGP- 2 i  -     - --g-
Total ae6uG DP   -                                                      sa 5  - 10 4;
Toldeolaserslc ,eaoos 2  -    --                         23      39
Pesent I alue_ot OnOthir GOrP  --;r ... r: r -,  -7_ j:' - -f i a,_  sr 
P18bera wa;ue  rv etfai,PogirtrS _- Z--,  .4 - -A _ - 
- r      -ei-O -1991-01S:   2000i    2001   2001.05 -
faluersgei anniuaLgnrO1i-va2 J c  ,  . ~''E i- * r~a %F: -:
ZDP             -                               60s    >_ B;y rx-m - 3  w-5 ' 46- S4 iaSadr e ManMenegnegfiSAMl_
GDP orcr raDlai sina -  T 4n 7            .i p;  i g :.;4-F-54"  jz42           Lor--m dadle-noome group
Emportvsolgoorvsanid6sl-ces  __                             . -: ,                                  -.1  -  _ _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981    loas     2000     2001    Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agtriculture                                   10 1     17 6             20-
Industry        -43 1                                   37Mauatrig11 16        wi0a          t     o   5
Manufacturing                                                                SS   tn     s   a      oo o
Services                                       46 8     44 8            -20
Private consumption                                    86 3      89 8   -40
General government consumption                          17 4     174                  GDI 4      GDP
Imports ot goods and services                           46 S     44 8GI
1961-91  1991-01   2000     2001    Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                             -20 0     25 0   *0 
Industry                                                10 9      0 0   20         (1
Manufacturing                                                                                     o 
Services                                                                -2;0   96 aa9a7  aa       oo   01
Pnvate consumption                                      19 3     140 o  40 +
General govemment consumption                          -24 5      61    0
Gross domestic investmenl                               17 0      9 2               Exports  -tImports
Imports of goods and services 3/                        13 1     28 8
Note 2001 data are preliminary esUmates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared vwth is Income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
I/ SAM estimate for 2000, excludes Kosovo and is calculated using the market exch rate 2/ On a cash basis 3/ In dollar terms
57



Serbia and Montene.Zro (SAM)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991       2000      2001      Inttatlon(%)
Domestfc prfceslo
Consumer puices                                                    718       91.1
Impliat GDP deflator                                               76 8      917 7
Government finance
(6 of GDnP,idudes current grants)                                                       o
Currentrevenue 4/                                 .        .       375       396                     07 w   0     90    00    0I
Current budget balance                                              3 0       1 0                   GDP deltaowr   O   CPt
Overall surplus/defidl                            .        .        -0 2      -0 6
TRADE
(USS m0/on,s)                                 1981      1991       2000      2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Tota exports (fob)                                                1,923     2,003     ns
Food                                                                        297      s
Other ftuel                                              ..          .       50
Manufactures                                     .        .                 694
Total imports (fob) 5/                                            3.711     4.838      o00
Food                                                      .552                       2000 )
Fuel end energy                                                           51032      1         r00
Capital goods                                   ..                         1.012        o          .       00   00         01
Export price Index (1995=100)
Importilce Index (1995100)                       .                    .oesd,e                                   DImPnt
Terms o trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS ms;fions)                                1981      1991       2000      2001      Currentaccount balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and servces                      ..       .      Z547      2.743      o
Irnports of goods and servces                     .         .     4,004     5.160     .1 . 5    so   w7     a
Resource balance                                  .               -1.457    -2,417    .2
-3-
Net incme                                                  .         -1       -26       . .JJ
Net cuarent transfers                                             1,119     1,915
Current account balance                                    .       -339      -528
Finandng Items (net)                                                566     1.051                                _
Changes In net reserves 6/                        .         .      -227      -523       .
Mbem.o:
Reserves indcuding gold (USSm*tirfns)                      .        516     1.169
Conversion rate (DEC. localUSS)                            .       44 4      66 7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991       2000      2001
(USS mi/gins)                                                                          CompoosUlon of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Totat debt outstanding and disbursed                             11,407    11.741
IBRD 7/                                                         1812      1.840                  G o0r2e       X 1,e40
IDA                                             .         .         0         0
Total debt seMce                                                     56       107                     ;    ;    \
IBRDit     ne rs    e                                                                               i                  272
Composation of net resoun x flows                                                        F 3.396
Offlcia grants                                  .                 271       591                   .
Oftfal creditors                                *                 377       333
Pnvate creditors                                                   49       202                               Ow!.
Foreign diredct Investment                                         25       165
Portfolio equity                                         ..         0         0                                E 4,610
Wotid Bank program
Conmitrnents                                                        0         0      A - eRoD                     E - eitJero
Disbursements                                   .        .          0         0      B-IDA     D0-0&w muitHaterat  F- Pf ate
Pnrncipal repayments                                                0         0      C - iMF                      G - Sfotrerm
Net flows                                       .                   0         0
Interest payments                                                   0         0
Net transfers                                   .                   0         0
Development Economics                                                                                                     3/11/03
4/indudes current grants S5 Breakdown is prelirmnary WB staff estimate 6i Exdudes IMF net repurchases
7/ Indudes Interest afears and penalty interest
58



Annex 10: Fund Relations Note
International Monetary Fund
700 19th Street, NW
Washington, D. C. 20431 USA
Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 02/56
May 13, 2002
Serbia and Montenegro: Public Information Notice
On May 13, 2002, the Executive Board of the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the
Article IV consultation with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SerbialMontenegro).34
Background
The government that came to power in late 2000-after ten years of regional conflict,
mtemational isolation, and economic mismanagement-inherited exceptionally difficult starting
conditions. Output stood at less than half its 1989 level; inflation exceeded 100 percent;
confidence in the financial system had been decimated; the country's mnfrastructure was in
disrepair; the enterprise and banking sectors were both deeply insolvent and isolated from the
outside world; and external debt, mostly in arrears, had risen to the equivalent of 140 percent of
GDP.
With the strong support of the intemational community, the authorities have been able to take
major steps toward stabilizing and reforming the economy. Twelve-month inflation has come
down sharply from 113 percent at end-2000 to 23 percent in April 2002. Real GDP rose further
by an estimated 51/2 percent in 2001, but remained about one-half of its 1989 level. GDP growth is
attributed to a rebound in agricultural output after the previous year's drought, and increasing
activity in services. Industrial production has been stagnant, reflecting capacity constraints after
years of disinvestment and the ongoing economic restructuring. The overall balance of payments
improved, as a large increase in the current account deficit was comfortably financed by foreign
assistance and pnvate capital inflows. The official foreign exchange reserves reached US$1.6
billion at end-April 2002 (2 months of imports), up from US$0.5 billion at end-2000.
The macroeconomic policies underlying these improvements have emphasized strict linmts on
bank credit and wage restraint in the public sector. The fiscal deficit was 1.3 percent of GDP in
2001, against a target of 6.1 percent, with borrowing from the banking system limited to
0.7 percent of GDP. The fiscal over-performance is explained by higher-than-budgeted revenue
(P 3/4percent of GDP) and a compression of spendmg (3 percent of GDP, primarily foregone
public investment) in response to delays in foreign financing and privatization proceeds. Revenue
collections benefited from a major simplification of the tax system and curtailment of tax evasion
by fighting corruption and smuggling. Wage bills in the public sector were kept broadly
unchanged in real terms. Growth in the Net Domestic Assets of the National Bank of Yugoslavia
(NBY) dunng 2001 was limited to 2 percent of end-2000 reserve money. Large foreign exchange
mflows accounted for an almost 90 percent increase in reserve money, in an environment of
3 Under Article IV of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with members,
usually every year. This PrN summarizes the views of the Executive Board as expressed dunng the
May 13, 2002 Executive Board discussion based on the staff report.
59



declining inflation and market interest rates, apparently reflecting a stronger demand for dinars.
Against the background of a persisting balance-of-payments surplus, the NBY has kept the
exchange rate of the dinar broadly unchanged against the euro since the adoption of a managed
float at the beginning of 2001. The resulting real appreciation of the dinar has restored its real
value close to the level reached in 1997-98 (a sanctions-free penod when exports had reached a
peak level).
Macroeconomic policies were complemented by equally impressive progress in structural reform,
with technical assistance from the IMF and the World Bank. Soon after coming to power, the new
authorities in Belgrade freed most prices with the exception of public utilities; unified a system of
multiple exchange rates; abolished most import quotas and lowered average import tanffs to
under 10 percent; simplified the tax system and improved the transparency of the budgetary
accounts; and substantially liberalized employment contracts and wage determination. In
addition, legal and institutional frameworks for bank restructuring and enterprise pnvatization
were put in place, allowing important progress m this area. In Montenegro-where reforms were
initiated m 1999 with the support of bilateral donors-the authorities focused on fiscal reforms
and privatization through a Mass Voucher Scheme.
The strengthened performance also reflected the intemational community's support of the SAM
through foreign assistance and debt relief. Grant and loan disbursements amounted to US$8
million (8 percent of GDP) in 2001 compared with US$3 million in 2000. In November 2001,
agreement was reached on restructuring Paris Club debt, involvmg a two-phase 66-percent write-
off. The first phase (51 percent) is to enter mto force with the approval of the Extended
Arrangement (EA), while the second phase (the remaining 15 percent) will become effective
upon successful completion of the EA. Debt restructuring negotiations with other official bilateral
and London Club creditors are underway.
Executive Board Assessment
Directors commended the SAM authorities for the impressive achievements in stabilization and
reform since late 2000, when the SAM succeeded to membership in the Fund. Directors noted,
however, the daunting challenges that lie ahead, reflecting the exceptionally difficult starting
conditions. They stressed the need for sustained policy implementation under the medium-term
program supported by the Extended Arrangement, if the SAM is to remain on a path toward
durable growth and external viability. The authorities' demonstrated commitment to reform
augurs well for progress towards achieving these objectives. Directors also called on the
authorities to continue to improve transparency and governance in all government institutions as a
necessary precondition for improving the investment and business climate.
Directors noted that macroeconomic policies have been prudent, with fiscal and wage restraint
underpinning a monetary policy geared to lowering inflation. They welcomed the improvement in
tax collection stemming from wide-ranging tax reforns and the prompt contaimment of
government spending in response to delays in foreign financing and privatization receipts. They
welcomed the improvement in the fiscal position in Montenegro, after some slippage in the first
half of 2001.
Directors commended the expeditious implementation of key structural reforms, in particular the
streamlining of the price, exchange, trade, and tax regimes; the liberalization of the labor market;
and the establishment of new legal and institutional frameworks to guide the restructunng of the
60



economy. These measures had paved the way for successful pnvatization of several large
companies and cleaning up of the banking system through closure of four large msolvent banks.
Directors considered that the authonties' medium-tenm fiscal policy framework is consistent with
achieving lower inflation and fiscal sustainability, while providing for critical restructuring and
investment needs. They noted that the risks related to macroeconomic uncertainties and the
challenges of reform could be addressed through prudence and vigilance in policy
implementation to safeguard the inflation and external objectives. A strict wage policy will be
important in this regard. Directors were concerned that the budget relied heavily on financing
from privatization receipts and cautioned the authonties against using the central bank as a source
of deficit financing.
Directors stressed that it will be important, for fiscal sustainabihty, to improve tax administration
and streamline expenditure, by containing current spending through improved efficiency in the
delivery of services and better targeting of benefits. In this regard, they welcomed the pension
reform adopted recently in Serbia and the plans to adopt similar reforms in Montenegro.
Against the background of a continuing real appreciation of the dinar, Directors endorsed the
NBY's intention to monitor developments in the foreign exchange market closely, and to keep
exchange rate policy under close review in light of export and wage developments. They
welcomed the further liberalization of the exchange system, which will pave the way for the
acceptance by the SAM of obligations under Article VIII, section 2, 3, and 4, and envisaged a
positive impact on the transparency and efficiency of the foreign exchange market. Directors also
encouraged the authorities to strengthen the independence of the central bank.
Directors called on the SAM to put in place adequate anti-money laundering legislation and all
necessary measures to combat the financing of terronsm.
Directors stressed that enterprise and bank reform, as well as an improved business environment,
will be critical to foster private sector-led growth. The task of restructuring the decapitalized and
overstaffed enterprise sector will be challenging, especially in light of limited fiscal resources to
mitigate the restructuring costs. With the bulk of insolvency removed from the financial sector,
development of an efficient banking system will hinge on the strengthening of banking
supervision and on privatizing the remaining state-owned banks.
Directors welcomed the recent agreement between the federal and republican authontles on a
plan for a new constitutional framework, which should provide a basis for normalizing relations
between Serbia and Montenegro, streamlining joint institutions, and strengthening the custom and
tax systems.
Directors emphasized that, in light of initial conditions, the medium-term economnc outlook
remains challenging, leaving little room for maneuver. The authorities must therefore persevere
with reforms while the international community should remain supportive throughout the
intensive medium-term restructuring effort. In this respect, Directors noted possible risks to the
achievement of debt sustainability over the medium terrn.
For questions please contact Mr. Emmanuel Zervoudakis, Assistant Director, European I
Department, IMF, tel. no.: 202-623-8814.
61






IBRD 31 506R
1   8             1 X 9 N20        20 J              2 1               2 2 0             2 30
HUN ARY                                                        SERBIA AND
Arcs     MONTENEGRO
460       Mohacs                                                              EUROPEAN HIGHWAYS   460
<  .J  t  XBcickcl \\ Sent35  g >   A        _   OTHER CLASS I HIGHWAYS
tou;; TimiparH                                                r     o +   AIRPORTS
hn  G-J)                              ~~~~~~~~~~~0 TOWNS
.  V  Ku  S                                         REPUBIC OR PROVINCE CAPITALS
CROA      A                           me     leemein                      -   PROVINCEBaOUNDARIES
Vlnkovc; o;. ~BackE,  C    Zcn            <               -* REPUBUC BOUNDARY
VnoINT -                                                          -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
450-
BOSNIAA  ;                 NIA~~~ROANI
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
HERZEGOVINA                                           VePIllaSt.  I  IpL INIP<
|  WJ      /              -              k       f I  J
R,.t,:, k.;,o.' cD2kn ;.- -...,oo~:.... 5.atc.- fid , 1 n .oc1. ...d. I !  CVD  A  ro,  2,0    A RI A10
FEBRUARY 2003









Report No.:        25668  YU
Type:     PAD



