                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 32320




                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (IDA-37500)

                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 60.4 MILLION (US$80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                              SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                                       FOR A

                     SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SERBIA)




                                     June 16, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective May 12, 2005)

                        Currency Unit = Serbian Dinar (CSD)
                              CSD 1 = US$ 0.02
                               US$ 1 = CSD 62.76

                             FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1    December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum
EAR      European Agency for Reconstruction
EBF      Extra Budgetary Funds
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOS      Government of Serbia
HBS      Household Budget Survey
HIF      Health Insurance Fund
HIS      Health Information System
MOH      Ministry of Health
MTEF     Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NES      National Employment Service
PDPL     Programmatic Development Policy Loan
PEIR     Public Expenditure and Institutional Review
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC-1    Structural Adjustment Credit 1
SCCPARP  Serbia Consolidated Collection and Pension Administration Reform Project
SLSS     Serbia Living Standards Survey
SOSAC    Social Sector Adjustment Credit
SPEAG    Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant
TSSU     Transitional Support Strategy Update



                      Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                   Country Director:      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                     Sector Director:     Charles Griffin
                    Sector Manager:       Hermann A. von Gersdorff
                 Task Team Leader:        Mamta Murthi

                               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
                  SOCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (SERBIA)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       14

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P078390                                                  Project Name: SOSAC (SERBIA)
Team Leader: Mamta Murthi                                            TL Unit: ECAVP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 20, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOSAC (SERBIA)                                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-37500
   Country/Department: SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (40%); Other
                            social services (30%); Health (20%); Central government
                            administration (10%)
                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Improving labor markets (P); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Health
                            system performance (S); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/16/2002                                     Effective: 06/23/2003                06/23/2003
     Appraisal: 12/02/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 04/22/2003                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SERBIA & MONTENEGRO/MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
                                           ECONOMIC RELATIONS (MFER)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Hermann A. Von Gersdorff                       Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:             Mamta Murthi                                   Philip B. O'Keefe
ICR Primary Author:             Christian Bodewig


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the Social Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC) was to support the Government of
Serbia (GOS) in the preparation and implementation of key first generation reforms in social protection,
labor and health, in order to render the systems more fiscally sustainable while continuing to provide core
benefits and services to the population and the poorest in particular. The two overarching objectives were
to: (i) reduce short and medium term fiscal pressures from social programs through a combination of
entitlement reform and efficiency improvements in the social sectors; and (ii) maximize the poverty
alleviation impact of public spending through improved targeting and sustained access for the poor to cash
benefits and services, including health and social welfare. An additional objective of the operation was
improved transparency and accountability in the management of public funds in social programs and
monitoring of their impact, to be addressed by measures on the budgetary management in extra-budgetary
fund (EBF), improved living standards monitoring to assess the impact of public policy, and improvements
in procurement practices in the health sector. The SOSAC was fully in line with the Transitional Support
Strategy Update (TSSU) of the World Bank for Serbia and Montenegro, which preceded the adoption of a
full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in 2004.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Providing adjustment support of US$80 million to social sector reforms, the SOSAC had six components
supporting the following: (i) systemic reforms to the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) pension system which were
aimed at making it more fiscally sustainable, including preliminary steps in institutional reforms, and also
developing the legal framework for operation of voluntary private pensions; (ii) reforms in reporting and
collection of social insurance payroll taxes, and budget formulation and audit of the Pension and Health
Funds, to improve payroll tax compliance and increase transparency in budget formulation and execution in
EBFs; (iii) reforms of non-pension cash transfers, including social assistance and child protection, in order
to improve the poverty alleviation impact of the social safety net in a manner consistent with existing fiscal
and institutional capacity; (iv) reforms in unemployment programs to mitigate the social impact of
unemployment and enterprise restructuring while respecting fiscal constraints and providing incentives to
re-enter employment, (v) measures to stabilize public sector health finances, including ensuring financing
for vulnerable groups, reduction of co-payment exemptions, and reforms in drugs policy; and (vi) ongoing
implementation of representative household surveys in order to monitor living standards and evaluate the
social and fiscal impact of current and planned public policies.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The SOSAC was highly relevant to Serbia's development
needs as it emerged from a decade of sanctions, conflict and non-reform. In effect, Serbia started the
post-socialist transition process about ten years later than its Central European neighbors. The need for
cost containment and fiscal tightening in Serbia at the beginning of the decade was substantial, with
pension and health systems alone accounting for in excess of 40 percent of total consolidated expenditures
in 2001, and efforts to improve the fiscal sustainability of the PAYGO pension system through key
parametric reforms as well as expenditure adjustments in the health sector were a matter of priority.
Moreover, after an initial effort to provide immediate coverage for the most vulnerable through short-term
financing, the social welfare system was ripe for a broader medium-term reform program to ensure fiscal



                                                    - 2 -

sustainability as well as improved targeting on the poorest. The development of the SOSAC agenda and the
preparation of the Credit was the outcome of an intensive interaction between the Bank and the Serbian
authorities after the Bank's re-engagement with Serbia and Montenegro. The cooperation included
analytical work under a Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and a Public Expenditure and
Institutional Review (PEIR), which identified the economic policy reform priorities which were
subsequently supported under the Bank program. Integral part of this phased overall economic policy
reform program, the SOSAC was linked well to preceding and parallel operations, in particular building on
structural reforms in health, pensions, social welfare and labor supported under the initial Social Protection
Economic Assistance Grant (SPEAG) and the Structural Adjustment Credit I (SAC I). Moreover, the
Government and the Bank team introduced a substantial social assessment process to monitor the impact of
the social sector reforms supported under the SOSAC.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The SOSAC's social sector reform and development objectives have largely been met and the overall
outcome is rated satisfactory. Overall, the SOSAC successfully supported an impressive reform program
towards reducing or containing short and medium term fiscal pressures in the social protection and health
systems, although with varying degrees of success. The SOSAC reforms also helped to maximize the
poverty alleviation impact of public spending through improved targeting and sustained access for the poor
to cash benefits and services, including health and social welfare. Moreover, living standards monitoring
has evolved into a high quality and regular exercise, allowing continuous assessment of the impact of
public policy on the population's living standards.

The Serbian Government in office at the time of the preparation of the credit proceeded extremely quickly
in preparing and securing passage of the reform legislation in line with the first tranche requirements of the
credit. Political turmoil in the wake of the assassination of Serbia's Prime Minister in early 2003 led to the
election of a new Government in early 2004, following which the reform pace slowed down somewhat, in
particular in the area of health. However, overall the reform process in the social sector has been sustained
despite substantial political instability, and the required measures identified under the second tranche were
met with only slight delay.

It is worth noting that some of the medium-term outcome indicators identified in the Project Document's
policy matrix were ambitious. They contained legisaltive changes to which the Government had committed
itself in the Letter of Development Policy, but were not explicitly supported by the SOSAC program, such
as a new Law on Welfare and a new Law on Associations and Foundations. While these outcome
benchmarks are presented in Annex 1, the assessment of policy reforms in this report is oriented primarily
by the explicit SOSAC program measures supported under tranche one and two of the operation.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall outcome rating of the SOSAC is based on the review of the following components and reform
outcomes:

Pensions: In the face of substantial fiscal imbalances in the pension system, the Serbian Government opted
for an impressive set of parametric changes to the pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) pension system in one go. The
SOSAC core condition in the area of pensions was the submission to and enactment by Parliament of a new
Republican Pension Insurance Law. The Law included the following major changes:
        raising the retirement age to 63 for men and 58 for women in a single step, with a minimum 20
         years of service from the previous 60 for men and 55 for women;



                                                      - 3 -

        raising the minimum age at which a pension can be drawn to 53 from 50 for men with 40 years of
         service and for women with 35;
        extending the averaging period for the salary on which the pension is based to include all wages
         earned after 1970 from the previously used average of the 10 most favorable years;
        introducing a point system, whereby each individual receives points for every year of contribution,
         with the number of points per year depending on individual's contribution wage relative to the
         average wage; at retirement, points are then converted into a pension amount, with the value of the
         pension point initially set in the Pensions Law;
        changing pension indexation from average wage indexation to a mixture of 50 percent inflation and
         50 percent nominal wage growth;
        tightening of criteria for determining disability, sharply reducing the number of new disabled; and
        establishing a minimum pension at 20 percent of the average wage.

These significant parametric reforms were expected to result in pension expenditures falling as a share of
GDP and Government spending, however this expectation appears optimistic with hindsight. The SOSAC
reforms achieved an important stabilization of the fiscal position of the Serbian PAYGO pension system,
but a significant burden on the Government's fiscal accounts remains, as evident in the table below. The
pension system deficit remained broadly constant, largely driven by nominal wage growth twice higher than
nominal GDP growth in 2003 and 2004. Recent projections of the system's future performance indicate
that further changes will be necessary to ensure the sustainability of the pension system in the long run.
This has led the Government to seek further technical assistance in pension reforms, and the World Bank
recently approved a new Serbia Consolidated Collection and Pension Administration Reform Project
(SCCPARP) to support reforms on the pension fund administration side. Further pension policy reform
options are also being explored, particularly in pension indexation.

                     Serbian Pension Funds' Basic Financial Data, in percent of GDP
 Pension                                             2002            2003    2004
 Fund
 Employee              Revenues                       7.9             8.3     9.5
                       Expenditures                  12.9            13.5     14.4
                       Deficit                        5.1             5.2     4.9
 Farmer                Revenues                       0.3             0.1     0.3
                       Expenditures                   0.5             0.4     0.7
                       Deficit                        0.2             0.3     0.4
 Self-employed         Revenues                       0.5             0.6     0.7
                       Expenditures                   0.6             0.6     0.7
                       Deficit                        0.1             0.0     0.0
 TOTAL               Revenues                         8.7             9.0     10.5
                       Expenditures                  14.0            14.5     15.8
                     Deficit                          5.4             5.5     5.3
                 Source: Pension Funds and Ministry of Finance.


Moreover, as part of the non-core program under the SOSAC, the Serbian Government also approved a
program to consolidate the three existing civilian pension funds (Employee Fund, Farmer Fund and
Self-Employed Fund) and formed a working group which is to be supported under SCCPARP. In a process
of gradual consolidation spanning a number of years, the Ministry is keen to only implement a merger once
the Employee Fund has paid off the one and a half monthly pension it currently owes to its beneficiaries, so
as to come to par with the Self-employed Fund which has no arrears and is financially sustainable (The
farmer pension fund's arrears stabilized at 20.5 months between 2003 and 2004).



                                                               - 4 -

In addition to supporting the Serbian Government's parametric reforms of the PAYGO pension system, the
SOSAC also helped lay the ground for a diversification of sources of pension income through the
introduction of voluntary funded pensions. Specifically, the SOSAC non-core program supported the
submission to parliament of a Voluntary Pension Law, which had been drafted with technical assistance
under the Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant (SPEAG). While the Law remained subject to
stakeholder discussions ahead of submission to Parliament at the time of writing this report, the
Government had already agreed on implementation steps to be supported by technical assistance under
SCCPARP.

While pension expenditure as a share of GDP has not fallen and the deficit has remained constant between
2002 and 2004, the SOSAC-supported pension reform was a substantial contribution towards promoting
financial sustainability of the pension system: Without these reforms, the fiscal picture in the pension funds
would evidently have significantly worsened, and the system may well have collapsed altogether. Moreover,
reform directions have been sustained and further assistance is being provided by the Bank to help deliver
the expected outcomes. The pension component is therefore rated satisfactory.

Payroll tax revenues and budgetary management of extra-budgetary funds (EBF): The SOSAC
supported as a core condition the preparation and adoption in July 2004 by the Serbian Parliament of a new
Law on Social Insurance Contributions, which harmonized the contribution bases for social contributions,
expanded the contribution base to include non-wage labor income, and expresses minimum contribution
bases relative to average wage. While early indications on contribution revenue developments in EBFs are
encouraging, it is too early to assess the full impact of the new Law. However, with the Law having led to a
significant simplification and standardization of contribution rates and taxable bases, it will be more
straightforward to monitor developments and make adjustment in rates in light of EBF finances and cost of
labor considerations. The reform progress made under the SOSAC is considered satisfactory.

Additionally, as part of the non-core program of SOSAC and in an effort to improve transparency of the
budgetary management of the EBFs, the Serbian Ministry of Finance and Economy also adopted a decision
to require submission of social contribution revenue performance reports to the public revenue agency, as
well as to bring EBFs in line with standards and procedures of the Law on Budget Systems and the
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). While internal audit procedures have been strengthened,
progress on external audits so far has been limited.

Social Welfare: The SOSAC supported parliamentary enactment of two key pieces of social welfare
legislation in Serbia as core program components: The new Law on Financial Support to Families with
Children introduced cost of living indexation of eligibility thresholds and benefits, additional asset tests in
benefit means-testing, the option to apply for assistance as soon as required rather than having to wait for a
specific date in the year as well as additional rights for specifically vulnerable groups. Amendments to the
Law on Welfare and Providing Social Security to Citizens, aimed in particular at providing a basis for
expanding coverage of social assistance, introduced uniform Republican eligibility thresholds for social
assistance and benefit indexation to the cost of living. The amendments also increased the benefit level of
caregiver's allowance for the disabled. These reform measures were designed based on benefit incidence
analysis conducted using Serbia's 2002 Poverty Survey (see section on living standards monitoring below).
They have resulted in better targeting of benefits as well as an expansion of coverage, and are considered
highly satisfactory.

Compared to 2002, total spending on social welfare increased in 2003 and 2004 as share of Government
spending, as did spending on social assistance and caregiver's allowance. While the number of child


                                                       - 5 -

allowance beneficiaries decreased between 2002 and 2004, more households and individuals receive social
assistance and caregiver's allowance. Preliminary analysis shows that, as a result of the tightening of
eligibility criteria and introducing means-testing, child allowance coverage of poor households has
remained stable, while it slightly declined among the non-poor households, suggesting an improved
targeting performance. According to the administrative statistics, coverage of poor households of social
assistance, the best-targeted social benefit in the Serbian social protection system, rose by 7 percent of
households and 10 percent of covered individuals. However, social assistance coverage remains constrained
by low spending, and an expansion of social assistance financing would result in a broadening of the
coverage of poor households. While spending on social assistance has increased five-fold from
approximately 0.02 percent of GDP in 2000 to 0.11 percent of GDP in 2003, it remains low by regional
standards.

Following on from the SOSAC-supported reforms as well as its Social Innovation Fund, the Ministry of
Labor, Employment and Social Policy (MLESP) is planning to prepare a comprehensive new Law on
Welfare for more comprehensive reform of the sector, to reform administration of social services and
promote changes to the system of institutional and alternative care.

Benefits and programs for the unemployed and dismissed workers: As part of the SOSAC core
program, the Serbian Parliament enacted a new Law on Employment and Insurance in the Case of
Unemployment in 2003. This Law introduced more fiscally sustainable unemployment benefit entitlements
with more limited duration and replacement rates to limit adverse work incentives, the inclusion of more
cost effective active labor market interventions, a more appropriate definition of unemployment and revised
rules on obligations of the unemployed to accept work offered or participate in employment programs
offered by the public employment services. It also allows private employment agencies to compete with the
National Employment Service (NES) in the provision of services. The outcomes of the SOSAC-supported
reform are considered moderately satisfactory: While the reform delivered modern employment legislation,
its implementation has been slow and has not yet shown its full effect.

While the new Serbian Law on Employment came into effect in July 2003, the implementation of the new
active programs began with delay, mainly for reasons of capacity constraints in the NES. Operationalizing
some active programs, such as individual employment plans, proved too ambitious at the beginning and
required additional staff, training and information technology equipment. The Ministry decided to follow a
gradual approach, piloting programs in 5 NES branches and has been rolling them out over time. The
capacity constraints are mirrored in fiscal developments: While a relatively modest amount of 900 million
Dinars had been allocated for active programs in 2004, less than half of that amount was spent. Gradual
capacity improvements will allow for greater absorption, but active programs will likely require higher
funding to have an impact across the country. However, for the moment, the fiscal situation in the NES
remains tight. On the social insurance side, the full and timely payment of unemployment benefits
represents a significant problem for the NES, despite the tightening of benefit duration and replacement rate
in the new Law. Benefit payment remains in arrears for 6 months on average. Lastly, the preparation of
bylaws to allow private agencies to operate has taken longer than expected, and few private employment
services have entered the market so far.

Partly as a result of these early experiences, the Ministry is now considering introducing amendments to the
Law. According to the Assistant Minister, subsidies for employers covering their share of social insurance
contribution had proven to provide an insufficient incentive for employers to create formal employment,
and this particular program would be dropped. Moreover, the Ministry is planning to change the article
requiring job-seekers to accept jobs below their educational level or lose the status of unemployed, based on
suggestions from the constitution court that this provision is unconstitutional.


                                                     - 6 -

Poverty and living standards monitoring: The SOSAC also supported poverty and living standards
monitoring, the completion of the Serbia Living Standards Survey (SLS) as well as a household budget
survey (HBS). The outcomes of these efforts are rated highly satisfactory. The Serbian Government
conducted its own household survey, which provides an updated poverty profile for Serbia and which was
the key analytical tool for the preparation and subsequent monitoring of the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). The questionnaire design also allows analysis of specific social protection programs, as
well as of other policy areas, including education, health and employment. Analysis of the first round of the
survey was conducted in late 2002 with technical support from the Bank, followed by another round of the
survey in 2003, which provides information on the dynamics of poverty and allows for more detailed
assessment of new targeting criteria in child protection (see above). The 2003 survey also comprised a
booster for Roma households, so as to allow analysis of comparative data in attempting to study aspects of
deep poverty and social exclusion in Serbia.

The ongoing household budget surveys have been complemented with dedicated social assessments to
monitor the implementation and impact of the social policy reforms supported by the SOSAC. This was
carried out by local social researchers in Serbia with inputs to design from local counterparts and the Bank
team. The overall assessment combines quantitative and qualitative instruments. The quantitative survey is
being accompanied by a set of qualitative focus groups of population groups most affected by the reforms
(e.g. pensioners, families with children, unemployed), carried out twice, in 2003 and in 2005. Findings of
the social assessment are presented in Section 10 of this report.

Health: Public spending on health care in 2001 was estimated at almost 7 percent of GDP, with additional
private expenditures pushing the figure to between 9 and 11 percent of GDP. This expenditure picture
suggested the need for extended and fundamental reforms to reduce cost and improve efficiency of health
services provision. Building on the SPEAG-financed technical assistance and complementing investments
to be financed under the Health Project, the SOSAC supported measures aimed at stabilizing the health
financing system both on the revenue and expenditure side, improving efficiency and quality of the health
care system and ensuring access of the poor to health care. The outcomes of these reforms and progress are
considered moderately satisfactory, with implementation of health sector reforms being slower than reforms
in other areas supported by the SOSAC and, in some instances, only achieving part of their expected
outcomes.

In an effort to reform drugs policy and procurement, registration and licensing practice, the Serbian
Parliament, in early 2004, approved a new Law on Medicinal Products, as core conditionality under the
SOSAC. The Law established an independent Drugs Agency, which has started its operations in late 2004
and which is in charge of registering and licensing of drugs, their distribution and quality control and
inspection. While it is consistent with EU standards, the Law also introduces a provision by which every
batch of imported drugs is to be inspected. This provision may not necessarily constitute an undue
impediment to imports, it could potentially have a negative impact on drug prices and market entry by new
products if implemented rigidly or selectively. In addition, as part of the non-core SOSAC program, the
Ministry of Health (MOH) also approved new operational guidelines for the procurement of
pharmaceuticals, medical equipment and supplies under a new Law on Public Procurement. Although the
Ministry of Health and the Health Insurance Fund (HIF) report a positive impact of these measures on drug
prices and availability, it is too premature for a full assessment of the effects of these pieces of legislation.

The SOSAC also supported efforts to clarify and stabilize the financing base of the Health Insurance
Fund (HIF). In particular, as part of the SOSAC core program, the Serbian Ministries of Finance and
Economy as well as Health and the HIF were to approve in 2003 an agreed list and numbers of vulnerable


                                                        - 7 -

groups eligible for financing of health contributions from the budget, defined per capita contribution and
allocated in the 2003 (and subsequent) budgets. While the Health Insurance Law stipulates that the GOS is
to pick up health care costs for uninsured individuals, the process and criteria by which this happens is less
than systematic and transparent, and this remains so even after the SOSAC. Although from 2003, the
Serbian budget had clear allocations for transfers from the budget to the HIF for refugees, internally
displaced persons and uninsured individuals respectively, amounts required were not based on a transparent
assessment of the number of qualifying individuals and per capita allocations. Moreover, during 2003, the
transfers from the budget to the HIF were below what had been allocated; while in 2004 less than the
required amount was budgeted. Under-financing from the budget for health care costs of vulnerable groups
has contributed to a further build-up of arrears in the system. However, while debts continue to
accumulate, the Ministry of Health began producing consolidated and annually updated statements of
accumulated payables and receivables of the HIF and state-owned healthcare institutions, which renders the
arrears and debt situation in the health sector more transparent.

Also as part of the SOSAC core program, the Government of Serbia approved a joint HIF/MOH decree,
which, while decreasing the level of co-payment obligation, significantly reduces co-payment exemptions,
and adopted measures to improve collection and enforcement of co-payments. While co-payments had been
introduced in public health facilities, exemptions had remained high and comprising up to 70 percent of the
population before the reform. This widespread exemption practice has now been curtailed with the joint
HIF/MOH decree, and only 35-40 percent of the population remains exempted. The bulk of this reduction
was driven by the inclusion in co-payment obligation of about 1.5 million pensioners, whose health service
utilization is 4 times higher than the non-pensioner population, according to the MOH.

In order to support the Serbian Government's strategic planning for subsequent major structural reforms
of the health delivery system, the SOSAC core program also supported the approval by the Ministry of
Health of a new health planning standards and guidelines, as basis for elaboration of a health facilities
restructuring master plan. Based on the health planning standards and guidelines, the MOH is able to
calculate excess hospital capacity in terms of staff and beds. The standards are being piloted in hospitals in
Kraljevo, Valjevo, Vranje and Zrenjanin, but the GOS so far has not approved a master plan. Lastly, as
part of the non-core program, the SOSAC also supported the approval by the Ministry of Health of an
implementation plan for Health Information System (HIS) standards and national databases. As part of the
implementation plan and with support of the Health Project, a locally integrated HIS is being piloted in
Kraljevo, and subsequent European Agency Reconstruction (EAR) funding allows for building capacity
further.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the SOSAC is rated as substantial. The operation effectively built
on previous technical assistance and capacity building conducted under the SPEAG in the area of social
welfare, poverty survey development, pensions and health. Most importantly, it raised institutional capacity
in the line Ministries through supporting an ambitious and technically challenging policy reform program
and ensuring knowledge transfer in the course of the process: A large multisectoral Bank team advised the
Government of Serbia in identifying areas in need of reform as well as provided close support in drafting
legislation through commenting on drafts and disseminating international and regional best practice.



                                                     - 8 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Initially, the SOSAC-supported program benefited from very strong Government commitment and support.
However, SOSAC implementation extended over a tumultuous period of political crisis and change. First
of all and most importantly, Serbia's Prime Minister was assassinated in early 2003, just after the Credit
became effective, which triggered months of political uncertainty, eventually leading up to a general
election and a change in Government in late 2003/early 2004. These political changes contributed to a
period of slack in the reform implementation process after Board approval of the SOSAC, as the new
Government's intentions on continuing the agreed social sector reform path were uncertain, and the Credit
was considered at risk at that time. Moreover, a significant number of new laws and legal amendments
were piling up for discussion and approval in Parliament, and the general election further delayed their
adoption. It is important to note that, despite all the uncertainties and risks of reform discontinuities, the
newly elected Government then re-affirmed its commitment to the SOSAC-supported reform agenda and
moved quickly towards adopting decisions and legal acts its predecessor had committed to for second
tranche.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
However, changes in the Government not only affect reform implementation in terms of delaying
decision-making, it also can disrupt reform implementation due to personnel changes of political appointees
in Government Ministries and agencies. An example for this is the directorial succession in the National
Employment Service, explaining some of the implementation delays of the new Employment Law.
Moreover, even prior to the change in Government, the Ministry of Health suffered from discontinuities in
Ministerial leadership. The Ministry remained without a Minister for extended periods of time, which
affected the lagging implementation of the health sector reforms under the SOSAC.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
US$80 million in total, disbursed in two tranches of US$40 million each.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the SOSAC-supported reform is rated as likely. Building on previous technical
assistance supported under the Serbia Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant (SPEAG), as well as
complementing reforms supported under the Structural Adjustment Credit I (SAC I), the SOSAC
successfully and speedily pushed the social sector reform process further. The new Serbian Government
elected in early 2004 affirmed its commitment to the economic and social reform process initiated by the
preceding first democratic Government of Serbia. While an earlier reform achievement, the SAC
I-supported Labor Law, was undone by the new Government, the overall reform trend points into the right
direction: The Government continues to build a reform track record, and major policy reform reversals
appear unlikely. The fact that, with the exception of the Labor Law, reforms have not been reversed to
date, several years after the initiation of the economic policy reform process, can be considered a success
given Serbia's tumultuous recent history and in comparison to other transition countries, where an
uninterrupted reform process has not been the rule. With the SOSAC-supported pension reforms requiring
follow-up towards improving financial sustainability of the pension funds, the Serbian Government is
pursuing the reform process further with Bank support under SCCPARP and exploring additional options



                                                     - 9 -

towards achieving this goal. Reform progress has been slower in the health sector, but efforts continue
under the Health Project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The identification and development of the SOSAC reform agenda effectively built on the SPEAG policy
reforms as well as technical assistance in the area of pension and social welfare in particular. It also
effectively complemented policy reforms under the SAC I as well as investment and technical assistance
support under the Health Project, although health sector reforms have been progressing at a substantially
slower pace than social protection reforms. Outstanding pension reform issues are being addressed under
the recently approved SCCPARP, while support of continued pension and health policy reforms under a
forthcoming Programmatic Development Policy Loan (PDPL) II is being explored.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in responding to the Government's and the country's needs in identifying areas in
need of support is rated highly satisfactory. The development of the SOSAC agenda and the preparation of
the Credit was the outcome of an intensive interaction between the Bank and the Serbian authorities after
the Bank's re-engagement with Serbia and Montenegro. The cooperation included analytical work under a
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) and a Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR) as
well as under the SAC and the SPEAG. During the preparation of the SOSAC, the Bank provided
extensive policy advice in the area of pensions and social welfare in particular, and preparation benefited
from the outcome of the SPEAG-supported technical assistance. The core Bank team working on the
SOSAC had been involved in the social protection and health policy dialogue with the Serbian authorities
from the preparation of the CEM onwards, which had resulted in a particularly close interaction between
the Bank team and the line Ministries and the Ministry of Social Affairs in particular.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. While the SOSAC team's composition
changed somewhat after Board presentation, the close cooperation and policy dialogue continued
uninterrupted despite the period of political turmoil and disruptions. With SOSAC being a core part of the
overall economic policy reform program in Serbia, supervision was a continuous team effort comprising
also members of the wider Serbia and Montenegro country team and in particular staff located in the
Country Office.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated highly satisfactory. The SOSAC was the product
of a combination of the Serbian Government's strong reform-orientation and a close and constructive
policy dialogue with the Bank in the area of social protection in particular. The first democratic
Government in Serbia had been handed a strong mandate for reform by the electorate in late 2000, and it
pursued a single-minded agenda of capitalizing on this mandate even at the risk of losing the next election
as well as at times skillful maneuvering during the course of its mandate. In fact, the Government, over the
course of its mandate, produced new legislative initiatives at a faster rate than the Parliament could process
them, and the SOSAC preparation reflected this. The Government's efforts in developing and agreeing on
the SOSAC reforms were led by the Ministry of Finance and the then Ministry of Social Affairs, and



                                                    - 10 -

reforms in the area of pensions and social welfare were particularly well and speedily prepared.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance in implementing the SOSAC reform program is rated satisfactory. Political
turbulence after the assassination of the Prime Minister and a later change in Government led to some delay
in the implementation process in the first half of 2004, and the Credit was considered at risk at that time.
This was the case in particular in the area of health, with initial uncertainties as to whether the new
Government would pursue the initiated reform process. However, after some delay the new administration
affirmed its commitment to the SOSAC and accelerated efforts towards meeting the second tranche release
conditions. This was also driven by additional foreign financing needs in mid-2004, which provided
additional incentives to the Ministry of Finance and the line Ministries.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Not applicable.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Government buy-in and demand-driven Bank support show biggest results: The SOSAC clearly
demonstrates that policy development lending achieves most impressive outcomes in situations where the
Bank flexibly responds to a strong reform-minded Government. It also shows the difference in results and
impact between cases where a counterpart is actively shaping the process and setting the agenda for
technical assistance and its follow-up, and those where counterparts are not in the driver's seat but wait for
the Bank's push. Serbia's Government had set an ambitious reform agenda, and the Ministry of Finance
provided strong reform leadership across the social protection and health agenda. More specifically,
Serbia's Ministry of Social Affairs was the main driver of reforms, both in pensions and social welfare and
child protection, and this is where the reform outcomes have been most impressive.

8.2 Extended staff in-country presence and extensive and flexible availability of a stable core team helps
the Bank to effectively respond to Government requests for support in a period of ambitious reform.
Having part of the task team based in Europe at the time of preparation, the Bank was able to effectively
support the Government in the pursuit of its ambitious reform agenda in the areas of pension, health and
social welfare reforms. While the preparation relied on crucial input of visiting Washington-based staff, the
fact that some task team members were able to spend extended time in Serbia and were able to
continuously support the Government with ongoing policy support, helped the rapid pace of the SOSAC
preparation. Moreover, the core Bank team working on the early social protection reforms remained
virtually unchanged from the first task of preparing the Country Economic Memorandum and a Public
Expenditure Review, through the SPEAG, SAC I and SOSAC preparations, which ensured a seamless
overall linkage of the Bank operations' support to the reform process.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Serbia Social Sector Adjustment Credit
Completion Report

The initial transition measures in Serbia in the period 2001-2004 were aimed to provide basic conditions



                                                    - 11 -

for the development of a market economy, a more efficient state sector, therefore enabling growth in
employment, living standards and economic output. The inherited social protection system was inefficient
and not able to address the needs of the poor population. This sector was also carrying huge arrears in
social benefit payments. The immediate expectation of population was the sharp recovery of living
standards.

The need to implement an urgent improvement of the social protection (including health protection) system
was obvious. The expert and monetary assistance of the international organizations was a crucial condition
for effective and quick improvement in this area. The World Bank Group and more specifically, the
SOSAC credit project aimed to address the core issues to enable systemic changes in the social protection
and labor sector.

As the public finance system was stabilized, there was a great improvement in the sector of social services,
measured in clearance of arrears, increased efficiency of transfers to households, improvements in the
legislative solutions and operational capacity of the social care institutions. The sharp recovery also posed
fiscal risks. The average wages sharply increased in the mentioned period, significantly exceeding
productivity increase. The state administration and the public sector recorded a recovery in terms of
operational efficiency and employment levels. Inflation was hammered down from excessive annual levels
of over 100% prior to 2001. Still, the price parity adjustments (to achieve real market price levels)
continued to drive inflation over sustainable levels (if compared to neighboring countries). This posed a risk
to fiscal sustainability of social spending (especially pensions), having in mind the applied indexation
mechanisms based on wages and cost of living. These issues were addressed through the parametric reform
of the pension system that will be continued in the next period.

We see this project as successful, properly implemented and reaching its objectives. Together with the
World Bank Group, the Government of Serbia has invested a significant effort to enable proper
implementation. The reforms that were initiated with this project are continuing, enabling further systemic
improvements. One good example is an ongoing Pension Administration Reform Investment Project that
should provide significant improvement in the contribution collection, transparent and universal register of
insured persons (covering different existing compulsory social security schemes, namely pension and
health).

(i)      Assessment of the project objective, design, implementation and operational experience

The SOSAC project objectives:
l to support to the Government of Serbia in the preparation and implementation of key first generation
    reforms in social protection, labor and health;
l to reduce short and medium term fiscal pressures from social programs;
l to maximize the poverty alleviation impact of public spending


The overall project objectives were well-designed, aimed at the core areas to enable improvement of the
social protection system. Same time the objectives addressed the underlining medium-term conflicting goal
of decreasing the fiscal pressure, as the social protection accounts for a major public expenditure area. It
was rightfully presumed that the basic, major component of social care, the pension insurance system,
could face a fiscal sustainability problem.

The specific policy/action matrix was developed to facilitate the project implementation and enable easy
monitoring of the project. The matrix was clear and understandable, with very useful and pragmatic
sequencing of actions needed. In the first stage (the first tranche operation), the strategy covered


                                                     - 12 -

simultaneous adaptation/improvement of both revenue and expenditure side of the system (e.g. the reform
of the pension law, clearly defining the rights and benefits, enabling lower future aggregate expenditures
relative to GDP, and same time initiating work on the new Law on social contributions enabling higher
compliance rate of contribution collection). The second stage enabled completing and enacting of the new
laws initiated in the first tranche, and initiating new law and by-law changes (Law on drugs, Law on Social
Protection...). The project has included valuable assistance to establishing advance poverty monitoring
methodology and support to official statistics to develop capacity for regular poverty monitoring.

The project implementation could be described as dynamic and smooth, excluding the short period (2003)
of political instability due to the assassination of Prime Minister Djindjic. Due to the mentioned
implementation delay, some core conditions were met only a month after to the initial project closing date.
Overall, we see the project as a very successful in implementation and in achieving the proclaimed
objectives.

(ii)     Evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future

As the project objectives were jointly designed and compatible with the Government's policy, there was a
significant motivation of the Government for the successful implementation. The anticipated benefits were
clear and certain. All of the core and majority of the non-core conditions were met as requested. The strong
local expert groups (including both leading civil service and external experts) were created to master the
needed legislative changes. However, the implementation of this project reiterated the known shortfalls in
state administration capacity, due to the lack of strategic planning (due to inadequate number of
qualified/skilled civil servants) and sporadic lack of communication between relevant line ministries. It
could be noted that these deficiencies somewhat improved over the project implementation period, yielding
in the improved communication, experience in the legislative activity, updated analytical skills and
broadened views stemming from the regional cooperation (with neighboring countries) and support from
international experts. The need for sectoral cooperation, joint workgroups and for analyzing other country
experiences could be the lesson learnt for the future projects.

(iii)    Evaluation of the performance by the Bank during the evolution and implementation of the project,
including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

The World Bank has acted actively in proposing the strategic options for the project design, same time
enabling the leading role of the Government and the stakeholders in the policy design. This yielded the
proper project design and successful implementation. Due to the specific experience and high efficiency of
the local World Bank staff, the international WB staff and visiting experts, the project had a strong
assistance provided by the World Bank. It should be mentioned that local WB office provided a key
support to smooth continuation of the project after the elections and the new Government has been formed.
This support ranged from effective briefing of the new Government officials on the project status, benefits
and the next steps, to expert support to law drafting workgroups, even to the operative support of the
ministries staff in carrying over procedural tasks.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.




                                                      - 13 -

10. Additional Information

SOSAC Social Assessment

Background: The SOSAC was accompanied by a designated Social Assessment, in order to monitor the
impact of the SOSAC-supported reforms on the population, and to explore the differences in people's
perceptions in the early 2003 and 2005. The assessment combined quantitative and qualitative instruments.
In 2003, the Strategic Marketing and Media Research Institute (SMMRI) ran a baseline quantitative
survey of public opinion. Complementary qualitative work was done by the firm Argument, under separate
terms of reference. The quantitative survey was accompanied by a set of qualitative focus groups of
population groups which are most likely to be affected by the reforms (e.g. pensioners, families with
children, unemployed), as well as key informants (e.g. government officials, NGO, academia). The same
was repeated in 2005. The follow up survey was incorporated into SMMRI's existing omnibus survey. The
questionnaires for both surveys were developed together with the Bank SOSAC team.

Main Findings: The findings were presented to the representatives of the Ministry of Labor, Employment
and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health on March 29, 2005. The following summary of main findings
includes the feedback provided by the Government representatives:

l Overall, respondents feel that they are not sufficiently informed about social sector reforms and that
    there is a lack of transparency on the Government side.
l Related to the pension system reforms, respondents felt somewhat less informed in 2005 compared to
    2003. This may possibly be attributed to the broad public consultation efforts in 2003 preceding and
    following the adoption of the new Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. Generally, the public is
    not in favor of further pension reforms, including the possibility of increasing the retirement age for
    women (84 percent of respondents did not approve such proposal).
l Respondents were equally informed about social welfare and child protection in 2003 and 2005.
    However, some of the programs supported by the SOSAC have managed to attract greater attention.
    There is a significant difference in people's perceptions about the MOP social assistance program
    between the two years. In 2005, about 35 percent of respondents reported that they are aware of the
    MOP social assistance program, which is a significant increase compared to 14 percent in 2003. Some
    findings from the focus groups and interviews show that people are very pleased with the achievements
    in the social protection area (clearing the arrears in payments, the establishment of unified eligibility
    thresholds, increased cooperation with the NGO sector, trainings and the establishment of a Social
    Innovation Fund).
l In the area of employment, respondents tended to report that they are not adequately informed about
    the existence of employment programs. At the same time, they find the existing active labor market
    programs (ALMP) inefficient.
l Respondents indicate that they are only partially informed about health sector reform and some ad hoc
    activities. People seem to be aware of programs and activities that are more recent. A large share of the
    respondents believes that the practice of informal payments persists and that this should be further
    analyzed and addressed. People report that they spend much more money out-of-pocket on drugs in
    2005 than it was the case in 2003. They also find that the existing public-private mix in health service
    delivery is not adequately regulated.




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
     Area and Objective        SOSAC Program measures            Outcome benchmarks for                    Actual
                                  (core components in bold)               2003-2004
1. Macroeconomic               Maintain adequate               Continue to maintain           Serbia retains sustainable
                               macroeconomic framework         sustainable macroeconomic      macroeconomic framework.
                                                               framework
2. Pensions                      Enactment by Serbian           New Serbian Pension Law        Pension Law adopted in
                                 Parliament of new              implemented and pensions       2003. Pension Fund deficit
Undertake systemic reform        Republican Pension Law.        spending (excluding arrears    has stabilized, but pension
of the pension system to                                        clearance) falling as share of expenditure/GDP ratio has
promote fiscal sustainability,   Adequate progress on           GDP and Government             not fallen because of
closer links between             reduction in pension arrears.  spending.                      nominal wage growth twice
contributions and benefits,                                                                    higher than nominal GDP
and greater administrative                                                                     growth in 2004. Pension
efficiency and transparency.                                                                   arrears stabilized between
                                 Submit draft Law on                                           2003 and 2004.
                                 Voluntary Pension Funds to
                                 the Serbian Parliament         Voluntary Pension Funds        Law is still subject to
                                                                Law adopted and existing       stakeholder discussions
                                                                and future private pension     ahead of Government
                                                                funds being licensed and       adoption, but Government
                                                                regulated according to its     has agreed on
                                                                terms.                         implementation steps with
                                                                                               technical assistance under
                                 Government of Serbia to                                       SCCPARP.
                                 approve a program to
                                 consolidate the three pension  Adequate progress on           Consolidation process is
                                 funds                          implementation of approved     under way. Ministry working
                                                                plan to consolidate three      group for consolidation was
                                                                civilian pension funds.        formed in October 2004 and
                                                                                               is operating, with assistance
                                                                                               from SCCPARP.
3. Payroll tax revenues and Enactment by Serbian                Social insurance              Law on Contributions enacted in
budgetary management of Parliament of Law on Social             contributions for different   2004. Contribution bases have
EBFs                           Insurance Contributions          categories of contributors    been harmonized and non-wage
                                                                being calculated and paid on  labor income included in the
Promoting greater efficiency                                    harmonized basis under new contribution base.
and transparency in tax                                         Law. Non-wage labor
administration, including                                       income subject to payroll
reducing compliance burden                                      taxation.
on employers.                  Serbian Ministry of Finance and                                Achieved
                               Economy to approve a
Promoting roll-out of public   Ministerial decision to require
expenditure management         submission of reports on social
reforms into EBFs to promote contributions to the Public
transparency at all stages of  Revenue Agency.
budget cycle.
                               Initiate implementation of 2003                                Achieved.
                               budgets of Pension and Health Finalize 2004 budget in
                               Funds based on GFS              accordance with LOBS
                               classification.                 standards and procedures, and
                                                               based on credible MTEF for
                                                               each of the social funds.
                               Begin preparation of 2004 draft                                Achieved
                               budget for EBFs in accordance
                               with calendar established in
                               Law on Budget Systems and
                               based on medium-term
                               framework developed by MOFE.

                               Audit procedures in addition to
                               BIAS introduced in Health and                                  Internal audit procedures have
                               Pension Funds.                  Regular internal and external  been strengthened, but
                                                               audits being conducted on      progress on external audits so
                                                               EBFs.                          far has been limited.




                                                                 - 15 -

4. Social Welfare                Enactment by Serbian             Total spending on social         Law on Financial Support to
                                 Parliament of Law on             welfare does not decrease in     Families with Children and
Promoting cash benefits for      Financial Support to             2003 as share of                 amended Law on Welfare
the poor which are better        Families with Children.          Government spending, with        and Providing Social
targeted, and provide a more                                      increase in social assistance    Security to Citizens under
effective and reliable safety     Enactment by Serbian            spending.                        implementation.
net within available              Parliament of amendments                                         Total spending on social
resources.                        to the Law on Welfare and                                        welfare in 2003 and 2004
                                  Providing Social Security                                        increased, as did social
                                  to Citizens.                                                     assistance expenditure and
                                                                                                   coverage.

                                                                  MOSA to develop new Law          Preparation of Law on
                                                                  on Welfare for more              Welfare is under way,
                                                                  comprehensive reform of          building on
                                                                  sector, including                SOSAC-supported reforms
                                                                  administration, social           as well as its Social
                                                                  services and                     Innovation Fund, to reform
                                                                  institutional/alternative care.  administration of social
                                                                                                   services and promote
                                                                                                   changes to the system of
                                                                                                   institutional and alternative
                                                                                                   care.
                                                                  Serbian Parliament to adopt
                                                                  new Law on Associations          Preparation of Law on
                                                                  and Foundations (NGO Law)        Associations and
                                                                  which would provide clear        Foundations is under way.
                                                                  and financially sustainable
                                                                  framework for operation of
                                                                  domestic and foreign NGOs,
                                                                  including promoting
                                                                  partnerships with public
                                                                  sector.
5. Benefits and programs         Enactment by Serbian            New Serbian Law on               The new Law on Employment
for the unemployed and           Parliament of Law on            Employment under                 and Insurance in Case of
dismissed workers                Employment and Insurance implementation, including more Unemployment was approved in
                                 in Case of Unemployment.        cost-effective mix of active     July 2003. Implementation of
Mitigating the social impact of                                  programs in force and            new active labor programs was
unemployment and enterprise                                      unemployment benefits being      slow for reasons of initial
restructuring while respecting                                   paid in full on timely basis.    capacity constraints and
fiscal constraints and                                                                            under-funding.
providing incentives to re-enter Explicit benchmarks agreed for
employment.                      access by enterprises to Social Social Program budget for 2003 Initially a short-term measure,
                                 Program funds.                  clearly defined in budget, with  the Social Program has evolved
                                                                 clear identification of eligible into a regular feature still under
                                                                 enterprises and triggers for     implementation in 2005.
                                                                 access to SP funds.              Currently around 35-40
                                                                                                  enterprises benefit annually
                                                                                                  from the program and receive
                                                                                                  support in payment of
                                                                                                  severance, while selection
                                                                                                  criteria remain unclear.
6. Poverty and living            Completion of representative     HBS being conducted on          LSMS-style household survey
standards monitoring             LSMS-style household survey,     regular basis by Serbian        completed and HBS under
                                 satisfactory analysis done and   Statistical Institute, with     implementation.
Improving living standards       data sets made publicly          adequate budget provision
monitoring in order to provide available.                         and ongoing training of SSI
policy makers and others with                                     staff in survey
reliable information on poverty Household budget survey using implementation and analysis.
and the incidence and impact revised sample and instrument
of public programs.              being implemented by Serbian
                                 Statistical Institute.
                                                                  Labor force survey being
                                                                  conducted on regular basis      LFS under implementation.
                                                                  using ILO definition of
                                                                  unemployment.
7. Health                        Serbian Parliament to adopt Serbian companies can export New Law on Medicinal Products
                                 new Law on Medicinal            and foreign companies import     under implementation, without




                                                                   - 16 -

Stabilize the finances and      Products.                      drugs without unnecessary       undue impediments to drug
improve the efficiency and                                     impediments.                    imports and exports.
quality of the health care      Operational guidelines approved
system.                         by MOH for implementation of                                   Drug agency established in
                                pharmaceuticals, medical       Drug Agency established,        October 2004 and has begun
                                equipment and supplies under staffed and functioning.          operations.
                                the new Law on Public
                                Procurement.                                                   Current low comparable prices
                                                               Serbia paying prices for        favor Serbian drugs. MOH and
                                                               non-patent drugs and medical    HIF report positive impact of
                                                               supplies in line with prices    new Law on drug prices and
                                                               achieved in competitive         availability, but it is premature
                                                               international bidding by        for a full assessment of effects.
                                                               international drug procurement
                                                               agencies.
Clarify and stabilize the        Serbian MOFE, HIF and          Budget transfers and            From 2003 the Serbian
financing base of the HIF.       MOH to approve agreed          inter-fund transfers continue   budget had clear allocations
                                 list and numbers of            to be made in full and on       for transfers from the budget
                                 vulnerable groups eligible     time for all non-earners,       to the HIF for refugees,
                                 for financing of health        uninsured and vulnerable        internally displaced persons
                                 contributions from             groups at rates which reflect   and uninsured individuals.
                                 budget, define per capita      average expenditure.            Amounts required were not
                                 contribution and allocate                                      based on a fully transparent
                                 in 2003 budget.                                                assessment of the number
                                                                                                of qualifying individuals and
                                 Transfer for identified                                        per/capita allocations.
                                 vulnerable groups being                                        Budget transfers do not
                                 made from budget to HIF in                                     meet the cost requirements
                                 full and timely manner.                                        in full.

                                                                                                HIF/MOH decree approved
                                 Government of Serbia to                                        and under implementation,
                                 approve HIF/MOH decree                                         reducing co-payment
                                 reducing co-payment                                            exemption from 70 to 35-40
                                 exemptions significantly,                                      percent of the population.
                                 and adopt measures to
                                 improve collection and
                                 enforcement.
                                 MOH to produce                                                 Debts private financial
                                 consolidated statement of      HIF and publicly-owned          institutions remain.
                                 accumulated payables and       health institutions eliminate
                                 receivables of HIF and         debts to private financial
                                 state-owned healthcare         institutions and arrears to
                                 institutions, and make         private sector suppliers are
                                 provision for annual updates.  in line with contractual terms
                                                                for maximum payment
                                                                period.
Initiate strategic planning for   Serbian Health Planning      Health Facilities Restructuring  Serbian Health Planning
major structural reforms of      Standards and Guidelines      Master Plan for Serbia           Standards and Guidelines
the health delivery system       approved by Serbian MOH approved and implementation            have been approved; Health
                                 as basis for elaboration of   initiated to reduce excess       Facilities Restructuring
                                 health facilities             hospital beds/facilities and     Master Plan awaits approval.
                                 restructuring Master Plan.    staff.

                                 Implementation plan for                                        Health Information System
                                 republican Health             Health Information System        Standards Master Plan
                                 Information System            Standards Master Plan for        awaits approval.
                                 standards and national        Serbia approved.
                                 databases approved by MOH




                                                                - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                Estimate          Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                               US$ million       US$ million
1. SOSAC                                                           80.00             91.08


Total Baseline Cost                                                80.00             91.08
 Physical Contingencies                                             0.00              0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                0.00              0.00
                         Total Project Costs                       80.00             91.08
                  Total Financing Required                         80.00             91.08
Note: The increase in total project cost is caused by exchange rate gains on the SDR 60.4 million during
project implementation.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year     Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              June 3-13, 2002              8    Task Team Leader/Lead Social
                                                Protection Specialist (1); Lead
                                                Economists (3); Sr. Labor
                                                Economists (2); Sr. Labor
                                                Specialist (1); Operations Officer
                                                (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              September 10 -             10     Task Team Leader/Lead
              October 5, 2002                   Social Protection Specialist
                                                (1); Lead Economists (3); Sr.
                                                Labor Economists (2); Senior
                                                Economists (3); Operations
                                                Officer (1)

 Supervision
              September 8 -                4    Task Team Leader (1);                  S               S
              October 3, 2003                   Senior Economist/Pensions
                                                Specialist (1); Health
                                                Specialist (1); Operations
                                                Officer (1)
              March 31 - April 9,          7    Task Team Leader (1); Senior           U               S
              2004                              Economist (1); Senior Labor
                                                Economist(1); YP/Health
                                                Specialist (1); Social Protection
                                                Program Team Leader and
                                                Senior Economist (1); Operations
                                                Officer (1); Junior Professional
                                                Associate (1)
              June 13 - July 2,            7    Task Team Leader (1), Senior           S               S
              2004                              Economist (1), Junior
                                                Professional Associate (1), Senior
                                                Labor Economist(1), Health
                                                Specialist (1), Social Protection
                                                Program Team Leader and
                                                Senior Economist (1), Operations
                                                Officer (1)

 ICR
              May 4-6, 2005                1     Task Team
                                                 Leader/Economist (1);




                                                 - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                59.79                     151,779.50
  Supervision                          39.84                      69,744.74
  ICR
  Total                                99.63                     221,524.24




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Transitional Support Strategy Update for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Report No.
     24476-YU, July 18, 2002, South East Europe Country Unit, ECA Region, World Bank.

2.   Serbia and Montenegro: Serbia Social Sector Adjustment Credit - Program Document, Report No.
     25668-YU, March 20, 2003, ECSHD, ECA Region, World Bank.

3.   Serbia and Montenegro: Serbia Consolidated Collection and Pension Administration Reform
     Project - Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 31655-YU, May 2, 2004, ECSHD, ECA
     Region, World Bank.

4.   Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: Social Protection Economic Assistance Grant - Memorandum of
     the Country Director to the Regional Vice President, Report No. 22300-YU, August 29, 2001,
     ECSHD, ECA Region, World Bank.

5.   Serbian Pension Funds' Basic Financial Data, Pension Funds and Ministry of Finance, Serbia and
     Montenegro.

6    Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report and Aide-memoire, September 8-12, 2003, ECSHD,
     World Bank.

7.   Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report and Aide-memoire, April 1-28, 2004, ECSHD, World
     Bank.

8.   Supervision Mission Back-to-Office Report and Aide-memoire, June 13 - July 2, ECSHD, World
     Bank.

9.   Serbia SOSAC Social Assessment, May 2005




                                               - 24 -

- 25 -

