Report No. PID11483
Project Name             Federal Republic of Yugoslavia-Social
Sector Adjustment Credit (SOSAC)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Other social service
Theme
Social risk mitigation; Social risk reduction
Project ID               P078390
Borrower(s)              Federal Republic of Yugoslavia   (FRY)
Implementing Agency(ies)
Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE)
Environment Category     U (not rated for adjustment operations)
Date PID Prepared        January 15, 2003
Auth Appr. Date          November 26, 2002
Bank Approval Date       March  2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Recent Economic Developments. Strong implementation of these programs has
brought visible progress, while laying the foundations for a sustained recovery
and improved living standards. Twelve month inflation declined from 115 percent
at end 2000 to 39 percent at end 2001, and further to a projected 16 percent at
end 2002.    Despite a formal managed float, the nominal exchange rate of the
Yugoslav dinar to the DM/Euro has remained stable and unified since December
2000. Subsequent real appreciation primarily reflects adjustment from an
undervalued level. FRY's official foreign reserves are projected to grow to US$2
billion at end 2002. Real GDP has rebounded from a decline of about 16 percent
in 1999, growing by 5.5 percent in 2001 and a projected 4 percent in 2002.
The cash-based consolidated fiscal deficit (before official grants)
increased from 1 percent of GDP in 2000 to an expected 5.1 percent in 2002.    This
is because the expenditure savings from the structural reform program were
initially outweighed by more realistic budgeting of commitments (i.e. lower
accumulation of arrears), and bringing on budget of some quasi-fiscal activities
(e.g. through higher energy prices and explicit subsidization which contained
the losses of state-owned power companies). More recently, the deficit has been
impacted by a sharp increase in debt service payments and the coming on stream
of some donor-financed public investments. The increase in fiscal deficit has
been managed in a manner consistent with stabilization due to the strong inflow
of donor funding since 2000. Despite good progress, the fiscal position remains
fragile. In 2002, consolidated general government revenues (excluding grants)
are projected to amount to 41.6 percent of GDP, and expenditures to 46.7 percent
of GDP.
In FRY, foreign trade volumes have increased. Following an 18.6 percent
rebound in 2000 from the lows of the Kosovo conflict, exports of goods and
services (in US Dollars) rose by a further 7.7 percent in 2001 and a projected
16.9 percent in 2002, but remain below their real 1998 level. More rapid export
growth has been constrained by capacity and liquidity constraints and a less
favorable external environment. In 2002, the dollar value of imports of goods



and services grew by a much larger 25 percent, primarily reflecting greater
donor financing. While imports grew much more rapidly than exports, the high
grant-financed component of additional imports meant that the current account
deficit (including foreign grants) increased from 3.9 percent of GDP in 2000 to
7.9 percent in 2002. These levels obscure a much more negative resource balance
(17 percent of GDP in 2000 and 21 percent in 2002), which has historically been
financed by private transfers from the Yugoslav diaspora, and to a lesser extent
by donor and humanitarian support.
2. Objectives
The overall goal of the SOSAC is to support the governments of FRY and its
largest constituent republic, the Republic of Serbia, in implementation of
reforms in social protection, labor and health which are more fiscally
sustainable while continuing to provide core benefits and services to the
population, in particular the poorest. The two overarching objectives are to:
(i) reduce short and medium term fiscal pressures from social programs through a
combination of entitlement reform and efficiency improvements; and (ii) maximize
the poverty alleviation impact of a given level of public spending through
improved targeting and sustained access for the poor to services. The
subsidiary objective of the operation would be improved transparency and
accountability in the management of public funds in social programs and
monitoring of their impact.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The rationale for the proposed SOSAC at this point in Serbia's transition is:
?       the need for cost containment and fiscal retrenchment in Serbia is
substantial, and the pension and health sectors are major public spending
areas (around 42 percent of total consolidated expenditures in 2001).
Overall efforts at deficit reduction will not be effective without serious
progress in these sectors. At the same time, the structural nature and
complexity of health sector problems suggests a staged approach to reforms
is needed which may not yield substantial cost savings in the short run;
?       the underlying social and child protection safety net needs further
adjustment in order to respond both to the fiscal constraints and emerging
demands for benefits and services from the population;
?       Serbia has moved swiftly on fundamental economic reforms, including
privatization restructuring and financial sector reform. It is critical
to the sustainability of the overall reform program that the Government
continue to devote equal attention to reform of social sectors. The SOSAC
thus supports the Government's efforts to ensure that the fiscal and
poverty agendas retain equal priority. This policy agenda is complemented
by investment projects in health and labor which will address structural
problems and capacity issues in greater depth;
?       while the proposed policy agenda is ambitious, the Serbian authorities
have developed a good track record in delivering challenging social sector
reforms. In the social protection area in particular, there has been
effective coordination of reform efforts under the Ministry of Social
Affairs. Both factors suggest strong delivery capacity in technical and
political terms; and
?       the poor information base in the social sectors contributes both the
continuing inefficiencies and lack of transparency in public resource
management.
-2-



4. Description
The key proposed areas for support are as follows:
(a)     Pensions;
(b)     Harmonizing payroll taxes and reforming budget management in extra-
budgetary funds;
(c)     Health Sector;
(d)     Labor and Employment;
(e)     Social and Child Protection; and
(f)     Poverty Monitoring and Capacity Building.
5. Financing
Source (Total (US$ 80m)
BORROWER (0)
IDA (80)
Total Project Cost: USD 80.00
6. Implementation
The proposed SOSAC would be made to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,
represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance. The final beneficiary will be
the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. The
credit will be on hardened IDA terms, with a maturity of 20 years, including a
grace period of 10 years. It is proposed to disburse the Credit in two tranches.
The first tranche would be released upon approval of the Credit and notification
by IDA of Credit Agreement Effectiveness. The Federal Ministry of Finance will
open and maintain a special Deposit Account in the National Bank of Yugoslavia
(NBY). Upon notification by IDA of Credit Effectiveness and submission to IDA
of a withdrawal application, the proceeds of the first tranche of the Credit
will be deposited into the Deposit Account of the Federal Ministry of Finance.
The Borrower will make available to the Republic of Serbia in Dinar to its
general budgetary account the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit.
7. Sustainability
The program of reforms supported by the Credit should make a significant
contribution to the fiscal sustainability of cash benefit and social service
programs in Serbia. Through also focusing on continued access for the poor to
core benefits and services, it should also promote the sustainability of the
overall reform program of the Government of Serbia.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Government of Serbia has shown strong ability to proceed with challenging
reforms, and the policy content of the operation reflects the ambitious nature
of social policy reforms to date.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The proposed SAC is not expected to result in any negative impact on the
environment. For the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it is proposed to
rate the Credit as Category C, which does not require an environmental
assessment. This will be subject to review by ECSSD environment staff of the
-3 -



ISDS.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Philip O'Keefe
The World Bank Office in Australia
Telephone: 5740-537
Fax:   (61-2) 9223-9903
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop
during the week ending January 24, 2002.
- 4-



