Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3750-YF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
Social Sector Adjustment Credit 
 
between 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 8, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3750-YF 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 8, 2003, between the SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower and the Republic of 
Serbia a letter dated December 27, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to achieve structural adjustment in the social protection, labor and health 
sectors of the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia (hereinafter called the Program), declaring 
the Borrower’s and the Republic of Serbia’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and 
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia by 
making the Credit in two tranches as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 
1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) 
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to this 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit 
Agreement.”; 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development 
Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(b) 
“Dinar” means the lawful currency of the Borrower; 
 
(c) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European Union 
that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European 
Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union; and 
 
(d) 
“NBS” means the National Bank of Serbia, the Borrower’s central bank, or any 
successor thereto.  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR60,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account 
in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the National Bank 
of Serbia, 
a
deposit account in Euro on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit 
Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If 
the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have 
been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the 
Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent 
of SDR 30,200,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program;  
 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association ; and  
 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
taken.  
 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the Association may 
give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower 
Page  5
-
4
-
shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect of (i), (ii) and (iii) above, as 
the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 
2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15th and August 15th in each year. 
 
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each February 15th and August 15th, commencing       
August 15, 2013 and ending February 15, 2023.  Each installment shall be five percent 
(5%) of such principal amount.
 
Section 2.08. 
The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program 
and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
The Borrower shall make available to the Republic of Serbia in Dinar 
the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, such terms to include the provisions set forth in Sections 2.04, 2.05 and 2.07 of 
this Agreement.  
 
Section 3.03. 
Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination  
 
Section 5.01. 
For purposes of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions, the following 
event is specified as a condition of effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, that following the 
approval of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower has enacted a law related to the above 
arrangements, and satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 5.02. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Minister of External Economic Relations of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of External Economic Relations 
 
Bulevar Mihajla Pupina 2 
11000 Belgrade 
Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Facsimile: 
 
381 11 3112 979 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Belgrade, Serbia and Montenegro, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
By /s/ Branko Lukovac 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanufactured, 
 
tobacco refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not  
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious stones,  
 
unworked or worked 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated,  
for nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’  
 
or
silversmiths’ wares  
 
(including set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold ores  
 
and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the 
Borrower is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on account of any 
payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02(d) of this Agreement 
 
1.  
The Republic of Serbia has enacted a law on pensions and disability insurance, satisfactory 
to the Association. 
 
2. 
The Republic of Serbia has enacted a law on social insurance contributions, satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
3. 
The Republic of Serbia has enacted amendments to the “Law on Welfare and Providing 
Social Security to Citizens”, Official Gazette No. 36/91, dated June 18, 1991, as amended, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
4. 
The Republic of Serbia has enacted a law on employment and insurance in case of 
unemployment, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5. 
The Republic of Serbia has enacted a law on medicinal products, satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
6. 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken all necessary measures in order to 
reduce significantly the scope of exemptions on co-payments for health services currently provided 
under the “Law on Health Insurance”, Official Gazette No. 18/92, dated April 12, 1992, as 
amended, satisfactory to the Association. 
 
7. 
The Government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a decision on health 
planning standards and guidelines required for the elaboration of a health facilities master 
plan for purposes of future restructuring of health services in the Republic of Serbia, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Emilie S. Santos 
M:\BACKUP\FRY\W-2074Negotiated Amended.doc 
March 12, 2003 2:33 PM 
 
M:\BACKUP\SaM\W-2074Negotiated Amended.doc 
4/28/2003
 
