cYt                                    FivLE  COPY                 RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-658a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
INDONESIA
August 14, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Because of the rapid inflation and floating exchange
rate of the Indonesian rupiah, all amounts in this
report are expressed in U.S. dollars.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Units
I millimeter (mrn)        0. 039 inch (in
1 meter (m)           =  39. 37 in
I Kilometer (km)      =  0. 62 miles
I cubic meter (m )   =  35. 31 cubic feet
I rnillion n3 (Mm )  =  810. 7 acre feet
1  3 per second (m  /sec)=35. 31 cubic feet per second
(cusec)
1 kilogram (kg)           2. 204 pounds (lb)
1 rMetric ton (m ton)  =  2204 lb
= 0. 98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)        =  2.47 acres



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                             i
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                 1
II.    BACKGROUND                                                   2
III.   THE PROJECT AREAS                                            5
A. General Description                                       5
B. The Irrigation System                                     7
IV.   THE PROJECT                                                   8
A. General Description                                       8
B. Project Costs                                            11
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                 14
VI.    INCREASE IN PRODUCTION AND FARMERS' INCOMES                 16
VII.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                      18
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                             18
ANNEXES
1. Agriculture
2. Consultants' Services
3. Project Works
4. Cost Estimates
5. Production, Inputs and Farmers' Income
6. Economic Rates of Return
Chart - Organization Chart
Maps - Map 1:  Location of Project Areas
Map 2: The East Semarang Irrigation Systems
Map 3: The Rentang Irrigation System
Map 4: The Tjisedane Irrigation System
Map 5: The Way Seputih Irrigation System
This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. J.M. Malone and M.D. ffrench-Mullen (of the Bank) and
Messrs. R.M. Fagerberg and C.J. Hoffman (consultants to the Bank)
which visited Indonesia in March 1968.






INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUNMARY
i.        The Government of Indonesia has requested an IDA Credit of
US$5.0 million to assist in financing the rehabilitation of three existing
irrigation systems in the provinces of Central and West Java and the com-
pletion of a new irrigation system in Lamp'ung Pro'rince, southern Sumatra.
The MA funds would be used to provide technical assistance for the detailed
planning of the work to be done and imported equipment and materials to
enable the work to be carried out and would cover part of the cost of
operating and maintaining the equipment. The total area served would
be about 198,000 ha. The project would be the first step in the preparation
and implementation of a well planned program for the rehabilitation and
subsequent operation and maintenance of Indonesia's neglected irrigation
systems.
ii.       Because of the urgency of the Indonesian situation the appraisal
of the proposed project took place before an engineering study or detailed
plan for the execution of the project could be prepared. It will be neces-
sary as soon as possible to retain consultants to make a proper engineering
study and detailed plan for the execution of the project. Meanwhile the
appraisal mission's estimate of the amount of work to be done is adeqnate
to enable the Government to begin ordering the necessary numbers and types
of equipment for each system included in the project as soon as an IDA
credit is approved. After the preparation of the first year's work plan by
the consultants equipment can be deployed and put to work on the more urgent
and obvious tasks without delay.
iii.      In spite of a chronic shortage of foreign exchange the Government
continues to import large quantities of rice in an effort to prevent hunger
in urban consuming centers while attempting to combat the continuing rapid
inflation. In this situation, measures to increase domestic rice production
are being urgently sought. The basic requirement of rice production is an
adequate water supply. Because of the lack of maintenance over the years,
however, the existing irrigation schemes can no longer supply the water re-
quirements to the areas they were designed to serve. As a result yields
are decreasing. To arrest this deterioration and return yields to their
previous levels it is urgently necessary to rehabilitate the irrigation sys-
tems. Once this is done considerable further benefits can be obtained from
the use of other inputs such as fertilizers, which are not presently economic
due to the poorly regulated supply of water to the crop.
iv.       The project would consist of the rehabilitation and completion of
the irrigation systems over a five-year period and would include technical
assistance in the form of consultants' services; the procurement of machinery
and equipment and the training of operators and mechanics; and the execution
of the project works using the machinery and equipment together with manual
labor.



v.        The total cost of the project including import duties is estlated
at about US$8.8 million. It would be financed by farmers (US$0.3 zillion),
by the Government (US$3.5 million) and by the proposed IDA Credit (US$5.0
million). The proposed credit would cover about 57 percent of the total
cost, including the estimated foreign exchange costs (US$4.o million)
and US$1.0 million of the local currency costs.
vi.       The project, which would have an economic rate of return of about
50 percent, would lead directly to an increase in production of 39,000 tons
of rice annually thereby easing the food shortage and reducing rice iports
by about US$6.6 million a year. Equally important, the rehabilitation of
the systems, by restoring adequate and timely water supply to the rice crop,
would enable farmers to make effective use of fertilizers and pesticides,
which would produce an even greater increase in production.
vii.      The project has a high economic priority.  It would erLble the
Indonesian Government, who would be the borrover, to mike a start with some
of the more urgent works of rehabilitation and completion, while drawing up
on a sound engineering basis, an expanded program for the future. The
project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$5.0 million.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia has requested an IDA Credit of US$5.0
million to assist in financing the rehabiiitation of three existing irriga-
tion systems in the provinces of Central and West Java, and the completion
of a new irrigation system in Lampung Province, scAithern Sumatra. The IDA
funds would be used to provide technical assistance for the detailed plan-
ning of the work to be done and imported equipment and materials to enable
the work to be carried out. The total area served would be about 198,000
hectares (see Map 1). The project would be the first step in the prepara-
tion and implementation of a well planned program for the rehabilitation
and subsequent operation and maintenance of Indonesia's neglected irrigation
systems.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of a mission consisting of
Messrs. J.M. Malone and M.D. ffrencli-Mullen (of the Bank) and Messrs. R.M.
Fagerberg and C.J. Hoffman (consultants to the Bank) which visited Indo-
nesia in March 1968.
1.03      The rehabilitation and completion of irrigation systems in Indo-
nesia has been recommended as a matter of the highest priority by both the
IBRD Economic Mission and the Asian Development Bank Technical Assistance
Mission which visited Indonesia in late 1967. 1/ Because of the urgency
of the situation, the appraisal of the proposed ptoject took place before
an engineering study or a detailed plan for the execution of the project
could be prepared. Engineering data were lacking in most cases, but the
Bank's consultants were able to visit some of the more important irrigation
systems in Indonesia and, on the basis of personal observation, combined
with the few data which were available, to make a "windshield estimate" of
the work which has to be done. While it will be necessary as soon as pos-
sible to make a proper engineering study and detailed plan for the execution
of the project, the mission's estimate is sufficiently accurate to permit
the Government to begin ordering the necessary numbers and types of earth-
moving equipment for each system included in the project as soon as an IDA
credit is approved so that, following a preliminary engineering survey and
the preparation of a first year's working plan by consultants, the equip-
ment can be deployed and some of the more urgent and obvious tasks can be
started at the beginning of the next dry season in early 1969. At the same
time the engineering survey and the preparation of detailed working plans
would proceed over another year or two, staying one jump ahead of the actual
project works. The consultants would also begin to prepare a second phase
project for the rehabilitation of other areas. This second phase could
be ready for appraisal in one or two years so that the vital task of
irrigation rehabilitation could proceed uninterrupted after the completion
of the initial phase.
1/   See the latest Bank economic report on Indonesia, Number AS 132a,
dated February 12, 1968, and the report of the Asian Development Bank
Technical Assistance Mission to Indonesia to advise on the Production
and Availability of Foodstuffs, dated December 30, 1967.



II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Comprising more than 3,000 islands, totalling about 190 million
he in area and stretching along the equator for some 5,000 km, Indonesia
possesses a wide variety of climates and soils. Its population of 115 mil-
lion is growing at a rate of about 2.5 percent a year. The island of Java,
consisting of only seven percent of the total land area, supports almost
70 percent of the total population and has an average population density
of more than 560 per sq km.
Agriculture and the Food Situation
2.02      Agriculture aocounts for more than half of Indonesia's national
income and provides the livelihood of about 75 percent of the population,
but, like most sectors of the economy, per capita agricultural production
has been virtually stagnant during the last 30 years. About 50 percent of
the total population is largely self-sufficient with respect to food. About
75 percent of the cultivated area of Java is devoted to food production but,
in spite of this, the island is not self-sufficient in food, particularly
rice, the staple food of the people. Imports from the Outer Islands are
unable to fill the deficit. In spite of a chronic shortage of foreign
exchange, the Government continues to import large quantities of rice from
abroad in an effort to prevent actual hunger in urban consuming centers
while holding down the rate of increase of domestic rice prices in order
to minimize the continuing rapid inflation.
2.03      In such a situation, measures to increase dcmestic food production,
particularly rice, are being urgently sought. A basic requirement of rice
production is an adequate water supply. Becawse of the lack of maintenance
over the years, the existing irrigation schemes can no longer supply the
water requirements of the areas they were designed to serve. As a re*ult,
yields are decreasing. To arrest this deterioration, it is urgently neces-
sary to rehabilitate the irrigation systems. Once this is done and yields
return to normal, considerable further benefits can be obtained froa the
use of other production inputs which are not presently economic due to the
poorly regulated supply of water to the crop.
2.o4      The farmers of Java are responsive to improved techniques, inputs
and incentives and have demonstrated their dpility to maximize their yields,
given the means at their disposal.  Four basic problems have beset the-
Government's efforts to increase food production, however:
(a)  a lack of foreign exchange to import and the physical means
to efficiently distribute the necessary inputs;
(b) the lack of an assured market at remunerative nonfluctuating
prices for the farmers' produce, Justifying the use of
purchased inputs;



- 3 -
(c) the inadequacy of supporting Government services, particularly
the provision of agricultural extension and irrigation; and
(d) the absence of a sound credit system for the millions of farmers
who are unable to purchase inputs for dash.
The BIMAS Program
2.05      In 1963 the Government began the BIMAS 1/ Program, a mass package
program for the intensification of rice production designed to eliminate
these bottlenecks. The program provides for extension advice and the ap-
plication of a package of subsidized inputs of improved seed, fertilizers,
insecticides, rodenticides and spraying equipment on credit. It is limited
to groups of good farmers in villages where full irrigation is available.
Adequate irrigation is a basic prerequisite for BIMAS. After a year with
BIMAS, the farmers are able to take advantage of a follow-up program, known
as INMAS, in which the same package of subsidized inputs is available to
them, but without Government credit or extension advice. The area under
BIMAS has increased from 138,000 ha in the 1965/66 wet season to 400,000 hia
in 1967/68. In the latter year, the INMAS program covered 375,000 ha. In
general, both the BIMAS and INMAS programs have proven successful. The
yield benefits that accrue from the BIMAS and INMAS programs, as a result
of improved varieties, fertilization and pest control are conservatively
estimated to be more than half a ton of rice per ha. In 1967/68 these
programs have probably resulted in about a four percent increase of Indo-
nesia's ten million ton total annual rice output. For further information
on these programs, see Annex 1.
Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Control
2.06      Since the BIMAS and INMAS program can only operate with optimum
efficiency in areas vhich receive adequate irrigation and are not subject
to flooding, a serious constraint on their extension is imposed by the
present run-down condition of Indonesia's irrigation, drainage and flood
protection systems. Adequate and efficient irrigation is the basic require-
ment for optimum rice yields and, in consequence, the rehabilitation of the
irrigation systems is of paramount importance to Indonesia, especially Java,
where the irrigated area of 2.9 million ha comprises one-third of the total
cropped area. Of this area, it is estimated that 1.9 million ha requires
rehabilitation. All irrigated land in Java grows at least one rice crop
each year, accounting for about 75 percent of the total area under wet rice
cultivation. During the dry season, enough water is available in an average
year to properly irrigate a second rice crop on only about a fourth of the
area served during the wet season.
2.07      Until recently virtually no budgetary funds were available for the
maintenance or rehabilitation of the irrigation systems. Beginning in 1967,
with the allocation of 13 percent of the development budget to irrigation,
1/  Abbreviation for "Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan",
literally "mass guidance for self-sufficiency in foodstuffs".



-I4 -
the nev Government demonstrated its concern with the state of the irrigation
systems in the country.. The Government has neither machinery, equipment nor
experienced personnel for this work, however, and it will be difficult, if
not impossible, even to maintain the present capacity of the irrigation and
drainage systems, much less reduce the accumulated backlog of deferred main-
tenance of the last 30 years with hand labor alone. Furthermore, no engi-
neering study of the problem has been maae, nor has any systematic planning
preceded the work that has been started. Thus, rehabilitation efforts to
date have had little impact on the problem.
2.08      Coupled with the budgetary problem and the lack of planning is
the present inefficient organizational set-up for irrigation managseent.
The Ministry of Public Works, acting through its provincial offices, is
responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems from the source of water down to the end of the secondary caial.
The responsibility for the construction, operation and maintenance of the
tertiary canals and turnouts fall upon village officials, responsible
through the district and provincial governments to the Ministry of Internal
Affairs. Due to the decentralized form of administration inherent in the
Indonesian constitutional framework, the Central Government does little
more than the overall planning, coordination and budgeting, while most of
the decision-making and initiative in the day-to-day management of irriga-
tion is retained by the provincial governments, whose budgets pay a share
of the expenses of the irrigation staff in the field.
2.09      Water management is extremely poor in most irrigation systems,
partly because of the need for rehabilitation, but also because of the
shortage of funds and trained staff and the division of responsibility
between different agencies, with little overall coordination. Moreover,
there is widespread corruption in the distribution of irrigation water,
beginning at the village level. In spite of these failings, the Ministry
of Public Works and particularly its Directorate General of Water Resources
Development, with their provincial counterparts, are presently among the
most effective and vell organized agencies of the Indonesian Government.
2.10      Apart frcm illicit payments to village irrigation officials,
farmers make no payment for irrigation water, although they are expected
to contribute their labpr voluntarily for. the construction, rehabilitation
and maintenance of the tertiary canals. Also, farmers pay a land tax aver-
aging about 5-10 percent of the harvest under whicb irrigated land pays a
higher tax than non-irr#gated land, although there is no systematic use of
revenues generated by this tax for irrigation purposes. As a comparison,
an adequate provision for irrigation operation and maintenance would be
about four percent of the harrest. In a recent cabinet decision, the
Government decided to institute a new system for charging the costs of
operation and maintenance to farmers. Legislation is now being drafted to-
implement this decision.
Transmigration
2.11      In addition to the recent efforts to intensify rice productior.
in Java, the Government has for many years parsued a policy of extending



-5-
rice production by resettling landless or unem'3loyed Javanese and demobi-
lized servicemen on the Outer Islands. Rice production on the Outer Islands
now accounts for 40 percent of the total and the area harvested has been
increasing at a rate of three percent annually. Because the new settlers
from Java are usually unfamiliar with the dry-land shifting cultivation
indigenous to these islands and because the Government is anxious to in-
crease rice production for export to Java, a number of schemes have been
started to provide irrigation water to the new settlement areas.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. General Description
3.01      The project areas comprise four irrigation systems covering
some 198,000 ha as follows:
Scheme                              Location                      Area
(o00 ha)
East Semarang                       Central Java                   42
Rentang                             West Java                      91
Tjisedane                           West Java                      4o
Way Seputih                         South Sumatra                  25
Total:                                                            198
Of the four systems, three (East Semarang, Rentang and Tjisedane) are
long established systems on the northern, alluvial plains of Central and
West Java, and one, Way Seputih, is a new system under construction in a
transmigration area in southern Sumatra (see Map 1). The schemes in Java
were selected because they are the largest, most important existing irriga-
tion systems in Indonesia. At Way Seputih, 10,000 families have been set-
tled, the major capital works of the weir and most of the primary canals
have been completed and 1,000 ha of land are already receiving water. A
relatively small additional investment would have the effect of bringing
another 24,000 ha of land under irrigation.
Climate, Topography and Soils
3.02      The schemes are situated in the wet, humid, insular tropics,
south of the equator with a distinct wet season from November/December to
April/May and a dry season for the remainder of the year. The schemes in
Java are situated on the flat estuaries of rivers. The Way Seputih scheme
is situated on a gently undulating peneplain. The soils are very suitable
for wet rice cultivation and with good land and water management and the
application of a nitrogenous fertilizer, are capable of producing good
yields of rice.



- 6 -
Population. Land Tenure and Commumications
3.03      The Way Seputih scheme has a ratio of population to cultivated
land of less than five persons per ha, while the Java schemes have a
density of more than ten. Way Seputih is a transmigration settlement
which is under direct Government management pending the completion of the
irrigation system, following which the titles to the farms of two jnd one-
half hectares, of which one hectare will be irrigated land, will be handed
over to the settlers. All land in the Java schemes is freehold and is
farmed either by the owner, on a share cropping basis or by tenants paying
a fixed rent. Land rents are equivalent to about half a ton of rice per ha
and the average holding is about two-thirds of a hectare. While all the
schemes have good access to the urban consuming centers, the road systems
within the schemes are inadequate.
Cropping Patterns and Yields
3.04      The cropping pattern on Way Seputih differs from that on the
Java schemes. The latter are designed primarily for the production of wet
rice with irrigation while, at Way Seputih, each farm is designed to
provide the farmer with one ha of irrigated land and one and one-half ha
of land suitable for dry farming on which maize, root and tree crops can
be grown. On the Java schemes, a dry season crop of irrigated rice, of
about 40,000 ha, is presently being cultivated. In the present state of
the irrigation systems, this crop is not getting sufficient water and
yields are accordingly depressed. Similarly, the wet season rice crops
suffer generally from water stress, which results in about a 15-20 percent
reduction in yield, save for those areas near headvorks which receive
adequate water. More than sufficient water is available in the wet season
at the intake of each scheme but this cannot be moved to the field because
the canals are silted up through lack of maintenance. Yield data supplied
for each scheme varied considerably. Yields in Java are estimated presently
to average 1.35 m tons of rice per ha in the wet season, and 1.1 m tons
in the dry season. In Way Seputih the yield of rainfed rice is about one
ton per ha.
Marketing, Credit and Transportation
3.05      The producer sells his crop either as stalk paddy 1/ or as rice,
after retaining sufficient for his own requirements. Stalk paddy is trans-
ported from the field to the farmer's house by those harvesting the crop,
either on their backs, on carry poles, by bicycle or by cert. Transport
from the farm to the rice mill is by similar means. There is adequate road
and rail transport from the schemes to the consuming centers.
3.06      There is a conspicuous lack of credit facilities available to
the peasant farmer, together with a lack of an assured market for his crop
1/ Stalk paddy, or pal kering, consists of the head of rice, cut off by
hand, with about 15 cm of the stalk left attached, so that the paddy
can be tied in bundles and slung over carrying poles. Stalk paddy,
when dry, contains about 50 percent milled rice by weight.



- 7 -
at remunerative, non-fluctuating prices. If a farmer is fortunate enough
to be selected for a BIMAS project, he gets seven months' credit for the
BIMAS inputs and subsequently can obtain inputs from the INMAS program.
There is no other institutional source of credit available to him. Under
BIMAS, interest rates are three percent per month, less than the average
rate of inflation, which has-recently been about 10 percent per month.
Supporting Services
3.07      In general, the supporting services available to the farmer
are poor and inadequate. The supply of fertilizers and insecticides is
limited by lack of foreign exchange. The extension services in agriculture
and irrigation are short of adequately trained and experienced staff and of
tools with which to work. The effectiveness of thiose available is further
reduced by a lack of transportation coupled with poor roads within the
schemes.
3.o8      A more detailed discussion of agriculture in the project areas
is contained in Annex 1.
B. The Irrigation System
3.09      With the exception of the Way Seputih system, which is still
under construction, the irrigation systems in the project areas have been
in operation for many years, some of them for more than a century. Before
World War II they were properly managed and maintained and were extremely
productive. While the lack of maintenance combined with a rapid increase
in the rate of siltation and flooding, occasioned by severe deforestation
and erosion in the catchment areas, has been the main factor in the physi-
cal deterioration of these systems since the war, the absence of effective
irrigation management has been equally responsible for their loss in pro-
ductivity.
Water Supply
3.10      All of the systems depend on direct diversion of river flows
during both the wet and dry seasons. Storage capacity is virtually non-
existent except in the Semarang area (45 million m3) where it is of only
minor consequence. The diversion rates and designed capacities of the
systems are based on the approximate water requirement formula of one
liter/sec/ha for the area served during the wet season. This is a
reasonable average requirement for rice production under the continuous
flooding type of irrigation used in Indonesia. There is more than enough
water available to fully irrigate all the systems in the wet season but
not in the dry season, when the average water available for irrigation is
only about 15 percent of the total designed capacities of the systems.
Loss of Capacity
3.11      Insufficient information was available to confirm the official
estimates of reduction in canal capacities. However, it was obvious that



-8-
many of the canals were badly silted up and in some areas there was evidence
of flooding or the danger of floods. In some areas, the operation of the
systems appeared to be influenced by the condition of the tertiaries. When
the tertiaries had not been properly maintained, the water level in the
primary and secondary canals had to be raised unduly high to force water
through the silted-up tertiaries. This has reduced the smount of water
that could be by-passed to fields at the lower ends of the canals and has
resulted in more rapid siltation of the primaries and secondaries them-
selves.
3.12      Most of the irrigation structures and mechanical devices, such
as gates, have been neglected for many years and in some cases are no longer
operative, so that there is no adequate means of controlling the distribu-
tion of the water in the system. A number of gates have been sabotaged,
obviously many years ago, and can no longer be closed or even adjiated.
These structures will have to be repaired at the same time as the canals
are cleared of silt.
3.13      In some areas there have been efforts to maintain canal
capacities by the hand removal of silt. In none of the Java areas was
there any earthmoving equipment earmarked specifically for irrigation.
When local funds recently became available for maintenance of the
irrigation systems, an immediate start was made with the use of hand
labor on an ad hoc basis but without systematic planning of the works.
Most of the canal cleaning to date has been et or near the system
headworks, rather than in the secondaries and tertiaries, thus creating
settling basins in the primary canals.
3.14      It is evident that the three critical shortages affecting the
rehabilitation effort, as well as the effort to complete the Way 8eputih
system, are the lack of budget funds, which has been remedied somnehat
since 1967; the lack of equipment to speed up the work, permit a reduc-
tion in the backlog of deferred maintenance, and operate in places which
hand labor cannot reach; and the lack of planning and programming of the
work to be done.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Descripti',n
4.01      The project for which IDA assistance is required is the
rehabilitation of the East Semarang, Rentang and Tjisedane irrigation
systems in Java and the completion of the Way Seputih irrigation system
in Sumatra. These systems are basically sound and there is adequate
water available in the wet season at the points of diversion for the areas
served. The project would include the following:
(a) Technical Assistance: an engineering study by consultants
of the rehabilitation problem in the areas concerned, the



-9-
drawing up of a detailed pLan for the execution of the proj-
ect as well as rules for the future operation and maintenance
of the systems and the preparation of fuzther projects for
irrigation rehabilitation in other areas.
(b) Training and Procurement: the training of cperators and
mechanics and the procurement of earthmoving machinery and
equipment, spare parts, repair shops and materials.
(c) Execution of Project Works: the rehabilitation and comple-
tion of the systems included in the project over a five-year
period using the earthmoving machinery and materials purchased
together with manual labor. Most of the work would go on during
the dry season and would not interfere with crop production.
(d) Pilot Area for Improved Irrigation Management: the Way Seputih
irrigation system would be set up as a pilot area for improved
irrigation management (see para 5.04).
Technical Assistance
4.02      In view of the urgency of the need for rehabilitation and comple-
tion of the major irrigation systems in Indonesia, combined with the lack
of experienced personnel in the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in both planning and execution of irrigation rehabilitation
and in the operation and maintenance of dredgers, draglines and tractors
used in such work, it is essential to provide for the services of experi-
enced engineering consultants to assist the Government in planning and im-
plementing the project. These consultants would be employed by the Govern-
ment and would work with the Director General of Water Resources and the
engineering staff responsible for irrigation. The consultants would make
an engineering survey and inventory of the systems included in the project
on the basis of which they would prepare a detailed plan for their rehabili-
tation and subsequent operation and maintenance, redesigning them wherever
necessary. On the basis of these plans, they would assist the Government
in supervising the execution of the project. They would set up, and super-
vise initially, maintenance schedules and accounting and control systems
for equipment, materials, spare parts and supplies and would provide in-
service training to supervisory project staff in the operation and main-
tenance of the equipment and the irrigation systems. Finally, in early
1969, they could begin to prepare a further project for the rehabilitation
of other high priority irrigation areas. This project could probably be
appraised in 1969/1970. The consultants' work would require a total of
about 33 man-years; suggested staffing and draft terms of reference are
given in Annex 2.
Project Works
4.03      Assuming that the consultants began their work in September-
October of 1968, a preliminary field survey and inventory of all the
systems plus a detailed plan of operation for the first year's work
could be ready before the beginning of the dry season in April 1969
when equipment could be on site and work on some of the more urgent



- 10 -
and obvious tasks could commence.  In the Way Seputih area, the detailed
engineering is already satisfactory and would permit construction to
proceed on the basis of the existing plans.
4.04      Even in the absence of an engineering study of the amount of
rehabilitation work to be done it was possible for the Bank's consultants
to make a rough estimate of the quantities of excavation involved, suf-
ficiently accurate, however, to permit the procurement of the apropriate
numbers and types of standard earth-moving machinery and equipment re-
quired for each system. These quantity estimates also permit a rough
calculation of the cost of the project works in each system (equipment
operation and direct labor). These latter estimates would have to be
revised by the project consultants on the basis of their engineering
study and detailed plan of operation when they became available. This
revision, however, would not affect the equipment requirements.
4.05      The project works which would be carried out over a five-year
period, are described in detail in Annex 3 and are summarized below:
East                             Way
Length of Canals (km)    Semarang   Rentang   TJioedane   Seputih    Total
Primary                     68          119        88         49         324
Secondary                   93          545       105         78         821
Tertiary                   200          700       200        150       1,250
Total:                     361        1,364       393        277      2,395
Number of Structures       181          393       119        105         798
Total Excavation Re-
tuired (mJ3 millions)    2.2 a/       3.7       2.4 b/     3.3       11.6
Estimated Total Cost
(Us$ millions)           1.4         1.8        1.4        2.3        6.9
a/   Includes 1.3 million mn estimated silt removal required to rehabilitate
an old inland watervay used as a drainage channel.
b/   Includes 0.4 million i3 annual canal maintenance over the last three
years of the five-year period.
Equipment and Service Facilities
4.o6      The Ministxy of Public Works has hardly any eartbmooving equipment
available for irrigation use. Furthermore, the little equipment available
is used on a single shift due to lack of operating funds. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that all equipment financed under the project
would be utilized at the optimum rate. An understanding was reached that
the equipment would be in operation a minimum of 2000 hours each years
either on a double shift or a single shift with a bonus-incentive. While
this is a heavy schedule, it would m ke the optimm use of the minimum
amount of equipment required for each irrigation system, which otherwise
would be doubled.



- 11 -
4.07      Assuming that the earthmoving equipment would operate at least
2,000 hours a year and that a substantial shar of the work would con-
tinue to be done by hand, particularly in the tertiaries, execut.ion of the
proj ect works - period would require four dredgers, eight
draglines, eight bulldozers, four scrapers, 30 dump trucks and three motor
graders. In addition, the project would need ancillary equipment, such as
inspection cars, equipment transporters, concrete mixers, cmpressors,
pumps, etc. It is estimated by the Ministry of Public Works that imported
materials, such as steel, chains, wire mesh, etc., required to repair
hydraulic structures would cost about US$475,000. These estimates were
accepted after examination in the field. To ensure adequate maintenance
of the equipment, provision is made in the project cost estimates for.
spare parts and rearfcite.Eciriainstmwulhae a
op and each of the three provincial public
works repair shops would receive additional equipment. A detailed list
of equipment is given in Annex 3, Table 1.
4.08      The successful tenderers for the supply of field and workshop
equipment would be required to undertake the training of a sufficient
number of equipment operators and mechani.a, immediately following the
delivery of equipment to each scheme or to the workshops.  It is neces-
sary that the training take place at the job site and not at a central
school to minimize wastage of trainees on the com~pletion of training.
The training provided must be such that the operators are not only
efficient at their job but are also capable of undertaking any mainten-
ance normally carried out by the operator when in the field. In the case
of mechanics, they must be trained to strip, maintain and repair the
project equipment and be taught the use of the workshop equipment supplied.
The duration of training would be two to three months. This initial train-
ing would 1eLsu ervised by the consultents sho would themselves set u-P
in-se   ce training programs within the Tin's ryof Public Works.
B. Project Costs
4.09      The total project during the five-year period is roughly
estimated at about US$8.8 million equivalent. Details are given in
Annex 4, Table 1 and are summarized below.



- 12-
Foreign Exchange   Local Cost      Total
Cost          Inc. Duties    Cost
-------(US$ thousands)-
1. Machinery & Equipment in-
cluding Spares.                   2,026              757        2,783
2.  Materials.                          365               110         475
3.  Operation and Maintenance of
Machinery and Equipment              -             1,356        1,356
4. Direct Labor                          -             1,035        1,035
5. Consultants' Services              1,250               417       1,667
6.  Contingencies                       360            1,100        1,460
Total:                                            64,775 
4.10      Foreign exchange costs amount to US$4.0 million, 46 percent of
the total. The cost of imported machinery and equipment is based on normal
sources of supply and includes a 20 percent allowance for spare parts and
the training of operators and mechanics. The cost of materials is based
on information supplied by the Ministry of Public Works. The cost of
consultants' services is based on a team of six or seven men provided by a
consulting firm working for five years at an all-in cost of approximately
US$50,000 per man year, 75 percent payable in foreign currency.
4.1l     A contingency of approximately 10 percent was added to foreign
costs to allow for price escalation. In view of the very rough nature
of the estimates of the quantity of work to be done, a contingency of
about 30 percent has been added to local costs, which are expressed in
US dollars because of the rapid inflation and floating exchange rate of
the rupiah. The overall average allowance for contingencies is 20 per-
cent. To the extent that rupiah costs respond less than proportionately
to possible future devaluations of the exchange rate, the estimate may
be on the high side. The cost estimates include import duties amounting
to about US$500,000.
Financing
4.12      The US$8.8 million total cost of the project would be met
from the following sources:



- 13 -
Foreign Ex-   Local   Total  Per-
change Cost   Cost   Cost   centage
-----------US$xnillions------------
Proposed IDA Credit                       4.0         1.0     5.0        57
Farmers' Voluntary Labor                    -         0.3     0.3         3
Government Development Budget              -          3.5     3.5        40
Total:                               4.0         4.8     8.8      100
The borrower of the proposed US$5.0 million IDA credit would be the
Government of the Republic of Indonesia, which would finance the project
through the annual development budget. The proposed credit would finance
the foreign exchange costs of the project, and US$1 million (20 percent)
of the local costs.  Rehabilitation of the tertia±y canals would be
achieved by voluntary self-help labor at an imputed cost of US$274,000.
The remainder of the cost would be met by the Government.
Expenditures
4.13      The estimated annual expenditures (including contingencies)
on the project are as follows: (further details are given in Annex 4,
Table 2).
Year
1      2      3       4     5     Total a/
------------- US$ thousands-------------
1. Machinery and Equipment       3,232    -       -      -     -     3,232
2.  Materials                      233    98      83     71    65       548
3.  Cleaning of Tertiaries          63    63      49     49    49      274
4. Direct Labor on Force
Account                        364   197    174    164   156    1,056
5. Operation & Maintenance of
Machinery and Equipment        365   360    363    363   292    1,743
6. Consultants' Services           614   615    231    232   231    1,923
Total: a/                    4,871 1,333    900    879   793    8,776
of which,
Foreign Exchange      2,850   490    230    220   210    4,000
Foreign Exchange
Percentage               59    37     26     25    26        46
a/   Inconsistencies due to rounding.



_ 14 -
Procurement and Disbursement
4.14      All imported machinery, equipment, materials and supplies
would be obtained by international campetitive bidding. Assurances
were obtained that the Government would retain a consulting firm,
acceptable to the Association, whose duties and terms and conditions of
employment vould be agreed between the Government and the Association,
as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit. (See para 4.02).
4.15      Withdrawals from the credit account would cover, against
documents, 100 percent of the cif cost of identifiable imported goods
and services, totalling about US$4.0 million, and, against certificates,
an agreed percentage of the cost of operating and maintaining the equip-
ment financed out of the proceeds of the credit.
4.16      The Oovernment would establish and maintain for the proJect
appropriate separate accounts. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that these accounts would be audited annually by an inde-
pendent auditor mutually acceptable to the Government and the Associ-
ation.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Directorate General of Water Resources Development
5.01      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of the Direc-
torate General of Water Resources Development within the Ministry of Public
Works (see organization chart). The present Director General and the three
provincial Directors of Public Works are capable and hard-working, and their
staffs are among the best of any of the government services in Indonesia.
The Directorate General consists of four directorates (the Directorate of
Irrigation, the Directorate of Rivers and Swaspy Areas, the Directorate for
Survey and Planning and the Directorate for Logistical Affairs) and the In-
stitute of Water Resources Development, a group of engineers and bydrologists
working closely vith the various government consulting engineering firms and
the Engineering Faculty in Bandung.
5.02      The Directorate General of Water Resources Development in
Djakarta would be responsible for procurement, training, studies and plan-
ning with the advice of the consultants. The responsibility for the actual
day-to-day work of rehabili$ation in the field would have to be delegated
to the three provincial Directors of Public Works.  The manager of each
irrigation system in the project, who would be responsible for the execu-
tion of the project works i# the field, would report directly to his Pro-
vincial Director of Public Works.
5.03      In view of the present lack of coordination in the field between
the provincial Public Works Departments, who are responsible for diversion
structures and primary and secondary canals, and the district and village
authorities, who are responsible for the ter1iaries, it is essential that



- 15 -
responsibility for the rehabilitation of the entire systems to be included
in the project be unified, so that the voluntary efforts of the villagers
can be coordinated with the other project works. Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that district authorities rwould be responsible
to and follow instructions from the provincial Directors of Public Works
in all matters relating to the project, particularly the rehabilitation of
the tertiary canals.
Irrigation Management
5.04      The present unsatisfactory system of irrigation water management
in Java should be improved. However, the system has been established in its
present form for more than a hundred years and it would not be practicable
to attempt to change it until a thorough study has been made. Nor are the
field irrigation staff ready to assume the increased burden of managing the
systems in their entirety. In Sumatra, however, there is no well-established
structure for irrigation management, and it should be possible to build im-
provements in management into the new irrigation systems being constructed
there. As part of the project, therefore, the Way Seputih irrigation sys-
tem would be set up as a pilot area for improved irrigation management,
with the provincial Department of Public Works responsible for the con-
struction and management of the entire system, including the tertiary
canals. In the meantime the consultants would study the existing system
of water management in Java and would recommend improvements for intro-
duction as early as possible.
Recovery of Costs
5.05      There is no uniform method of recovering the costs of irrigation
maintenance and rehabilitation from the beneficiaries. Farmers have gener-
ally contributed labor during the dry season for the maintenance of the
tertiary systems and, in some areas, have made cash contributions for the
purchase of materials needed to repair small structures. However, in the
absence of any noticeable effort on the part of the Government to rehabili-
tate the primaries and secondaries, the farmer's willingness to contribute
his labor has understandably diminished. Moreover, political dissidents
in the villages have been urging farmers not to cooperate with the Govern-
ment and to refuse to do any work on the irrigation systems unless they are
paid in full for their labor. Finally, although part of the land tax reve-
nues are supposedly earmarked for irrigation in many areas, the salaries of
the large staffs employed by the village and district authorities have ac-
counted for almost the entire amount of tax revenue retained at the local
level. In view of the recent lack of irrigation maintenance and the need
for rehabilitation that has resulted, this situation is unsatisfactory.
The ideal method of recovering the costs of irrigation would be through
a water charge paid by the farmer, and the authorities must begin now,
even if only in a small way, to make routine provisions for the future
maintenance of the irrigation systems, in order to prevent a recurrence
of the present situation. An adequate average provision for the routine
operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems would be about US$8
per ha, or approximately 50 kg of rice per ha, if the maintenance of the
tertiaries is done by the farmers themselves. This is roughly 5 percent



- 16 -
of the farmers' net income after rehabilitation. As mentioned in paragraph
2.10, the Government has recently decided to begin collecting money from
farmers after the rehabilitation of their irrigation systems, to defray the
costs of operation and maintenance of the systems. The exact details have
not yet been worked out; however, during negotiations assurances were
obtained that farmers using the systems included in the project would make
a substantial contribution towards the cost of the operation and maintenance
of the systems. The Government would make up any shortfall from its general
budget revenues. For the Way Seputih system, the Government would institute,
on an experimental basis, the collection of charges vhich, upon ccupletioe
of the system, would enable the recovery of the full costs of operation and
maintenance.
Supporting Services
5.06      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that in the part of
each irrigation system rehabilitated or completed each year under the
project, the Government would provide adequate supporting services, includ-
ing the BIMAS package of input and extension services. This package would
be made available for the first wet season crop following rehabilitation
and would be made available thereafter for the duration of the project.
In areas where full irrigation is available during the dry season, the
package would be rmade available for both wet and dry season crops.
VI. INCREASE IN PRODUCTION AND FARMERS' INCOMES
6.01      The project would lead to an increase in rice production of about
39,000 m tons annually, or about 15 percent of the present level, as shown
below: (Details are given in Annex 5).
A.   Area presently receiving irrigation (ha)                  170,500
Present rice yield (kg/ha)                                  1,350
Rice yield expected after rehabilitation                    1.500
Increase                                                      150
B.   Area presently rainfed (ha)                                26,500
Present rice yield (kg/ha)                                  1,000
Rice yield expected after irrigation                        1,500
Increase                                                      500
C.   Increase in rice production (metric tons)
Rehabilitation                                             26,000
Completion                                                 13.000
Total:                                                     39,000



- 17 -
In projecting these increases no account has been taken of any inputs other
than improved supply of water to the crop. 1/ Moreover, no account has been
taken of the future decline Ln production which would take place without the
project. Except for a small extension of the Tjisedane system, the increased
production in the Javanese rehabilitation areas would result entirely from
more efficient irrigation, both in quantity and timeliness of application,
and improved surface drainage, reducing flood losses. At Way Seputih, the
increase would be entirely due to the supply of irrigation water to an area
presently producing rainfed upland rice.
6.02      This increased production would result in foreign exchange savings
of about us$6.6 million a year by reducing the need for imported rice. This
compares favorably with the project's total foreign exchange cost of only
US$3.5 million.
Prices and Farm Incomes
6.03      For a number of years the price of rice in Indonesia has been
kept at an average level considerably below world prices by the importation
and distribution of rice to consumers at less than cost. In recent months
the price of domestic rice has risen rapidly and now has generally approached
world price levels in major markets. The present farm-gate price is US$160
per metric ton, while the price of imported rice, cif Djakarta, has risen
above US$200 a ton. In this report a price of US$170 per m ton, cif
Djakarta, is used to value the economic benefits. This price is less than
current world prices, which have risen sharply, due to a world-wide shortage
of rice partly attributable to the war in Viet Nam, and is in line with the
projected long-run peacetime average of US$140 a ton fob Bangkok, which is
equivalent to about US$170 a ton, cif Djakarta.
6.o4      The present net return per hectare from rice, after deducting
land taxes and all on-farm production costs, including family labor, is
about 0.75 m tons of rice in the rehabilitation areas and 0.45 m tons in
Way Seputih. Thus, excluding subsistence, the net rice production per
family is about half a ton per year, equivalent to about US$80 at farm-gate
prices. About US$150 is derived from other crops, livestock and the return
to the family's labor, both on the farm and off, making the total family
income roughly US$230 a year, including subsistence.
6.05      As a result of the project, the net return per hectare in Java
would increase by roughly 20 percent, while in Way Seputih it would double.
Thus, since subsistence production and other income are about two-thirds
of the total, family incomes would increase by about seven percent in Java
and 35 percent in Way Seputih. Detailed costs of production are given in
Annex 5.
1/   If the BIMAS package were applied to all these areas a minimum addi-
tional yield increase of 0.5 m tons/ha would be obtained.



- 18 -
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project, which would increase food production and re,uce im-
ports, is of high economic priority. The net economic benefits of the
project consist of the projected increase in the production of rice, valued
at the cif price of imported rice, US$170 a ton, less the additional pro-
duction, processing and transportation costs necessary to obtain the in-
crease. Details of costs and benefits, year by year, are shovn in Annex 6.
7.02      In view of the assurances to be obtained regarding provisions for
the maintenance of the irrigation systems included in the project, it is
very unlikely that the new Government would permit them, once rehabilitated,
to revert to their present condition. However, assuming for sivplieity's
sake that the systems were not maintained but were alloved to gradhally fill
with silt, so that benefits would decrease and finally disappear altogether
fifteen years after the completion of the project, the internal rate of
return to the economy on the investment cost of the project would still
be about 50 percent. The rates of return on individual systems would
range from 37 percent to 71 percent.
7.03      These high rates of return reflect the nature of the investment,
i.e., eliminating the backlog of deferred maintenance and thus breaking
the bottleneck which has been steadily choking off rice production in these
areas. If, as is expected, the Indonesian authorities will not allow the
systems to revert to their present condition, but will henceforth embark
on an effective program of irrigation maintenance in these areas, the bene-
fits would continue indefinitely and the return to the economR would be
even higher. On the other hand, even if the execution of the project fell
behind schedule for some re,ason, say due to failure to achieve the machine
operation target of 2000 hours a year, the rate of return would still be
high.
7.O4      Equally important, however, is the fact that, once these areas
are provided with adequate irrigation and drainage systems, it will then
become economically feasible to employ other modern inputs, such as those
contained in the BIMAS package. In this way the direct benefits of the
project may lead to other even greater benefits by making it worthvhile
and possible for farmers to use a variety of purchased inputs to comple-
ment the irrigation water and further increase their yields.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      In view (a) of the urgent and high priority need for the re-
habilitation of the irrigation systems .and the prevention of their fnt1her
deterioration, and (b) of the fact that the equipment requirements can be
estimated reasonably well in advance of engineering studies, the appraisal
of the proposed project did not await the kind of information which is
normally available at a more advanced state of project preparation; much
of this information will become available only after-the proposed credit



- 19 -
is signed. The project would enable the Indonesian Government to make an
early start with some of the more urgent works of rehabilitation and com-
pletion while drawing up an expanded program for the future. The project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.0 milliori.
8.02      Among others, assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a) Any equipment to be financed under the project would be
utilized at the optimum rate (para 4.06);
(b) As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would retain
a consulting firm, acceptable to the Association (para 4.14);
(c) Project accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor mutually acceptable to the Government and the Association
(para 4.16);
(d) District authorities would be responsible to and follow
instructions from the provincial Directors of Public Works in
all matters relating to the project, particularly the rehabili-
tation of the tertiary canals (para 5.03);
(e) In each district included in the project, a substantial
contribution would be made by the farmers toward the cost
of irrigation operation and maintenance, and the Central and
Provincial Governments would make up any shortfalls by
provision from their own budget revenues (para 5.05);
(f) In Way Seputih a water charge would be instituted on an
experimental basis which would permit the full recovery of
the costs of operation and maintenance of the irrigation
system (para 5.05); and
(g) In the part of each irrigation system rehabilitated or
completed during each successive dry season, the BIMAS
package would be made available (para 5.06).
August 14)t 1968






ANNEX 1
Mae
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURE
A. BJXAS and INMAS
1.        Low rice yields are the principal problem of peasant agri-
culture in Indonesia. The present estimated yield is 1.35 m tons of
rice per hectare, equivalent to half a ton per acre. These low yields
are of particular importance in Java with its dense rural population
and small size of individual rice holding. There is substantial
evidence that on at least 1.9 million ha of irrigated rice in Java
yields have fallen over the past thirty years, as a result of the
deterioration of the irrigation systems through lack of maintenance,
and these yields are still slowly falling. In Java, there is no idle
rice land which could be biought into cultivation to offset declining
yields. The problem is therefore how to increase productivity per
hectare.
2.        A prerequisite for optimum rice yields is an adequate
supply of water in sufficient quantity at the right time. Yields can
then be further increased by the application of further inputs such as
improved varieties, fertilizers, insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides,
and adequate extension advice.
3.        With the aim of increasing productivity per hectare the
Indonesian Government has developed a scheme to increase rice produc-
tion on areas where there is an adequate water supply thro-ughout the
growing season of the crop, popularly known as the BIMAS scheme.  The
scheme involves extension advice and the application of a package of
inputs consisting of seed of improved varieties, 75 kg per ha of urea,
50 kg per ha of double superphosphate or 100 kg per ha of fused
magnesium phosphate, 2½ liters of Endrin per ha, 100 gm per ha of zinc
phosphide and spraying equipment, financed by a crop loan for seven
months at an interest rate of three percent per month. The package is
only applied to selected groups of farmers who have rice land that is
adequately watered. Extension advice is given by agricultural students,
theoretically at a rate of one for every 50 ha. The students have more
than made up in their enthusiasm for what they lack in experience, and
their advice has been generally well received by farmers.



ANNEX 1
Page2
4.       BIMAS developed fran the "Paddr Central program which was
organized in 1960 to increase rice yields in Java and which was
abandoned in l964. The lesscs learned in this failure were taken
into account by the organizers of BIMAS, namely the need to con-
centrate inputs where land and water conditions were most prcmising.
The under-lying idea behind BIMAS is that with proper care and
attention plus adequate irrigation, the package of inputs will result.
in increasing yields by one m ton of rice per ha. This theory was
tested in numerous field trials which confirmed its technical sound-
ness. As the area under BINAS has been expanded to 400i,000 ha in the
1967/68 wet season, the expected increased yield has decreased same-
what owing to greater variation in soils and irrigation efficiency as
the area expanded. In consequence, a minimum increase in yield of
half a ton of rice per ha, as a result of B11L4A inputs, has been
assumed in this report.
5.       The composition of the BILAS package and its application in
each Province is the responsibility of a Provincial ccmmittee, ehaired
by the Dean of the Faculty of Agriculture of the Provincial University.
Other members include representatives of agriculture, public works,
local government and credit organizations but not marketing.
6.       In order to demonstrate to farmers the benefits of BIKAS, the
policy has been to provide any one group of selected farmers with BD(AS
for one year and then to move to another area. Since 1967, groups of
farmers who have received BIHAS can then participate in the follow-up
program, which is known as I0L1AS. In this program, the package of
inputs remains the same as for BI2AS, the cost of the fertilizers
being subsidized, as in BIKAS, by Government, but without Government
credit for the package and without extension advice. The INKAS pro-
gram is a logical step forward following BIMAS, credit, where neces-
sary, being supplied from sources other than Government., There is no
need for specific extension advice as the lessons are demonstrated to the
farmer in the BIMAS program. If necessary, the farmer can always
obtain advice from the normal district extensiom service.  Yields from
the INHAS program are similar to that for BIMAS. The area under INNAS
in 1967/68 wet season was 375,000 ha.
7.      The effect of the BIMAS and INMAS programs for the 1967/68
wet season should be at least 400,,OO  m tons of rice, an increase of
four percent on an estimated crop of ten nd.llion m tons.
8.      There is no doubt that provided the irrigation systems in
Java were rehabilitated and BIMAS followed by INMAS were applied
throughout, following rehabilitation, the present shortfall of rice



ANNEX 1
Page 3
could be turned at least into self-sufficiency. The yield benefits
of BIMAS and INMAS cannot, however, be applied on a large scale to
the irrigatioa systems in their present state without losing some
of the potential yield increase because of water stress in the crop.
B. Agriculture in the Project Areas
Climate, Topograp}y and Soils
9.         The schemes are situated in the wet, humid, insular tropics,
south of the equator with a distinct wet season from November/December
to April/May and a dry season for the remainder of the year. The Way
Seputih and East Semarang schemes are located In the 2,000 _ 3,000 mm
rainfall belt, the remain jer in the 1,000 - 2,000 =m zone. Rainfall
in the wettest month, January, is 300-400 mm falling to 25-80 mm in
August. The schemes in Java are situated on the flat estuaries of
rivers, Ond contain alluvial and hydromorphic alluvial soils, there
being some black cotton soils in the East Semarang scheme. The soils
are very suitable for wet rice cultivation and with good land and
water management and the application of a nitrogenous fertilizer are
capable of producing good yields of rice. The Way Seputih scheme is
situated on a gently undulating peneplain; the soils are an easily
ultivated red-yellow podsolic sandy-silt, with a sub-soil that
becomes mtre impermeable with tine, under irrigation.  These .oils
will produce good crops of rice with adequate irrigation water and
good field lay-out. The application of fertilizers will be necessary
for optimum yields of rice as well as for dry farming crops of maize,
roots and tree crops. The soils would also benefit from the incorpora-
tion of crop residues and farmyard manure.
Population, Land Tenure and Communications
10.        The Way Seputih scheme has a ratio of population to cultivated
land of less than five persons per ha, while the Java schemes have a
density of more than ten. Way Seputih is a transmigration settlement
which is under direct Government management pending the completion of
the irrigation system, following which the titles to the farms of 2½ ha,
of which 1 ha will be irrigated land, will be handed over to the
settlers. All lands in the Java schemes are freehold and are farmed
either by the owner, on a share cropping basis or by tenants paying a
fixed rent. Land rents are equivalent to about cne ton of stalk paddy
per ha. The average holding size is two thirds of a hectare.  The road
systems within the schemes are inadequate both in quantity and quality as
are the means for getting about the schemes, other than an foot.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Cropping Pattern and Yields
11.      The cropping pattern on Way Seputih differs frao  that on the
Java schemes. The latter are designed primarily for the production of
wet rice with irrigation while, at Way Seputih, each fanm is designed
to provide the farmer with 1 ha of irrigated land and 1-1/2 ha of land
suitable for dry farming on which maize, root and tree crops can be
grown. Ch the Java schemes, a dry season crop of rice of about 4000,
ha is presently being cultivated. In the present state of the irriga-
timn systems, this crop is not getting sufficient water and yields are
accordingly depressed. The question arises as to whether the cultiva-
tion of a dry season crop of swamp rice is the best use that can be
made of the limited irrigation water available. The soils on all the
Java schemes are suited to tile cultivation of irrigated crops of maize,
legumes, vegetables, melons, etc., all of which would require less
irrigation water per ha than rice. Similarly, in Way Seputih, the
growing of crops, other than rice, in the dry season would permit a
larger area to be irrigated. 'Iith Government's preoccupation with
rice production, such a development might occur once the domestic rice
market is fully supplied by wet season crops. Similarly, the wet
seasan rice crops suffer generally from water stress, which results
in about a 15-20 percent reduction in yield, save for those areas
near headworks which receive adequate water.
12.      The main, wet season rice crop is planted in November to
January, depending on the rains. Because of the danger of flooding,
the planting season may extend to late March. This spreading of the
planting season undoubtedly depresses yields, as late planted crops
suffer from lack of water. The spreading of the harvest also aggra-
vates the pest and rat control problems.
13.      As a result of the BIMAS program, farmers are generally aware
of the benefits that wi34 accrue from the use of recommended varieties,
nitrogenous and phosphatic fertilizers, insecticides and rodenticides.
This program is anly being applied to very limited areas on each scheme
included in the project, however, because a prerequisite is an efficient
irrigation system.
14.      The Javanese peasant is a skilled rice cultivator and goes to
infinite pains to prepare his land, plant and tend his crop. Uader
present conditions he is unable to obtain the yields which the land is
capable of producing because of lack of sufficient water in the field at
the right time.  his deficiency also prevents him from taking advantage
of the still greater yields that he could obtain br using fertilizers,
insecticides, etc. Yield data supplied for each scheme varied con-
siderably. Yields in Java are estimated presently to average 1.35 m
tons of rice per ha in the wet seasmc, and 1.1 m tons in the dry season.
The yield of rainfed rice in Way Seputih is about one ton per hectare.



ANWEX 1
Page 5
Marketing, Credit and Transportation
15.       It is estimated that over 70 percent of the paddy produced
in Indonesia is hand-pounded, 20 percent is milled in rice hullers
and ten percent in rice mills.  The Government's policy is to reduce
the amount of hand-pounded paddy thereby reducing the ten percent
losses incurred in this method of milling.  The producer sells his
crop either as stalk paddy or as rice, after ketaining sufficient
for his own requirements.  The crop is stored at his house and
losses arising from such on_farm storage are estimated to be as
high as 20 percent. Many rice mills are in need of repair and ad-
justment and a feature of rice in country markets is the high
percentage of brokens. The rice mills would benefit frcm moderniza-
tion, centralization and improvement of drying ftcilities, particularly
in regard to seed paddy and early harvested wet season crops.
16.       There is a conspicuous lack of credit facilities available
to the peasant farmer together with a lack of an assured market for
his crop at remunerative, non-fluctuating prices. If a farmer is
fortunate enough to be selected for a BIAS project, he gets seven
months' credit for the BIMAS inputs and subsequently can obtain
inputs from the follow-up program. There is no other institutional
source of credit available to him. Interest rates are three percent
per month under BIMAS   There is no doubt that given adequate market
incentives, irrigation facilities and credit to purchase fertilizer
and other inputs, a major breakthrough in rice production could be
achieved under present conditions.
17.       Stalk paddy is transported from the field to the fanmer's
house by those harvesting the crop, either on their backs, on carry
poles, by bicycle or by cart. Transport from the farm to the rice
mill is by similar means. There is adequate road and rail transport
fram the schemes to the consuming centers.
Supporting Services
18.       In general, the supporting services available to the
farmer are poor and inadequate. The supply of fertilizers and in-
secticides is limited by lack of foreign exchange. The extension
services in agriculture and irrigation are short of adequately
trained and experienced staff and of tools with which to work. The
effectiveness of those available is further reduced by a lack of
transportation coupled with poor roads within the schemes.



ANNEX 1
7;43=0
19.       Both the Central Agricultural Research Institute and the
Soils Research Institute require streng-thening both in trained staff
and financially to enable applied research work on anl aspects of
the rice crop to be intensified, particularly rice breeding, field
testing of promising varieties and the production of seed paddy,
fertilizer requirements of the major soil types and the economics of
pest and rodent control.
May 24, 1968



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABTIaTATION PROJECT
CONSULTANTSI SERVICES
1.         The Government would its soon as possible retain a finr  of
consultants for the duration of the project. The duties and
services rendered by the consultants would be as followss
(a)  To review and analyze the design of the existing irriga-
tion systems, to redesign the systems where necessary
and to propose detailed procedures, equipment needs,
material requirements and cost estimates required
for the rehabilitation of each of the three schemes in
Java and for the completion of the Way Seputih schemne.
(b) To advise on and supervise the rehabilitation work, in
direct association with Provincial Directors of Public
Works.
(c)  To study and advise on management, operation and
maintenance of each scheme and to make recommendations
for improving these functions and for recovering the
costs of operation and maintenance; and to assist in
implementing desired changes.
(d)  To advise on and to review organizing, managing, equip-
ping and operating mobile and fixed workshops in each
of the three Provinces, to make recommendations
for improvement and to assist in implementing desired
reorganizations.
(e) To organize and supervise in-service training of person-
nel at all levels, both in the field and in the workshop,
and in spare parts and material stores.
(f)  To devise, organize and supervise suitable accounting
systems, for the work of rehabilitation, including
operation of workshops, equipment and maintenance and
spare parts and material procurement, stocking and
disbursement.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(g) To identify other irrigation schemes in urgent need
of rehabilitation, particularly on Java, review each
scheme, redesign same as may be necessary and submit
detailed plans for their rehabilitation together vith
estimates of equipment, materials and costs with an
econnic appraisal of each scheme.
(h)  To establish stream rating surveys and measuring
stations and to initiate techniques for assessing,
measuring and recording flows In rivers, canals and
drainage channels for each of the schemes in the
project, including the setting up of recording stations
and training local personnel in their use, as well as
for schemas identified for future rehabilitation.
2.        Because of the urgent need to assist Indonesia in increasing
its rice production, it will be necessary to proceed with the purchase
of basic equipment, such as small dredgers, draglines, crawler tractors,
etc., before the consultants have had time to review the systems in
detail., if a start is to be made on the more obvious rehabilitation
work in the 1969 dry season, which extends fron April to November.
In consequence, the consultants will have to be in the field in October/
November 1968 if they are to have sufficient time to prepare a pre-
liminary plan for the rehabilitat4on work to be undertaken by the
equipment in the 1969 dry season.
3.        ALL the rehabilitation work on the systems will perforce
have to be carried out in the dry season if there is to be no inter-
ference with rice production in the main crop season. After the
first year, it should be possible to utilize certain of the equipmant
in the wet season on cleaning drainage outlets, dikes, etc., without
interfering with rice production.
4.        The consultants will decide on the number and types of staff
required to carry out their assigment. However, it is considered
essential that their staff in the field should include, for the dur#-
tion of the project, an operation and maintenance expert with broad
experience of surface irrigation systems and an experienced economist.
A technical eng:neer with experience of earthmoving machinery and
workshop operatLon is Lso essential as well as a design engineer
experienced in surface irrigation works.
may 214, 1968



ANNEX 3
page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHAEIIITATION PROJECT
PROJECT WORKS
1.         The estimates of the work required for the various systems
were prepared on the basis of very limited data and verbal information.
The Missionts observations contributed to the estimate of the condition
of the canals and structures for the portions of the systems visited.
The estimates represent, at best, only an educated guess of the magni-
tude of the work required.
2.         The selection of the amount and kinds of equipment for
handling the work and the means for performing the excavations were
based on the expected magnitude of the job, on the sizes of the canals
and drainage channels to be cleaned, on the accessibility and working
space for operating the equipment and on the availability of workers
for doing the excavation by hand labor. The amount of equipment
allotted to each area was determined from the type of operation ex-
pected to be employed and on the total silt, etc. to be removed. It
was contemplated that the machines would be put to efficient use on a
double shift basis, with at least ten hours per day and a 200 day per
year operating schedule. This would require trained and skilled
operators and competent supervisory direction of the work together with
good operation and maintenance and repair facilities.
3.         Quantity estimates were based on stated lengths of each of
the various sized canals in the system and on the estimated amount of
silt deposit now in each of the canals or on estimated rates of silt
deposition supplied. Other work items were estimated from observed
conditions and on the basis of facts and figures provided by the Direc-
torate of Irrigation as to the work requirements for constructing
flood control dikes and revetments, making structure repairs or replace-
ments, etc.
4.         Unit prices for machine excavations were determined from a
breakdown of hourly equipment charges, operator and supervisory person-
nel costs, administrative overhead costs, etc.  Unit prices for hand
labor were determined from prevailing wage rates, or from cost evalua-
tions based on Food for Work programs, self help programs, etc.
5.         A brief description and estimate of the earthwork program
for each of the Project areas follows: (A list of equipment is contained
in Table 1.)



Page 2
A. The East Semarang Systems
6.         The area is located in the Province of Central Java on the
plain between the rivers Tuntang and Serang (see Map 2). There are two
sub-divisions of this area, Sedadi (22,600 ha) and Glapan (20,000 ha).
7.         The Sedadi unit diverts its water from the Serang River whose
average daily flow is 27 m3/second in the wet season and 4 m3/second in
the dry season. There are 22,600 ha of land irrigated in the wet season
and no land irrigated in the dry season. WIater was first applied to the
land in 1859.
8.        The Glapan system diverts from the Ttmtang river, whose average
daily flow is 27 m-3/second in the wet season and 4 m/second in the dry
season. The total irrigated area of Glapan is 20,000 ha during the wet
season and 4,000 ha during the dry season. Water was first applied to
land in Glapan Timur in 1853 and Glapan Barat in 1875. This Project
comprises scme of the oldest irrigated land on Java.
9.        There is a total of 68 km of primary canals, 93 km of secondary
canals and 200 km of tertiary canals. For the purpose of this report the
primary and secondary canals were estimated to have only 30 percent of their
original capacity.  There is an estimated 755,000 m3 of silt removal
required in primary and secondary canals, including 130,000 m3 of excava-
tion by hand labor. The tertiary system is estimated to require 100,000
m3 of excavation. It is estimated that 1,300,000 m3 of excavation will
be necessary to enlarge a waterway channel, used as a drainage outlet.
B. The Rentang System
10.        The Rentang System is located in the north-eastern portion of
West Java (see Map 3). The system receives its water from the Tjimanuk
River, whose average daily flow is 250 m3/second in the wet season and
5-10 m3/second in the dry season. Water was first placed on the land in
1914, and the sy'tem was one of the more productive rice areas of Java
before its deterioration. The irrigated area comprises 91,000 ha. The
deterioration of the system has resulted in flood damage to large areas
of rice planting as well as endangering life in the city of Indramaju.
31.        The regulating controls of the diversion dam are in poor
condition and do not control flood flows, thus endangering the entire
dam. The present system of using stop logs with lifting chains is not
only dangerous but basically too slow a control for passing flood flows.
The present condition of the stop logs and chains is such that it is



ANNEX 3
Page 3
almost impossible to raise or lower the water surface in cases of
emergency. They must be replaced by a more reliable control system.
12.        Canal freeboards did not appear to be badly encroached, but
flows have obviously been restricted by silt deposits. Control devices
on turnouts were in poor condition and the system flow appeared to be
restricted by structure design.
13.        The Tjipelang primary canalts or:ginal capacity was 31 m3/
second but it is now estimated to have a capacity of 20 m'/,second or 65
percent and the full technical irrigated area has been reduced from
35,000 hZ to 22,500 ha. The Sindupradja primary canalts original capacity
was 56 m /second but it is now estimated to have only 45 percent of the
capacity or 25 m3/second thus reducing the irrigated area from 56,000 ha
to 33,500 ha.
14.        There is a total of 119' lkm of primary canal, 545 km of secondary
canal and an estimated 700 km of tertiary canal. For rehabilitation of
the systeem it is estimated that 3,675,000 m3 of excavation over a five-
year period will be required, including 350,000 m3 of excavation by manual
labor on the tertiary system.
C. The Tjisedane System
15.        The Tjisedane System is located on the northern coast of West
Java only 40 km from Djakarta (see Map 4). Water was first placed on
the land in 1932. The ultimate development envisions 40,000 ha of which
33,500 ha are now being irrigated. An additional 6,500 ha can be added
to the present system by removal of an earth slide in one of the primary
canals, construction of 4 km of new canal and cleaning 4 km of the exist-
ing primary canal. Of the 6,500 ha, 4,000 ha are presently being irrigated
by water from another source. By extending the Tjisedane system, water
for 4,000 ha can be released for other development and an additional
2,500 ha of land can be brought in.
16.        Water is diverted from the Tjisedane River and the average
daily flow is 60 m3/second in the wet season and 18 m3/second in the
dry season. The diversion dam is 122.5m long and regulates the river
flow by use of ten lOm x 9m lift gates.  There is a total length of
88 km of primary canal (including the 4 km of new construction) varying
in capacity from less than 5 m3/second to 24 m3/second. In addition
there is an estimated 105 km of secondary canals and an estimated 200 km
of tertiary canals.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
17.        The canal system was estimated to be 30 percent silted
with an average loss of 40 percent of canal capacity.  To rehabilitate
the system wiU require removal of 1,236,000 m3 of silt, 34,000 m3 new
construction and an annual program of 380,000 m3 of silt removal to
maintain the system. By use of two draglines and one dredger, the
rehabilitation of the earth sections of canal can be completed in a
two-year period and the equipment will be sufficient for a continuing
program of maintenance for three additional years. Gates on the dam
need repair in the form of wheels, bearings, and skin plates. There
is need for a standby generator to provide power to the lift gates.
P. The Way Seputih System
18.        This system is located in Lampung Province in southern
Sumatra and receives its water froa the Way S&putih river (see map 5).
The project is now under construction and designed to serve the settle-
ment of transmigrants from Java. The total area to be irrigated under
the present design is 25;,000 ha. The design capacity of the primary
canal is 25 i4second and the average daily flow of the river is 60 m.3/
secand in the wet season and about 4.5 m3second in the dry season. The
present system is so far using only 1.0 m./second to irrigate about 1,000ba.
19.        Most of the previous excavation work has been done by hand
labor with help of same earthmoving equipment. The work on the project
began in 1956. The diversion dam and intake were finished four years
ago. The main canal construction has been ccmpleted for 15 km. Suffi-
cient equipment has beea requested to construct 4.5 km of primary canal
and 7 km of secondary canal entailing the moving of 650,00o m3 of exca-
vation in one season. This construction would serve 2,000 ha of land..
20.       To complete the system 29.5 kIm of primary canal and 71.0 km of
secondary canal must be constructed. The total system will require
3,310,000 m3 of excavation including an estimated 100,000 m3 of tertiary
canal excavatiom.
May 24, 1968



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
LIST OF T2IPHBNT
(all amounts US$)
Cost
Unit Cost                                                                           Total                                               Inland       Including
CIF D.jakarta                                                                       Nusber  -                                           Delivery     Duty and
Including 20%                                                                       of Pieces        Total Cost                         to Job       Inland
Item of Equipment                  Spare Parts         E. Semarang       Rentang       TJisedane       Way Seputih      of Equipment     CIF Djakarta      Import Duty      Site         Delivery
Rate      Cost
DREDGER - 8 cutter                   100,000            100,000          200,000       100,000             -                4            400,000         10%     40,000    80,000        520,0O0
DRAGLIHES
5/8 c.y. v/401' Boom                b0,000              -                -            40,000             -                1             40,000         20%      8,000      8,000        56,000
3/b c.y. w/55' Boom                 48,000             48,000           48,000        48,000          96,000              5            240,000         20%     48,000    48,000        336,000
1 c.y. w/70' Boom                   58,000             58,000           58,000          -                -                2            116,000         20%     23,200    23,200        162,400
TRACTOR-D0ZER
CrGwler - 120 Hp/winch              43,000             43,000           43,000        43,000             -                3            129,000         20%     25,800    25,800        180,600
Crawler - 160 Hp                    53,000              -                 -             -            212,000              4            212,000         20%     42,400    42,400        296,800
Crawler - 160 Hp w/Push plate/Ripper 53,000             -                 -             -             53,000              1             53,000         20%     10,600    10, 600        74,200
PULL SCRAPERS
12 - 17 c.y.                        24,000              -                 -             -             96,000              4             96,o0o         20%      19,200    19,200       '34,bOO
DUNP TRUCKS
3.5 c.y. w/8 Ton Hoist               7,000             84,000           42,000        42,000          42,000             30            210,000         10%      21,000    42,000       273,000
PATROL-MOTOR ORADER
Tanden drive - 120 Hp               29,000             29,000           29,000          -             29,000              3             87,000         20%      17,100    17,400       121,800
INSPECTION CARS
4 x 4 3/4 Ton                        3,600              7,200           10,800         7,200           7,200              9             32,hO0          40%     12,960     6,480        51,840
15WIPMENT TRANSPORTER
Tractor Lwboy Diesel - 25T          30,000             30,0°°             -             -             30,000              2             60,000          lo%      6,000    12,000        78,000
CON CRETE ?41=
250 L - Gas                          4,2G0              8,400            8,1.00        4,200           8,400              7             29,400          20%      5,880     5,880        41,160
ODMPRESSORS
105 CF1/with Tools                   4,800              9,600            9,6DD         4,800           9,600              7              33,600         10%      3,360     6,720         43,680
PUMPS
3' intake - 4' Discharge             3,000              6,ooo            6,ooo         3,000           3,000              6              18,000         10%      1,800     3,600         23,400
YMOBZE SHOP
4 x 6 - 2 Ton Cosplete              30,000             30,000           30,000        30,000          30,000               4            120,000         30%     36,0oo    24,000        180,000
STATIONART SHOP
Mechanical Equipment                 50,000            50,000             -            50,000          50,000              3            150,000         20%     30,000    30,000        210,000
MAERIAIS                                -                60,000j         110,000        80,000         115,00C                            365,ooo         10%     36,500    73,000        474,500
563,200          596,80,       452,200         781,200                         2,391,400                388,100   478,280      3,257,780
F-7AL 2M?CPR- 77'T - INIAND DELIVERY                    200,76,          206,320       162,31O         296,960
TCTAL A_' COSTS                                       763,960          801,120       614,540       1,078,160                          2,391,400                388,100   478,280      3,257,780
_                   _             _             -      __                                                                                   w  






INDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(aol amounts in US$ '000)
Foreign      Local        Total Cost                          Total Cost
Exchange    Currency       Excluding                           Including
Costs       Costs       Contingencies    Continencies    Contingencies
Machinery and Equipment
(including spares and service)
Dredgers                                            400         120              520                80               600
Draglines                                           396         158             554                 91               645
Tractors                                            394         158             552                 90               642
Scrapers                                             96           38            134                 22               156
Trucks                                              210          63             273                42                315
Graders                                              87           35            122                 20               142
Inspection Cars                                      32          19              52                  9                61
Equipment Transporters                               60          18               78               12                 90
Concrete Mixers                                      29          12              41                  7                48
Compressors                                          34          10               44                 7                51
Pumps                                                18            5             23                  4                27
Mobile Repair Shops                                 120           60             180                31               21
Stationary Repair Shops                             150          60             210                 34               244
Total:                                            2,026          757          2,783               1449            3,232
Materials and Supplies                                 365          110             475                73               548
Operation and Maintenance of
Machinery and Equipment                              -        1,356           1,356                387             1,743
Direct Labor
Force Account                                        -           822            822                234             1,056
Tertiary Canals                                      -          213             213                61                274
Total:                                               -        1,035           1,035               295             1,330
Consultants' Services                                1, 250        417           1,667                256             1,923
Total Excluding Contingencies                        3,641       3,675           7,316
Contingencies                                          360       1,100                             1h6                        -
Total Including Contingencies                          1,5                                                            8 776    m
Percentage                                              46           5483                            17                100   H=
Note: Discrepancies due to rounding.
August 2, 1968



A    4
TabLe 2
MNDONESIA
IRRIGATION REHABIIMTATION
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURE INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(all amounts in US$'000's)
Year 1  Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Yea 5        Total
East Semarang:
Machinery and Equipment                 796       -       -        -                796
Materials                                45      15      12        9       9         90
Cleaning of Tertiaries                    9       9       9       9        9         45
Direct Labor on Force Account            73      35      29      26       26        190
Operation of Machinery and Equipment    49       48      48      48       48        240
Total:                                 972     107       98      92    __        1,361
Rentang:
Machinery and Equipment                 763       -       -       -        _        763
Materials                               105      23      20      12        6        165
Cleaning of Tertiaries                   31      31      31      31      31         157
Direct Labor Force Account              159      48      39      33       25        304
Operation of Machinery and Equipment   105      105     105     105      35         456
Total:                               1          2195            181      97
Tjisedane:
Machinery and Equipment                 593       -       -       -        -        593
Materials                                48      26      17      15      15         120
Cleaniag of Tertiaries                   22      22       9       9        9         72
Direct Labor on Force Account            70      51      43      42      42         247
Operation of Machinery and Equipment    66       63      66      66      66         326
Total:                                 799      162     135     132     132      1,358
Way Seputih:
Machinery and Equipment              1,080        -       -       -        -      1,080
Materials                                35      35      35      35       35        173
Direct Labor on Force Account           63       63      63      63      63         315
Operation of Machinery and Equipment   145    1144      144     144     144         721
Total:                               1,323      242     242     242     242       2,289
All Systems:
Machinery and Equipment               3,232       -       -       -        -      3,232
Materials                               233      98      83      71       65        548
Cleaning of Tertiaries                  63       63      49      49      49         274
Direct Labor on Force Account           364     197     174     164     156       1,056
Operation of Machinery and Equipment  365       360     363      6      292       1743
Total:                               4,257      718     669     647     562       6,853
Consultants' Services                  614      615     231     232     231       1,923
Total Cost:                          14,87    1,333     900     879     793       8,776
Notes Discrepancies due to rouncing.
August 2, 1968



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDCNESIA
IRIGATICN REiABIITAIION PROJECT
PRODUCTION, INPUTS AND FAR4ERSO INCCgE
1.         The yield data supplied for these schaems showed considerable
variation, and as a result, it has been necessary to conservatively
eatimate the present rice yields per hectare, which are 1.35 m tons per
ha of rice for wet season crops, 1.1 m tons per ha for dry season crops,
and 1.0 m tons per ha for the rainfed crops in Way Seputih. Cnce the
schemes are rehabilitated it is estimated that they should produce
average yields of 1.5 m tons of rice per ha in the wet season and 1.35 m
tons per ha in the dry. The application of the BIMAS inputs should
result in average yields of not less than 2 m tons of rice per ha in the
wet season and 1.75 m tons per hla in the dry.
2.         Bearing in mind the current area being planted to rice in the
dry season and the limited water available, it is considered that the
Increase in production in the dry season crop can be discounted when
calculating the changes in yield and in production following rehabilita-
tion and for the table only wet seasmn crop yields have been used.
Increases in Yield
3.         The rehabilitation of the three schemes in Java and the com-
pletion of Way Seputih, totalling 198,000 ha will lead to an increase
in production of rice of the order of 15 percent and to an increase of
53 percent, if the BIMAS inputs are added following rehabili-.:ation. The
increase in production in Java will result from more efficient irriga-
tion, both in quantity and time of application, while in Way Seputihs
the increase will be entirely due to the supply of adequate irrigation
water to an area presently producing upland rice or other crops. The
changes in yields and production following rehabilitation are illustrated
below:



Table 1
AR$A. YIELDS AND PRODUCTlIN
Present Production
Yields          Production
Area          Rice              Rice
Scheme                     ha         m tuns/ha          m tons
_o, ( s)                        ('000S)
1.  East Semarang          42.0         1.35               57.0
2.  Rentang                91.0         1435              123.0
3. Tjisedane               37.5         1.35               51.0
2.5         1.00                2.5
4. iWay Seputih            24.0         1.00               24.0
1.0         1.50                1.5
TOTAL:                    198.0                           259.0
Production After Rehabilitation
1. East Semarang           42.0         1.5                63.0
2 . Rentang                91.0         1.5               137.0
3.  Tjisedne               40.0         1.5                60.0
4. Way Seputih             25.0         1.-5               37.5
TOTAL:                   198.0                            297.5
Total Benefit of Rehabilitation:                           38$
Production After Rehabilitation with BIMAS Inp-ts
1.  East Semarang          42.0         2.0                84.0
2.  Rentang                91.0         2.0               182.0
3.  Tjisedane              40.0         2.0                80.0
4. Way Seputih             25.0         2.0                50.0
TOTAL:                    198.0                           397.0
Gross Benefit of Rehabilitation
Elus B3IMAS Inputs                                      138.0



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Inputs and Costs of Production
4.        It is estimated that the cost of, production at farm-gate for
an owner-cultivator producing rice on the schemes under consideration
is equivalent to 44 percent of the gross value of the crop which, on
the average yield in Java of 1.35 m tons per ha, results in a net return
to the owner-cultivator of 0.75 m tons per ha. In Java, the additional
harvesting cost following rehabilitation amounts to ten percent of the
increase in production, and, with a yield increase of 0.15 m tons per
ha, the additional net return to the farmer is 0.135 tons per ha. In
Way Seputih, the cost of production at farm-gate is equivalent to 55
percent of the gross value of the crop, the net return to the farmer
being 0.45 m tons of rice per hq; after rehabilitation, the additional
harvesting cost is equivalent to ten percent, as in Java, and the
additional net return to the farmer is 0.45 m tons per ha. If the BIMAS
inputs are added following rehabilitation, the fann-gate productiaa cost
will fall to only 40 percent of the gross value of the crop in both Java
and Way Seputih, giving an overall net return of 1.2 m tons of rice per
ha. Details are given in Table 2.
5.        In Java, the schemes are fanmed by two basic types of farmers,
the owner-cultivator and the share cropper. In share cropping, the
harvest is shared on a basis of 50:50. The landlord provides the land,
seed, fertilizers, insecticides, rodenticides, and pays the land tax;
the share cropper provides all other services and the crop at harvest is
divided as stalk paddy. At Way Seputih, the scheme will be farmed by
owner-cultivators. In the following tables, the estimated costs of
production of rice for both types of farmer are given together with the
net return per hectare:



ANNX 5
Page 4
Table 2
COST OF PRODUCTION
(in rice equivalents)
JAVA                    WAY SEPUTIX
Owner-                                   Ouner-
Cultivator   Share Cropper   Landowner   Cultivator
Rice kg/ha       Rice kg/ha  Rice  kg/ha  R
Present Situation:
Gross Return            1,350.0       675.0          675.0       1,000.0
Cost of Procduction:
Nursery                  30.0        17.5          12.5           30.0
Land Preparation        175.0       175.0             _          175.0
Transplanting            30.0        30.0                         30.0
ieeding                  62.5        62.5             -           62.5
Irrigation               37.5        37.5             -           37.5
Bird Scaring             19.0        19.0             _           19.0
Harvest (10%)           135.0       135.0                        100.0
Total Cost:            4139.0       476.5           12.4554 O
Land Tax                  100.0          -           100.0         100.0
Total Cost Including Tax 589.0        476.5         U12.5          554.0
Net Return per Hectare    761.0       198.5         562.5          446.o
After Rehabilitation:
Gross Return            1,500.0       750.0          750.0       1,500.0
Cost of Production
(see above)             489.0       476.5          12.5          454.0
Add. Harvest Costs (10%)   15.0        15.0             _           50.0
Total Cost:               50    b     41             12.5          504-0
Land Tax                  100.0          -          100.0          100.0
Total Cost Including Tax 604.0        491.5         112.5          60o4.0
Net Return per Hectare    896.0       258.5         637.5          896.o
After Rehabilitation with BHMAS Inputss
Gross Return            2,000.0     1,000.0       1,000.0        2,000.0
Cost of Production
(see above)             489.0       476.5          12.5         454.0
Add. Costs:
Fertilizers              77.5        25.0          52.5           77.5
Pest Control             38.0        15.0           23.0          38.0
Rodent Control           27.0        25.0            2.0          27.0
Transport of Inputs       0.5          -            0.5            0.5
Interest on Inputs       16.5          -           16.5           16.5
Add. Harvest Costs (10%)  65.0         65.0                        100.0
Total Cost:               713.5       6Y65          107.0          'n3.5
Land Tax                  100.0          -          100.0          100.0
Total Cost Including Tax              7             207.0          813.5
Net Return per Hectare  1,186.5       393.5          793.0
_ __



ANNEX 5
Page 5
6.        The estimated cost of transport to the mill and milling charges
are equivalent to two and three and three-quarters percent of the crop
respectively, the miller retAining the bran and fine tbrokens.
7.        Some difficulty was experienced in obtaining information on the
taxes paid by farmers. The tax paid by all cultivators was devised by
the Central Government and is knoiwn as I.P.D. It is administered by the
Province for the benefit of the Province. The tax collected is divided
up between the Province, a Regional Development Bank, or some such
organization, the District and the Village. In South Sumatra and Central
Java the respective allocations are ten percent, ten percent, 40 percent
and 40 percent. In West Java, tbe District receives only 20 percent and the
Village's share is increased to 60 percent. The amount of the annual tax is
determined by the Provincial legislature each year as are the proportions
allocated to the District and Village. Similarly, the tax received at
the Village and District levels can be allocated to various works each
year. No fixed allocations appear to be made for the maintenance of
irrigation systems. As from this year, the tax is to be paid in cash.
The rate of tax is determined by the class of land, first quality paddy
land paying more. The rates in each area vary, but are usually five to
ten percent of the value of production. Tax is also collected on other
cultivated land, unproductive land and house lots.
8.        As an illustration, in Indramaju, the tax paid was claimed to
be about ten percent of production per ha and the tax rates in 1967 were
as follows:
Tax
Kg Dry Stalk Paddy
Class of Land                         Per Ha
1st                                200
2nd                                175
3rd                                150
4th                                125
5th                                100
6th                                 75
There was provision for exemption from tax following a disaster, such
as a flood, or a reduction in tax following a bad crop.
May 24., 1968






IDONZS IA
IRRIGATION REKABILITATION
ECONOMIC COSTS AID BMNEFITS
(all amounts in US$ '000's)
East Semarang                  Rentang                Tisedane                 jay Seoutih             All Systems
Net     1/       2/      NIet             2/       Net 1 /          2/       Net 1/            2/    Net      1/       2/
Year     Benefits   Costs         Benefits   Costs          Benefits   Costs          Benefits   Costs         Benefits   Costs
1          -        887            -        1,080             -        732               -      1,191            -       3,890
2        161        106          3L7          205           381        160             303        2)0        1,192         711
3        321         97          696          19)           887        13L              606        240        2,508        665
b         482        91        1,o1          180           887        131              o08        2)0        3,318        6)42
5        6L2         91        1,388           97           887        131           1,211        2)40        ,128         559
6        803          -        1,735            -           887          -           1,51h           -        4,939         -
7        675                   1,258                        NO3                      1,3L7                   3,923
8        5r                     &621                        h2l                      1,196                   3,003
9        458                     8843                       222                      1,060                    2,17!
10        377                     130                         67                        95L                    1,52c
11        297                       -                          -                         8)8                  1,
12        233                                                                            757                     990
13        161                                                                           6o9                      82o
14       112                                                                           6o5                      717
530                     53'
16          -                                                                                                    h6caD%
17                                                                                       L2)                     42L
16                                                                                      37&                      378
19                                                                                      ,33                      333
20                                                                                      303                      303
Internal
Late of
,e ?r.a     37                      56                         71                         47                      51
(percent)
/  As -.inj a r_-.e of TS$_ 70 p?- '- s^r.      ilTe`  ri7e, cif D,akarta.
?/  Excluding imnport duties.
'3.  Te <.e    i             a. a _;-a af;er . .e ccrDetior  of the pro<ect.   I  is acs-a,ied3 that no maantenance  _
perfor,i.c  on t'ne ca-.aI-s a   ;ha: -hs c    rate  Sf Siltation is sesve- rer Ce-t of t-he cross-SeC 4:n area.
24,






INDONESIA: IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
[        MINISTER OF                                                                               MINISTER OF
PUBLIC WORKS                                                                          INTERNAL AFFAIRS
DIRECTOR GENERAL                                                                              PROVINCIAL
_~       OF WATER RESOURCES                                                                               GOVERNOR
DIRECTOR OF            DIRECTOR OF                                    INTTT    F---------                                                   PROVINCIAL                                    RSDN
LOGISTICAL      -     SURVEYS AND               PROJECT              INTTT   FDIRECTOR OFDIETRO
AFFAIRS                PLANNING             CONUTNTDAERVESOURCESNT                            IRRIGATION       -     -aPUBLIC WORKS
DEVELOPMENT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ EGN
IRRIGATION SYSTEM                                    (DISTRICT) 
Procurement and                               Engineering Studies,                             Overall Technical                            Execution of                 I               Rehobilitation of
Mointenance of                                 Plan of Operation                               Supervision of                               Project Works in             I               Tertiary Canals in
Equipment                                      and Expanded                                    Project Execution                            Ech System                        --         Each System
Rehabilitation
Program
ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY
- -_-  - T ECHNICAL SUPERVISION
May 1968                                                                                                                                                                                                    (R)IBRD-3850






MARTAPURA
ME NGGA LA
I N DONESIA
WAY SEPUTIH                                                                                                                                                    ILITATION
IRPHRIASE,  A                                                                                                     IRRIGATION  REHABILITATION
10, 000ha                           SUKADANA
TEGINENENG        t_
NG
TANDJUNGKARA                                          I
KOTAAGUNG                                                                             4
T ELUKBETUN .
KALIANDA            TJISDANE
IRRIGATION AREA
. MEAK -MER. 40, 0h IRhA
t UDJUNGG~~~~~~~~~~~ENTEN JKDANG t<ZPR~/
IRRIGATION AREA
TANGERANG                                                                                                           EAST SEIMARANG
INDRAMASU                                           IRRIGATION AREA
LN D1 ABUHCEAN                                                                                                                                  4000U A  I        AKA
MAY 1968                                                                                                   IBRD - 2295
-V  UDJUNGGFNTENG                     TJIKADJANG                                                   PURBOLINTJIREBO
TJIHARANGAAN<...                                                                                                           AELN
TJIBADMUGPU    ..                         TIJUAG .. .~ .
Td ~IIELUK PE .A.  .HAN RATULATJASEMARANG
*  MALAYSIA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIJ                                                              dO-
JK.                                                       __~~~~~~UJNGETNG         APRSLNG
MAIN ROADS                                                         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>.>MGEAN
0    -~~~~~~
A---- ~ ~~~S2AO             AO                         I-----I----  A  WY
d                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
OCEAN ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~0                                                                           5 0            1 00             1 50
MAY 19680BD 29






INDONESIA
SEMARANG IRRIGATION
AREA  (42,000 HA)
-----PRIMARY CANALS
- X  _  __-.SECONDARY CANALS
S                                       ___ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~----_ _DAM
-----PROJECT AREA
RAILROAD
-A____MAIN ROADS
a 1BENGKAL ,o_-- - NAMED TOWNS
ANJANJA R
7                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILALUN
GUL~~~~~~~~~~~~L
K} AT                                                   'q WEI
Ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  SEDADeI >
2         6              I I6KILOMETERS   *  E
MAY 1968
IBRD-2315






INDONESIA
RENTANG   IRRIGATION
AREA  (91,000 HA)
-  --- .PRIMARY CANALS
- - -    -....SECONDARY  CANALS
----.PROJECT  AREA
..W  E I-RAI LROAD
NAY----BAIN  ROADS
& ------JAMED TOWNS
MAY 1968                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBSD 2316






IND ONES  IA
TJISEDANE IRRIGATION AREA                                                     J  A  V A
(40,00  HA) ,v
EK                         NAL                                   q- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  jk.rta
t \ 9 \ ATANGERANG ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... PROPOSED PRIMARY CANALS
To /Serang                                                                                 /                         X                                       _  ___ EXISTING SECONDARY CANALS
g  $O 56 gX         0   \'4  1   --    X                                                 X                 2                        , , s RAIL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
5                           <                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~TJ IKUPA                                   %                                            ALOD
)  -\   0        4                8                                O      1      2      3     4      5
KILOMETERS                                                            MILES
MAY 1968                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD - 2306






a,cbNGIG SBE5AR
So Kota B.3i .r
X< ,  ,,  0 ::f?:t;fI: .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......                                    .  ......          P H S     1 1 ( 5 0 0   A
-~~~~~~~ -I   .'                                                                               .
IN             E S IA
WAY SEPUTIH IRRIGATION AREA
PHASE I (10,000 HA)
.......   PROPOSED PRIMARY CANALS
EXISTING PRIMARY CANALS
PROPOSED SECONDARY CANALS
PROJECT AREA X"/-_/p
: ...':   EXISTING TRANSMIGRATION
.......... ...  SETTLEMENT AREAS X'/
ROADS                                                                                                    F  <8 VS8<                        
A-If-i --I--   RAILROADS
wS  >    /                 \                                                        °                ~         ~ ~                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  4  6
KILOMETERS
5              1             2              3              4
MILES
MY        WAY SEPUTIH WEIR R 
MAY 1968                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD -2305



