. 2_  -7v
RESTRICTED
Report No. p-629
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not-accept responsibility for its accuracy or-completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
A'/2 7TJC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
August 21, 1968



INTERNATIONAL DEVTELOPIM'NT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION OF TIE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPIaNT CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA FOR AM IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to Us$5.o million for an irrigation rehabilitation
project in Indonesia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In January 1968 it was agreed with the Indonesian Government to
send a mission to Indonesia to help formulate and to appraise a project
aimed at increasing Indonesiats rice production, thus helping her to ease
the prevailing domestic food shortage. The field work was carried out in
March of this year, resulting in the attached appraisal report recom-
mending an IDA Credit of US$5-O million; equivalent. The proposed Credit
would be the first lending operation of the Bank Group in Indonesia,
which became a member of the Association on August 20, 1968.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed Credit took place from August 5
to August 9, 1968. The Borrower was represented by:
Ir. Sujono Sosrodarsono - Director-General of W4ater
Resources Development
Ministry of Public Works and
Power
Dr. Saleh Afiff         - Chief, Agriculture Division
National Economic Development
Council (BAPPENAS)
Ers. S. Sundaru         - Director of International Affairs
Ministry of Finance
Mr. Rachadi Iskandar    - Second Secretary (Economic)
Embassy of Indonesia
4.        Subject to the availability of IDA funds, I expect to see our
lending activities in Indonesia grow rapidly in the years ahead, as reha-
bilitation and development projects of high priority can be prepared. To
assist Indonesia in project preparation work, I intend to bring before
the Directors shortly a proposed credit of US$2.0 million for the
financing of a program of technical studies to be used under the guidance
of the Bank's Resident Staff in Djakarta. Also, the Bank will be executing
agency for a major study of Indonesiats road system, financed by UNDP,
which it is expected will identify a project or projects for financing by
the Association, IFC will be promoting fertilizer plants depending on
the outcome of gas exploration work now underway.



- 2 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.        Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            Various currencies equivalent to
us$5.o million
Purpose:           The rehabilitation of three irrigation
systems in Java and the completion of a
new irrigation system in South Sumatra
with a total area of about 198,000 hectares,
and the preparation of a further project
for irrigation rehabilitation in other
areas,
Amortization:      In 50 years with a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments commencing
October 1, 1978 and ending April 1, 2018;
each installment up to and including payment
due on April 1, 1988 to be 1/2 of 1 per
cent of suich principal amount and each
installment thereafter to be 1-1/2 percent
of such principal amount.
Service Charge:    3/4 of 1 percent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Irrigation Rehabilitation Project" (TO-658a)
dated August 14, 1968.
7.        This project would be the first step in the preparation and
implementation of a well-planned program for the rehabilitation of
Indonesiats badly neglected irrigation systems, and their subsequent
operation and maintenance. The total area served by the project would
be about 198,000 hectares amounting to about ten percent of the total
area needing rehabilitation.
8.        I am presenting this Credit to you at this time even though
the necessary engineering study and the preparation of a detailed plan
for the execution of the project are still to be carried out. The
Government has agreed to engage consultants acceptable to the Association
for this purpose, and in the meanwhile, the Government can begin ordering



some of the needed equipment and machinery on the basis of the estimates
made by the appraisal mission, and can put it to work immediately on the
most urgent and obvious tasks.
9.        The total project cost wiould be US$8.8 million, of which about
US$4.0 million is expected to be in foreign exchange. In addition to
covering these expenditures, the Association would make a contribution of
about US$1.0 million to local currency expenditures, which would be of
particular importance to Indonesia because of her very difficult budgetary
and foreign exchange situation (see Part V - Economic Situation).
10.       The project would be completed within five years.  As can be
expected of rehabilitation works, it would produce very good returns.
The estimated internal rate of return to the economy on the investment
cost of the project as a whole would be about 50 percent; the rates of
return on individual systems in the project would range from 37 to 71 per
cent. Rice production, as a direct result of the execution of the
project, is expected to increase by almost 40,000 tons annuanlly or about
15 percent of the present level, reducing the need for rice imports by
about USM6.6 million per year or 6 percent of current imports.
11.       In addition, once the areas concerned are provided with adequate
irrigation and drainage systems, it would become economical to employ
modern inputs, such as fertilizers, pesticides, improved seeds, etc.,
which would increase yields even further. In effect, the Government has
undertalcen that these modern agricultural inputs would be made available
to users of all rehabilitated or completed irrigation systems included
in the project.
12.       Assurances have been obtained that the irrigation systems
included in the project would be properly operated and maintained in the
future, to prevent a recurrence of their present run-down condition.
Farmers benefitting from the project would be required to make a
substantial contribution toward the cost of operating and maintaining
the irrigation systems concerned. For the new irrigation system in
Sumatra which would be completed under the project, this contribution
would be expected to cover the full cost of operation and maintenance.
For the rehabilitated irrigation systems in Java, where lower farm
incomes and long-established customs and procedures have to be taken into
account, a contribution from the central and regional governments is
expected as well. The consultants referred to earlier would help the
Government in studying and making recommendations in this field.
13.       The consultants would also be required to begin as soon as
possible the preparation of a further project for the rehabilitation of
other high-priority irrigation areas. The proposed Credit makes special
provision for this and thus provides the basis for further investment in
this vital area in about two yearst time.



- h -
14.       The project would be carried out by the Directorate General of
Wiiater Resources Development of the Ministry of Public Works and Powero
All machinery and equipment, materials and supplies would be procured on
the basis of international competitive biddinvg.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association, and the 1 sccmmendation of the Cormittee, provided
for in Article V. Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed to the Ececutive Directors separately.
16.       The draft Development Credit Agreement follows generally the
usual pattern for this type of project.
PART V - ECONOMIC SITUATION
17.       The last report on the economic development of Indonesia
(No. AS-132a) was circulated on February 21, 1968. That report emphasized
the grave shortcomings of Indonesia's past economic performance particu-
larly from 1958 through 1965. The misuse of and the failure to develop
its relatively rich natural resources together with irresponsible fiscal,
monetary and exchange rate policies resulted in economic stagnation,
hyperinflation, and an extremely weak balance of payments position through-
out most of this period. At the same time, the Government-was borrowing
abroad large amounts on unfavorable terms for undertakings, most of which
were of very lowJ or negative productivity. This resulted in a very heavy
accumulation of debt service payments through the 1970's. The payments
due after 1970 will be increased further as a result of the rescheduling
now agreed or contemplated of the payments on pre-1967 debt originally due
during the four years, 1967-1970. Thus it appears that from 1971 to 1978
the average payment on present debt will be about $225 milion a year or
about 25 percent of Indonesia's likely foreign exchange income. To this
will be added service on new debt that must be contracted if Indonesia is
to achieve a reasonable rate of economic growth,
18.       The Su-harto Administration assumed responsibility for the
Government of Indonesia in mid-1966. Comprehensive changes in economic
policy were announced in July and October of that year, with a view to
freeing market forces in the economy and re-establishing its economic
links with the non-Communist world. lWith the advice and assistance of the
IIIF, fiscal and monetary measures were taken to contain the inflation
and improve the balance of payments position by more realistic exchange
rates. Subsidies were substantially eliminated for the numerous public



- 5 -
sector enterprises. New foreign and domestic investment laws were adopted
to help revive the private sector. These efforts have been accepted by
the members of the Inter-Governmental Group under the chairmanship of
The Netherlands as the bases both for the debt rescheduling referred to
above and for the start of a substantial program of external aid, which may
involve commitments of about $350 million in 1968.
19.       A Bank Economic ftission was in Indonesia during July to review
recent developments and to help in the preparation of the 1969 rehabilita-
tion and development program. In respect of general economic developments,
the major results in the first half of 1968 have on the whole been more
promising than in 1967 when little economic growth occurred, but the task
of rehabilitation still to be accomplished remains enormous. The emphasis
on economic policies providing greater freedom of market forces has
largely been continued. Prices rose sharply in December and January when
fear of a food shortage before the new harvest influenced the market. While
the cost-of-living index increased in the first half of 1968 by about
60 percent, the rate of increase has slowed down considerably in the last
few months. The large inflow of food aid and a successiful program of
domestic rice procurement and distribution together with reasonable fiscal
balance should prevent rapid price increases for the remainder of 1968.
20.       Slow commitment of aid in the first half of 1968 and some specu-
lation against the rupiah in the foreign exchange market contributed to a
decline of the dollar value of the rupiah by about 50 percent during that
period. Subsequent acceleration of aid commitments and disbursements,
combined with an estimated 8-10 percent increase of export earnings in
1968 as a whole, indicate the possibility of a marked slow-down in the
depreciation of the rupiah in the exchange market.
21.       Despite some progress in increasing domestic revenues by
administrative measures, a major portion of Indonesials total develop-
ment expenditures will have to be financed through foreign aid for the
immediately foreseeable future. For this reason and also because of the
country's very large accumulation of external debt, fresh assistance
should be on the softest possible terms. For the time being, Indonesia
should therefore be considered exclusively for IDA assistance.
PART VI - COlPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREF]ENT
22.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 6 -
PART VII - RECOM3DATION
23.       I recommend that the Ececutive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO. IDA
Approval of Development Credit to the Republic of
Indonesia in an amount equivalent to US$5,OOOJ,O00
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development
credit to the Republic of Indonesia in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five nmilion United States dollars
(us$5,ooo,ooo), to mature on or prior to April 1, 2018, to
bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1%0) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Development Credit Agreement (Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project) between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Association, which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, DoCe
August 21, 1968



