Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2880 
Operation Name 
ML - PRSC 1 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (60%);Irrigation and drainage 
(10%);General finance sector (10%);General transportation sector 
(10%);Agro-industry (10%) 
Project ID 
P083803 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) coordinates the 
implementation in close association with several line ministries. 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Mali 
Tel: 223 223 1654 
Fax: 223 222 8853 
mef@afribone.net.ml 
Date PID Prepared 
February 13, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
December 5, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
March 6, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Mali benefits from a stable and inclusive political environment, having successfully concluded 
four successive Presidential elections since 1990 and two sub-national elections since 1997. It 
has been a steady reformer over the past twenty years, albeit a plodding one at times. In response 
to market-oriented economic reforms and broad-based political reforms over the last 20 years 
that spurred private sector activity and enhanced civil society participation, Mali’s real GDP 
growth has averaged above 5 percent a year since 1994 when the currency was devalued. Gross 
national income per capita (atlas method) increased from US$240 in 1994 to US$380 in 2005, a 
4.0 percent average annual increase, translating into reductions in poverty and inequality.  
Despite the achievements over the past decade and half, Mali faces significant economic and 
social challenges. Over 60 percent of Mali’s population lived below the poverty line in 2001, and 
Mali’s social indicators remain among the lowest in the world—it is ranked 175 out of 177 
countries in the Human Development Index compiled by the United Nations Development 
Program. This partly reflects the fact that Mali is a vast landlocked country with a relatively 
narrow natural resource and human capital base. It is the largest country in West Africa (1.22 
million square kilometers) covering twice the size of Texas. With a population of about 12 
million, population density is very low (10 persons per square kilometer
1
)
resulting in high cost 
of public service delivery, difficulty in accessing nomadic communities and other segments of 
the rural population, and high transportation costs for agricultural inputs and other goods. 
1
The next largest West African country by land area, Nigeria, covers 0.9 million square km. With a population of 
129 million people, its population density is 142 persons per km
2
.
Page  2
Mali’s economy remains fragile in view of the economy’s vulnerability to rainfall conditions and 
commodity price fluctuations (primarily of cotton, oil, gold). The economy is dependent on 
agriculture and gold production, and exports are highly concentrated with gold and cotton 
together comprising over 90 percent of export earnings. As a land-locked country, Mali faces 
challenges due to weak development of infrastructure and transportation services, and to 
economic and political conditions in neighboring countries. The business environment—notably 
road transportation but also investment inflow prospects—continues to suffer from the protracted 
stalemate in the resolution of the crisis in Côte d’Ivoire. As with other low income countries, 
administrative capacity is also weak. A significant social, structural and macroeconomic agenda 
remains for Mali to consolidate the gains of the past to sustain broad-based growth, further 
entrench market-oriented forces in the country, and advance the poverty reduction program.  
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The operation is the first in a series of annual operations supporting implementation of Mali’s 
Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Framework (GPRSF). The GPRSF, submitted to the 
national assembly in December 2006 as an input to discussions of the draft 2007 budget, 
comprises programs grouped under the following three pillars: (i) infrastructure development and 
strengthening of the productive sectors (including food security, rural development, SME 
development, and sustainable natural resources management); (ii) strengthening the structural 
reform agenda (comprising public sector reforms, investment climate, financial sector, 
governance, capacity of the civil society); and (iii) strengthening of social sector services 
(including promotion of job creation, improved access to basic social services, HIV/AIDS). 
 
The objective of the operation is to strengthen public finance management (PFM), stimulate 
economic growth and improve access to basic human services, with a focus on activities under 
the following three components: 
·
the PFM component focuses on strengthening (a) the GPRSF’s links with the 
macroeconomic and budget frameworks, (b) mechanisms to monitor budget execution, 
and (c) procurement.  
·
the growth component emphasizes measures in the financial sector, private sector, 
transport and transit facilitation, electricity, cotton, and the 
Office du Niger
 irrigation 
zone.  
·
the basic social services component focuses on health and social development as well as 
rural water supply.  
Box 1 below lists the prior actions the Government agreed upon and implemented to enable 
presentation of the credit to the Executive Board: 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
In light of its perennial vulnerability to exogenous shocks, Mali’s macroeconomic management 
and poverty reduction achievements are laudable. Prudent macroeconomic policies yield 
moderate economic growth with low inflation, as well as sustainable fiscal deficit levels.  The 
Page  3
Box 1: Prior Actions for the Mali PRSC-1 
 
Component 1: Strengthening the Macroeconomic Framework and Public Finance Management
1A: Strengthening the Macroeconomic and budgetary frameworks, and PEM 
·
Implement the 2006 measures of the Government's Public Finance Management action plan; and make 
the CARFIP operational. 
 
1B: Procurement 
·
Adopt (by the Council of Ministers) the revised CPAR. 
 
Component 2: Support to Growth
2A: Financial sector 
·
The authorities will: (i) invite the commercial banks to implement the consultant report’s 
recommendations to strengthen loan processing procedures; (ii) facilitate the reco
very of bad debts; 
and (iii) meet with the banks to agree on a strategy to clean up the bad loan portfolios. 
 
2B: Private sector 
·
Adoption by the National Assembly of a law confirming that procedures pertaining to the attributing 
the unique firm ID number s
upercede previous procedures applied by Statistics, Tax and Treasury, 
Social security and Employment departments. 
 
2C: Transport and transit facilitation 
·
Inscribe a separate line item for the road user fee in the price structure for petroleum 
product 
imports.  
 
2E: Cotton sector 
·
Continue implementation of the cotton producer price setting mechanism; 
·
Validation by the stakeholders (Gov’t, DAGRIS, producers) of the definition of the zones (3 or 4) to be 
privatized; and adoption by the Council of ministers of 
the final operational plan for the privatization 
of CMDT. 
·
Launch the bidding process for the selection of the privatization advisor.  
 
2F: 
Office du Niger
 reforms 
·
Undertake a complementary study to strengthen the financing aspects of the private irrigation
financing mechanism. 
 
Component 3: Access to basic social services
3A: Health and Social development 
·
Provide written confirmation of the modalities for transfer of the additional resources required for the 
2007 program of the health and social development ministries. 
2007 budget reflects continued fiscal prudence. For 2007, the authorities currently aim for the 
same fiscal balance share of GDP (excluding grants), as in 2006. Revenues are expected to 
increase due to higher gold earnings; and the authorities reached an agreement with the civil 
service unions on a fiscally prudent level of inflation adjustment of salaries (2.6 percent in 
January 2007). The fiscal deficit in 2007 is expected to be financed from committed external 
sources, implying zero net domestic financing and hence no inflation impact. Consistent with 
Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, the authorities made progress with key donors on 
strengthening aid predictability and harmonization, by signing a framework agreement in March 
2006 on financing and evaluation, and by improving the public finance information systems. To 
support monitoring of the PFM reforms, a Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability 
Page  4
Study (PEFA) was undertaken in November 2006, to establish baseline values of the monitoring 
indicators. 
 
Based on its implementation record, the borrower’s commitment to and ownership of reforms are 
adequate.  Mali’s ownership of its reforms is reflected in the track record under the Third and 
Fourth Structural Adjustment Credits, the Economic Policy and Public Finance Management 
Credit (EPPFMC), and the IMF-supported Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility. Under the 
EPPFMC (January 2006 Board approval), achievements include: adoption of an overall 
framework to synchronize the medium term budget framework and sector medium term 
expenditure frameworks with the processing timelines for the macroeconomic framework, 
budget preparation cycle, and preparation of the 2007-2011 poverty reduction strategy 
framework (PRSF); preparation of the 2007-2011 PRSF; continued implementation of the cotton 
producer price setting mechanism agreed in January 2005 with farmer organizations and the 
national cotton ginning company; strengthened management and commenced restructuring of the 
Malian Housing Bank, to stave of a looming financial crisis;
 e
stablishment of the institutional 
framework for implementing the Government’s Action Plan for Modernizing and Improving 
Public Finance Management (PAGAMPFM); definition of the mechanisms for monitoring and 
evaluation of the PAGAMPFM; and allocation of resources in the draft 2006 budget for the 2006 
period of the PAGAMPFM.
 
The authorities also re-engaged on the broader cotton sector reforms program with agreement on 
the privatization framework for the national cotton company. They laid the foundation for 
implementing actions identified in the financial, irrigation and transport sectors under the 
proposed credit, and implemented key actions under those sector components. There is a need to 
build on these past achievements by deepening progress on the social, structural and institutional 
reform agenda as outline in the PRSF and supported by Mali’s bilateral and multilateral donors.   
4. Financing 
 
The PRSC-1 amount is SDR 30 million (US$45 million equivalent), disbursed in a single tranche 
upon effectiveness of the credit.  
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance is the main interlocutor of this operation, and is 
responsible for overall coordination of supervision and monitoring of program implementation, 
led by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and drawing on 
MEF thematic technical advisors who liaise with the designated focal points in the 
departments/agencies involved in the PRSC program. The participating ministries, departments 
and agencies will furnish relevant information and documentation on implementation and 
monitoring of their respective programs to MEF, which will oversee progress in achieving 
program objectives.  
The Bank will monitor implementation of the PRSC program in the course of preparing the 
PSRC-2 and supervising corresponding sector operations. Focus of the various missions would 
be not only on completion of actions in the policy matrix but also on monitoring indicators (to 
the extent available) and on the goals of the program. 
Page  5
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits 
 
The proposed operation would contribute to financing the Government’s 2007 budget aimed at 
pursuing the objectives of the GPRSF. The operation would provide the incentive to implement 
key economic, social and institutional reform to strengthen overall economy performance, 
growth and poverty alleviation. Implementation of the PRSC-1 program would also contribute to 
strengthening oversight of public finances and the procurement system, thereby enhancing 
efficiency and effectiveness of public sector spending.  
The operation would contribute to enhancing shared-private-sector-led growth, by lowering 
administrative and financial costs of doing business, easing restrictions and costs of starting a 
business, and easing export-related costs on handicraft products. In agriculture, the operation 
would contribute to laying the foundations for enhanced performance and growth in the medium 
term of the cotton sector and the 
Office du Niger
 irrigation zone. As regards the basic social 
services (health and rural water supply), the operation will strengthen the links between the 
sector strategy and the budget, and lay the foundations for improved quality of service delivery. 
 
Over the medium term, the operation would contribute to reducing transport and transit costs, by 
ensuring regular road maintenance and lowering the cost burden (in money and time) of customs 
administration on the private sector. The Credit would lower the costs of financial services (and 
therefore enhance access to credit) through cleaning up non-performing loans from bank balance 
sheets. It would also improve access to longer term resources vitally needed to stimulate private-
sector-led growth, through strengthening the prospects of institutions with long term assets 
whether financial (pension funds, housing bank, insurance companies) or physical (leasing 
companies). 
 
Risks 
 
The operation faces moderate external, political and budget risks. 
External risk
 stems mainly 
from Mali’s vulnerability to climatic/natural shocks (drought, avian flu), exchange rate and 
commodity price fluctuations (cotton, oil) and regional developments (persistent Côte d’Ivoire 
crisis). Mitigating these risks over the horizon of the proposed operation remains a challenge: it 
depends on the economy’s capacity to adjust in the wake of the shocks, and the Government’s 
continued ability to manage the impact of the shocks. The operation would help strengthen both 
these capacities, through policy measures that contribute to economic growth and diversification, 
and further strengthen public finance management within a sound macroeconomic framework. 
Additionally, the overall country dialogue would allow for some budget flexibility to address 
crisis-related expenses within the context of a prudently managed budget that supported priority 
growth and poverty reduction programs. The introduction of predictable and timely support 
through the PRSC series, and continued progress with donor coordination, will also be important 
elements for mitigating the external risks. 
Political risk,
 linked to the upcoming presidential elections in April 2007, is that the pace of 
program implementation could slow or that the Government’s current commitment to some 
reforms (such as bank restructuring, cotton) could wane as the election approaches. This risk, 
Page  6
which is low to moderate, is mitigated by the front loading of the policy measures, to be 
completed before submission of the Credit to the Board. The country team is monitoring this risk 
on a continual basis in order to detect problem areas early on so as to be able to adjust the Bank’s 
response as needed.  
Budget risk
 stems from ongoing financial crises in the cotton and electricity parastatal companies 
(CMDT, EDM) which could potentially require government transfers to cover the large projected 
deficits in those sectors. Although this risk is moderate to high, the 2007 budget includes no 
provision for possible transfers to these two companies: for cotton, the Government indicates that 
the required recapitalization of CMDT (equivalent to 1.3 percent of GDP) will be covered 
through debt conversion rather than cash transfer (and thus with no treasury impact); while for 
electricity the Government has not yet formally acknowledged the company’s need for a cash 
infusion during 2007 (amounting to about 0.2 percent of GDP at least, and 0.8 percent of 
government expenditures) in order to remain viable. It is thus possible that actual implementation 
of the government budget during 2007 could be significantly different from the approved budget. 
This risk is being mitigated through the strengthened financial management in both companies 
and close monitoring of their respective financial and cash positions. Additionally, a financial 
evaluation of the CMDT will be undertaken in the first half of 2007 to better understand the 
nature of the losses and devise corrective measures. 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
The
 
poverty and social impacts of the PRSC-1
 
are expected to be favorable overall. Many of the 
measures have an indirect poverty and social impact through creating the conditions for 
improved governance and provision of public services (i.e., macroeconomic and public finance 
management), improved quality of infrastructure services (i.e., transport road maintenance, 
irrigation reforms), improved health of and access to financial sector services (i.e., financial 
sector reforms), and lower cost of goods and services (i.e., through improved transport road 
maintenance and transit facilitation). The elimination of the export-related “expertise tax” on 
handicrafts would benefit the poor since handicrafts are a major source of income for large 
numbers of the poor. Handicraft activities are also the main source of diversification outside 
agriculture in the rural areas, thereby translating into economic opportunities for the poorest 
Malians. As regards the cotton sector, the findings of the poverty and social impact analysis 
(PSIA) of the cotton producer price reform, suggest a much less adverse impact on farmers of the 
drop in producer prices than initially feared. 
Environment Aspects 
The implementation of the PRSC-1 program is not expected to have any significant 
environmental impact, given the nature of the policy actions and the short-term horizon of the 
operation. Implementation of the sector reforms over the three-year PRSC series (cotton, 
irrigation) could potentially have some minimal environmental impact. Implementation of the 
longer-term cotton sector reforms may have environmental implications due to the potential 
increase in cotton production and attendant increase in fertilizer/pesticide use. An assessment of 
the likely environmental impact shows, however, that the magnitude of environmental risks 
Page  7
strictly associated with the cotton sector is very limited, as no major expansion of cotton 
cultivated areas is expected. Environmental issues associated with the cotton privatization 
program will be incorporated in the bidding/negotiations process for each company privatized. 
Potential implications in the transport sector are addressed through a requirement that the teams 
undertaking road maintenance activities include an environmental specialist. For any new 
irrigation activities an environmental assessment is undertaken and a mitigation plan prepared. 
The PRSC-1 program, if successful, would likely contribute to expansion of private sector 
activity, inclusive of production operations in polluting sectors. These impacts will be addressed 
to some extent under future Bank projects, but would best be tackled in a perennial manner 
through the country’s environmental management agency. Yet Mali’s capacity to guide industrial 
development in sustainable manner (through, for example, the review of proposals, issuance of 
permits, and enforcement of standards) is currently assessed to be weak. Consideration for 
providing Bank support to strengthen Mali’s environment management capacity should be 
discussed in the context of the upcoming CAS exercise.  
8. Contact point 
Contact: Christina A. Wood 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5829 
Fax: (202) 473-8136 
Email: Cwood@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
