Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2601 
Operation Name 
Mali: First Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-1) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (60%); General finance sector 
(10%); General transportation sector (10%); Agro-industry (10%); 
Irrigation and drainage (10%). 
Project ID 
P083803 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Mali 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) coordinates the 
implementation in close association with several line ministries. 
Date PID Prepared 
November 8, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 7, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 8, 2007 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Mali has established a strong economic management record over the past decade and a half, in the 
context of a stable democratic political environment and founded on a market-oriented policy 
framework. Mali has also been implementing an explicit poverty reduction strategy since 1998, and is in 
the process of finalizing its third such strategy. Notwithstanding recent achievements in growth (which 
have averaged 5.7 percent a year since 1994), Mali’s economic prospects remains vulnerable to various 
exogenous shocks (climatic, commodity prices, regional conflicts) as well as to the effects of weak 
managerial capacity in the private and public sectors, which have resulted in only modest poverty 
reduction so far. Additionally, the high cost of doing business in Mali (reflected in elevated costs of 
transportation, transit, electricity, and compliance with regulations) negatively impacts domestic and 
foreign direct investment prospects.  
 
Given Mali’s significant needs for accelerating growth and reducing poverty, Mali will require sustained 
technical and financial support of the donor community, inclusive of the Bank, in a coordinated policy 
framework. The proposed operation is an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for 
Mali.  
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed PRSC-1 would support the Government in the pursuit of policy objectives laid out its 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The proposed operation aims to: (i) ensure that the poverty reduction 
strategy is implemented consistent with an appropriate macroeconomic and budgetary framework; (ii) 
strengthen public expenditure management and the procurement system; and (iii) strengthen the 
foundations for accelerated growth.
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The PRSC-1 supports three components of policy measures consistent with Mali’s poverty reduction 
strategy and as a complement to ongoing or planned World Bank investment operations. The 
first 
component
 of the credit focuses on strengthening the macroeconomic and budget frameworks, including 
Page  2
their links to the growth and poverty reduction strategy and minimizing the budgetary risks of 
productive sectors (notably cotton). The 
second component
 comprises growth-enhancing measures in the 
financial sector, private sector, Office du Niger irrigation zone, and in transport and transit facilitation. 
The 
third component
 focuses on public finance management reforms, notably strengthening 
procurement as well as management, accountability and transparency of budget execution.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The implementation of the PRGC I program is not expected to have any significant environmental 
impact, given the policy focus and the short-term horizon of this operation. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
US$35 mn. 
 Total 
US$35 
mn. 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Christina A. Wood 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5829 
Fax: 202-473-8136 
Email: cwood@worldbank.org 
 
