DoM
The Wc
Fort omc
Repor No. 9943
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1480-PAK)
OCTOBER 3, 1991
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
EMENA Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
RS per US$1.00       USS per RS 1.00
FY88            17.56                0.057
FY89            19.16                0.052
FY90            21.45                 0.047
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEPM       -  National Academy of Education Planning and Review Committee
APCOM      -  Agricultural Prices Commission
EAC           Experts Advisory Cell
ESL        -  Energy Sector Loan
FATA/PATA -  Feder.al/Provincial Administered Tribal Areas
GOP        -  Government of Pakistan
HFF        -  Heavy forge and Foundry
HMC        -  Heavy Mechanical Complex
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
NFWP       -  Northeast Frontier Province
OGDC          Oil and Gas Development Corporation
PC        -  Planning Commission
RMP        -  Resident Mission in Pakistan
SAL       -  Structural Adjustment Loan
TA         -  Technical Assistance
TAERC      -  Technical Assistance Evaluation Review Committee
TAPC       -  Technical Assistance Project Cell
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID      -  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Ditrctor-General
Operations Evaluation
October 3, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Second
Technical Assistance Proiect (Credit 1480-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan - Second Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1480-PAK)" prepared by the EMENA Regional Office. No audit of this project has
been made b- the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
lhbb dwcument hs a rsrcted dstributIon and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of their etcil dudtk
lb contents may not otbeuwise be disdosed without World Dank autborIzdon.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CO.iPbETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECONL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1480-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .                                                            iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .1
1.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2. Background .... . . . . . . . ..                                              1
3.  Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives ..I .                                                  1
Project Description .......                                               2
4.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .                     3
5.  Project Implementation ...  .         .  .  .  .    . .                      3
6.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     4
7.  Bank Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     5
8.  Lessons Learned  ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..   6
9.  Borrower Performance ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..     7
10.  Project Relationship ...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..     8
11.  Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     8
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . .                     9
1. Introduction .... . . . . . . . ..                                            9
2.  Project Implementation ...  .         .  .  .  .    . .                      9
3.  Conclusion ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   10
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    11
1.  Related Bank Loans and Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    11
2. Proiect Timetable .. .11
3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . . . . .                   12
4.  Missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  13
5.  Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    13
6.  Studies  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   14
7.  Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1480-PAK)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Tech-
nical Assistance Project in Pakistan, for which Credit 1480-PAK in the
amount of SDR 6.6 million (US$ 7.0 million) was approved on May 2, 1984.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1988, after a one year extension. The
final disbursement under the Credit was made in the second quarter of FY90,
with the remaining balance of SDR 781,000 subsequently cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Resident Mission in Pakistan (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
The Borrower has reviewed Parts I and III.
The information in the PCR is ba'-- on the Credit Agreement;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
internal Bank memoranda; and information and documentation provided by
officials of the Planning Commission, Government of Pakistan.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1480-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The Second Technical Assistance Project (TA-II) in an amount of SDR
6.6 million (US$ 7.0 million) was approved in 1984 as a vehicle for pro-
viding continued support to the Government of Pakistan in the development of
policy reform programs in agriculture, industry, energy and other key
sectors of the economy. In addition, the Credit was to provide assistance
for strengthening the project evaluation and monitoring system at the
Planning Commission, through a comprehensive computerizaticn program.
Implementation Experience
2.       TA-II did not experience major problems in implementation.  The
project became effective on August 21, 1984, and background and preparatory
work on the key studies to be financed out of the Credit was undertaken
according to schedule. However, no study could be contracted out in the
first year of the Credit, since the Closing Date of the ongoing Technical
Assistance Project (TA-I, Credit 1256-PAK) had been extended, and GOP and
the Bank agreed to utilize the balance remaining in TA-I before committing
funds under TA-II (PCR, Part I, para. 5.02).
3.       A few problems in timely implementation of TA-II occurred when the
volume of work for on-going and new studies financed under the Credit
increased, while the key staff position at the TA Project Cell (TAPC) in the
Planning Commission became vacant due to the transfer of the Deputy Secre-
tary (PCR, Part I, para. 5.03). Award of studies was delayed because
adequate staff were not in place at TAPC to complete lengthy procedural
requirements with respect to the preparation of TORs, invitation and evalua-
tion of proposals and award of contracts. In some instances, technical
expertise was not available at the Resident Mission in Pakistan and delays
were experienced in the review of technical proposals at Headquarters. (PCR,
Part I, para. 5.03). Project implementation was also delayed owing to
unexpected problems in completing a number of studies on their original
schedule (PCR, Part I, para. 5.04).
Reselts
4.       The project was quite successful in meeting its objectives of
provicing support to GOP's adjustment and policy reform process. A few of
the key studies provided useful input into the GOP industrial and trade
policy reform process and Bank-GOP discussions in this area. There was also
considerable demand for a number of the studies from research organizations,
students and private sector organizations. (PCR, Part I, para. 6.02.)



- iv -
5.       However, in four cases the studies or sub-projects were unable to
meet their stated objectives. The computer hardware which was acquired
under the Project for strengthening the Planning Commission could not be
utilized because of incompatibility between the hardware and software and
support services available in the country. In other cases, such as in the
Panjpir Reservoir study, only Phase-I could be completed; the TA-I Evalua-
tion study was not of good quality; and an individual consultant on an
income distribution study did not complete his assignment. (PCR, Part I,
para. 6.03.)
Finding,s and Lessons Learned
6.       The Government's existing procedures for consultant selection under
TA projects are fairly complex. This led to considerable delays in the
award of studies, and hence affected the timely implementation of the
project. To allow the TA projects to contribute effectively towards the GOP
s.ructural and policy reform process, the procedures should be simplified,
and duplication of effort between the TAPC staff and the recently estab-
lished T-chnical Assistance Evaluation Review Committee (TAERC) by the
Planning Commission should be minimized (PCR, Part I, para 8.03). The
Project Director of the TAPC should have greater authority vested '-I him to
decide on most matters relating to the award of studies and disbursemients
(PCR. Part I, para. 8.04). Technical proposals snould be submitted to the
Technical Sections of the Planning Commission, while the TAERC should be
convened only once for the final selection and award of the study (PCR,
Part I, para. 8.04). For each sub-project, one organization should take on
the prime technical responsibility for the final product (PCR, Part I,
para. 8.05).
7.       One problem which affected the TA Project was the inadequate
staffing at the TAPC. Efforts should be made to ensure adequate staffing at
the TAPC. If a person is to be transferred, his replacement should be
appointed well in time to give the newcomer sufficient time to learn about
the project from the out-going staff member. (PCR, Part I, para. 9.03).
8.       The Bank's monitoring and progress reporting requirements should be
simplified and made less time consuming. Effective control of the TA
project should rest with the Planning Commission. One workable solution
could be for Bank approval of all documents to be required only for studies
exceeding a specified financial limit (PCR, Part I, para. 8.01). However,
if the Bank is to be involved with the functioning of the TA Credit as at
present, additional staff weeks should be devoted for supervision both at
the RMP and in Washington (PCR, Part I, para. 8.02).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1480-PAK)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project identity
Project Name             Second Technical Assistance Project
Loan No.                 Credit 1480-PAK
RVP Unit                 Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country                  Pakistan
Sector                   Technical Assistance
2. Background
2.01      In the  last  ten years,  the  Bank's  support  for  Government  of
Pakistan's structural adjustment programs has been complemented by Technical
Assistance Credits I, II and III totalling SDR 18.8 million (US$21.0 million).
In 1982 the Government of Pakistan's macroeconomic policy reform and adjustment
process under the IMF Exterded Fund Facility (EFF) was supported by the first
Structural Adjustment Loan -- SAL (Loan 2166-PAK Credit 1255-PAK) which was to
assist in rationalization of the industrial structure, formulation of policy
reforms to accelerate the development of Pakistan's oil and gas potential,
implementation of the newly developed National Agricultural Policy, and
rebuilding an effective planning system. SAL I was accompanied by the First
Technical Assistance Credit (TA-I) of SDR 6.3 million (US$7.0 million) to
assist the Government in the development of policy statements and reform
programs to be implemented as part of the structural adjustment process.
2.02      After the successful completion of the SAL I, with support under
TA-I, GOP and the Bank agreed to continue the adjustment process in key sectors
of the economy -- especially in agriculture, industry and energy -- and to
develop a policy framework for Bank project lending and sector loans in each
of these sectors.
3. Proiect Obiectives and Description
Project Obiectives
3.01      In 1984, the Second Technical Assistance Credit (TA-II) for SDR 6.6
million (US$7.0 million) was approved to provide continued support to the
Government of Pakistan in th't development of policy reform programs in
agriculture, industry, energy, and other key sectors, and to strengthen the
Planning Commission through establishment of a comprehensive computer network.
In this regard TA-II represented a continuation of the support that had been
provided under TA-I for GOP's structural and policy reform program.



-2-
Proiect Description
3.02      TA-1I was designed to finance studies and consultancy services in
agriculture, industry, energy, planning and other key sectors as described
below:
(a)   In agriculture  and water,  the project was  to provide
support to the Agricultural Prices Commission (APCOM) to
prepare proposals for agricultural pricing policies in
support of the agricultural sector adjustment loan.
Assistance was also to be provided for the preparation of
projects in the irrigation sector using the Bank developed
irrigation/drainage investment model.
(b)   In industry, the project was to provide continued support
to the Experts Advisory Cell (EAC), Ministry of Production,
for the establishment of a Corporate Planning System to
complement the signalling system for Public Manufacturing
Enterprises which had been previously developed under TA-I.
A Steel Sector Study to recommend policy and production
adjustments in the operations of the Karachi Steel Mill and
downstream industries was to be carried out. In addition,
support was to be provided for a Working Group on indus-
trial incentives under the Ministry of Finance, to fortmu-
late an industrial incentive system, and an industrial
policy statement to accompany an expanded irdustrial
lending program by the Bank.
(c)   In the energy sector, TA-II was to complement the large
USAID program in the sector, with emphasis on developing
proposals for strengthening public sector coal mining
institutions, and continuing to finance energy sector
studies started under TA-I, including gas peak shaving, and
fuel use and efficiency in the power sector.
(d)   In order to strengthen National Planning, the project was
to provide assistance for establishment of a management
information system through an extended computerization
program - including hardware, software ana training - which
would allow for improved monitoring of the status of
development projects by the Projects Wing of Planning
Commission (PC).
(e)   In the Social Sectors,  the project was to finance special-
ized studies, particularly on health sector management and
organization at district level, and a study of health
education  curriculum  deve'lopment.    In  education,  the
project was to support the rnewly created National Academy
of Education Planning and Management (AEPM) in planning,
research and training.



- 3-
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01      Although the studies to be undertaken in agriculture, industry and
energy had been broadly defined at the time of appraisal, TA-Il was designed
to be a flexible instrument, so that project components  could be easily
modified  as  GOP'-  structural  adjustment  program  evolved.    The  studies
identified at the -aitiation of the TA-II were therefore indicative.  A number
of the studies were expected to provide assistance in preparing policy reforms
in key sectors whicli  would be supported by Bank sector loans.   Sufficient
flexibility was in-corporated in project design to modify the study proposals
ir accordance with changing priorities.
4.02      Implementation of the technical assistance program was the responsi-
bility of the Technical Assistance Proj,'ct Cell (TAPC) established in the
Planning and Development Division of the Planning Commission. It's task was
to program, administer, and supervise implementation of the project withir the
framework of the procedures agreed during negotiations.
5. Project Implementation
5.01      Implementation Schedule.  TA-II did not experience major problems in
implementation. Project negotiations and start-up were completed as planred
and the Credit was declared effective on August 21, 1984 (Table 2). Prepara-
tory work on some of the key studies to be financed under TA-II was undertaken
according to schedule. By May, 1985, proposals for about 20 studies had beer,
iden: ified as possible subprojects, a number of which had originated as ideas
during the last year of TA-I.
5.02      However, no study was contrarcted out and project implementation was
slow in the first year.   This was due in part to the fact that the GOP and the
Bank had agreed to utilize remaining TA-I funds to the maximum extent possible
before committing TA-II funds.   As a consequence some of the identified
subprojects were financed out of the funds left in TA-I, since it had aLot yet
been closed, and since its objectives were identical to those of TA-I.  The
award of studies and pace of disbursements under the new credit also suffered
due to some teething problems encountered in operating the newly established
Special Account, and inadequate staffing at the TAPC.  These problems were
resolved over the next year.
5.03      The timely implementation of TA-II further suffered during the
intervening years when the volume of work f-om both large ongoing and new
studies increased sharply and the staffing position of the TAPC deteriorated
due to the promotion and transfer of the Deputy Secretary. Award of studies
was delayed in some instances because adequate staff were not available for
timely action to prepare TORS, issue invitations to bid and complete the
technical evaluation of proposals. In some cases, technical expertise was not
available at RMP and delays were experienced in the review of technical
proposals or draft studies by staff at the Bank's Headquarters.
5.04      Project implementation was also partly delayed due to unanticipated
time overruns in the implementation of some studies. The Industrial Effici-
ency, the Heavy Forge and Foundry and the Panjpir Reservoir studies were
delayed due to double taxation issues on the consultant's contract. Various
studies, such as for the Restructuring of Public Corporations in the Mining



-4-
Sector and the Restructuring of the Heavy Mech.'iical Complex (HMC), were
delayed owing to protracted discussions on the substance of the study between
various government organizations.
5.05      The original Closing Date for TA-IT was December 31, 1987, but this
was extended to December 31, 1988.
5.06      Proiect Costs.  The cost of the Second Technical Assistance Project
was SDR 6.6 million (or US$7.0 million). Due to the devaluation of the US$
against the SDR, actual funds available to the project were around US$8.0
million. However, due to delays in award of proposed studies. especially
towards the end of the iroject, the full amount could not be utilized.  The
final cost of the project was US$7.3 million and the balance of about SDR
781,000 was cancelled.
5.07      Disbursements.  Actual disbursements were slower than commitments in
the initial year because TA-I had not closed and a few of studies were financed
out of the balance under TA-I, and as a result of the delay in putting the
Special Account into operation. However, disbursements picked up considerably
when these issues were resolved and the staffing position of TAPC improved.
Because of time overruns, disbursements continued into FY89 and FY90, and the
project closed on September 30, 1989 instead of June 30, 1988. Cumulative
disbursements are given in Part III, Table 3.
5.08      The disbursements  for the subprojects were tied closely to two
factors. Disbursement performance was expeditious in cases where the concept
and study proposal had been discussed in advance between the Bank and the
Planning Commission. In cases where the policy-based study was to feed into the
Bank's sector work, a keen interest by the Bank ensured timely implementation
and disbursements for the subproject.   Secondly, timely disbursements were
linked to the staffing position at the TAPC. Disbursements were much faster
when full time staff was assigned to the TA project.
6. Prolect Results
6.01      Prolect Obiectives.  The Second Technical Assistance Credit was quite
successful in achieving its overall objectives of providing support for the
Government's adjustment and policy reform process.   Fifteen studies were
financed under TA-II, of which 11 met their objectives and were of good
quality, while 4 ran into difficulties.
6.02      Impact of Studies.  Key studies under TA-II, such as the Industrial
Efficiency and Development Strategy studv, provided useful input into GOP's
industrial and trade policy reform process, and the study has contributed
considerably to the GOP-Bank discussions in this area. Other stucies in the
industry sector, such as Steel Sector study, Restructuring studies for the
Heavy Mechanical Complex and the Heavy Fotge and Foundry, and the Corporate
Planning study successfully met their objectives. Under the Corporate Planning
study a framework was established within which corporate plans for public
sector manufacturing enterprises were developed, and are being further refined
and implemented by these enterprises under the supervision of EAC. A number
of these studies have had tremendous demand from research organizations,
students and private sector organizations.



- 5 -
6.03      However, 4 subprojects could not achieve their objectives. In the
procurement of a mainframe computer for PC, an oversight at the time of
tendering resulted in the procurement of a computer system which could not be
supported by appropriate software and support services in the country, and one
which was not compatible with some of the software programs which had already
been developed by a local firm for the Planning Commission. The computer was
donated  to  the Ministry  of Interior but  later  recalled.    The  Plannirg
Commission has not used the computer for the last 6 years.  After extensive
negotiations, the Bank agreed to finance the Planning Commission's computeriza-
tion program under  TA-III.   The  report  on the Evaluation of Technical
Assistance I (financed under TA-II) was not of top quality.  COP and tle Bark
requested the consultants to revise the report, which in its final form
presented some guidelines to improve the efficiency of the technical assistence
credits.   The survey data for the Income Distribution study, which was
contracted out in two parts, was successfully completed, and was used by the
Bank in its sector work on poverty issues. However, part of the Consultant's
report was delayed and the GOP imposed a 10% per.alty on his payments.   In
protest, the final report has been withheld by the consultant. In the case of
the Panjpir Gas Reservoir study only Phase I could be completed for which
payment was made.   Phase II could not be completed owing to tax issues
affecting the consultants which could not be resolved.
7. Bank Performance
7.01      Overall, Bank staff contributed substantially towards the smooth
working  of  the project.    The  Bank's  decision to   transfer  supervision
responsibility for the project to the Resident Mission in Pakistan (lUP) proved
helpful in reducing time delays on selected subprojects. However, in a large
number of cases RMP's supervision was restricted mostly to that of only an
intermediary, and the issues had to be referred to the Bank's Headquarters for
review, comment and/or approval.
7.02      The Bank was consulted on all matters  including the choice of
studies, award of contracts, approval of payments and other matters relating
to the functioning of the TA credit. For each of the subprojects the Planning
Commission was required to submit TORs, evaluation reports, a draft contract,
and other related documents to the Bank for review and approval, which
contributed to an enormous workload for the TAPC and RMP staff. As it had been
agreed that procurement for all subprojects would be subject to review by the
Bank, this workload could have been reduced somewhat if the Bank's detailed
review of procurement had been restricted to the large studi-s/subprojects,
while for the remaining subprojects TAPC could have been allowed greater
flexibility in selecting the consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
7.03      Bank performance could have been better if adequate staff weeks had
been devoted to the Technical Assistance Project both at RMP and Headquarters.
TA-II commenced before TA-I was finalized, and before TA-II was closed, TA-III
had become fully operational. With two TA Credits operating simultaneously,
this had the effect of reducing budgeted staff weeks per TA to half that
envisaged in the annual work plan. Secondly, for a considerable time there was
no staff member responsible for coordination of the correspondence on the TA
project in Washington.   Comments on technical proposals or final studies
forwarded by RMP (which did not, in selected cases, have the required technical



expertise) therefore took considerable time before they were returned to the
RMP.
,.04      In cases where the subprojects were expected to provide support for
policy reforms that were agreed under Bank sector loans, there was a visible
interest and keener supervision of the study by the Bank. This contributed to
a better and timely product. At other times, quality and timely completion of
the study were compromised because no one organization took prime respon-
sibility for the subproject.
8. Lessons Learned
8.01      The Bank's monitoring and progress report requirements should be
simplified and made less time consuming. Effective control of the TA Credit
should primarily rest with the Planning Commission. A workable solution could
be that the Bank be consulted only on studies exceeding a specified financial
limit, or in case of a substantive or logistical problem. For other studies,
an acceptable model contract and Letter of Invitation should be used, which
need not be submitted to the Bank for each study.
8.02      However, if the Bank is to be involved with the functioning of the
TA as at present, additional staff weeks should be devoted for supervision of
the TA Credit both at the RMP and in Washington. Similarly, GOP's commitment
to the objectives of the TA Project should be reinforced by assigning adequate
staff to TAPC, so as to allow the Cell to satisfactorily discharge its
monitoring and supervisory functions.
8.03      Existing procedures for consultant section under the TA Project are
fairly complex, and involve a number of reviews of the TORs, a request for and
evaluation of proposals, and the subsequent selection process by the Bank,
TAPC, and the specially constituted Technical Assistance Evaluation and Review
Committee.   In order to avoid duplication of effort,  and to enable the
subprojects to contribute to the development of the Government's structural
reform program in a more effective and timely manner, a simplified set of
procedures need to be developed, particularly to ensure that routine adminis-
trative matters do not need the review and approval of a relatively large
number of entities.
8.04      The Project Director of the TAPC should have greater authority vested
in him to decide on most matters relating to the award of studies, disburse-
ments  and  other administrative matters.    Technical proposals  should be
submitted to technical sections of the Planning Commission and the government
organization  responsible  for  the  study  for  evaluation.    The  Technical
Assistance Evaluation and Review Committee (TAERC), established in i988,
should be convened only once for the final selection and award of each study.
Monitoring of the subprojects should be undertaken by the staff of the TAPC on
a routine basis.
8.05      For each subproject, one organization should be invited to take the
prime technical responsibility for the product. The organization should assist
Planning Commission in developing the TORS, evaluating the technical proposals,
supervising the consultants, and carrying out a   final evaluation of the
product.   This would contribute towards reducing the time and paperwork
involved in the selection and supervision of consultants. If the study is in



- 7 -
support of Bank sector work, adequate staff weeks for the supervision of the
subproject should be allocated within the work plan of the RMP. This should
be in addition to the staff weeks required for routine supervision of the TA
Project.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01      Overall, the Planning Commission's performance was adequate during
implementation of TA-II. However, the Planning Commission took only limited
steps to disseminate information on the availability of technical assistance
funds for policy-based studies to other public sector organizations or to the
Provincial Governments.   In a number of cases, the identification of sub-
projects was driven by the proposed Bank sector loans or the Planning
Commission's own needs.  Additional studies and subprojects could have been
financed out of the remaining balance had other Government institutions been
given an adequate opportunity to participate in TA-II. A major lesson to be
learnt from the TA-Il experience is that commitment by the Government to the
concept and objectives of the project is essential for effective functioning
of the project.
9.02      The Government's legal procedures and penalty clauses did not prove
to be adequate in the case of the Income Distribution study where payments to
the Consultant were made against a Bank Guarantee which could not be utilized
when the consultant refused to submit his final report.
9.03      Inadequate Staffing.  One problem was the lack of adequate staffing
of the TAPC which affected the timeliness of both the evaluation and award as
well as disbursements of subprojects. Despite requests by the Bank to appoint
separate staff for handling the technical evaluations and the administrative
work, the TAPC continued with one Deputy Secretary and one Section Officer for
the greater part of the project.   Part of the problem stemmed from the
ineligibility of TAPC staff for the Secretariat Allowance amounting to 20 % of
the basic pay paid to regular Secretariat staff.  This problem has not been
satisfactorily resolved. Experience with TA-II indicates that TAPC needs to
be fully staffed with I Deputy Secretary, 2 Assistance Chiefs, 1 Accountant,
and 2 Section Officers at all times. Efforts should also be made to ensure
continuity in TAPC staff. If a person is to be transferred, his replacement
should start work with sufficient overlap to give the newcomer enough time to
learn about the project from the outgoing staff member.
9.04      Consultant Selection Procedures.  While the selection of consultants
was carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines, studies were generally not
advertised. Instead, the Planning Commission relied on its consultant roster
and its previous experience under TA-I to prepare a list of international and
local firms, approved by the Bank, which were then invited to bid. In the case
of individual consultants there were no formal procedures  in place,  and
consultants were selected through a review of one or more CVs by the Planning
Division and the Bank. Whereas this eliminated the necessity of going through
a large number of applicants at the pre-qualification stage, it also eliminated
firms which, if included, could have presented a better product. This practice
of relying on an existing roster (as opposed to advertising and thereby
allowing new firms to also submit proposals) led to problems in a few cases,
such as the study on the Evaluation of TA-I, where 4 firms that were registered
with PC were invited to bid. Had the existing roster had been updated before



- 8 -
requesting proposals, some new firms might have been selected, and the final
output could have been somewhat better.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.01     RMP staff enjoyed an amiable working relationship with the TA Project
Cell.  This greatly helped in minimizing delays on issues which could have
taken considerable time if they had been limited only to the official channels.
11. Proiect Documentation and Data
11.01     Documentation on TA-II (including the legal documents and project
records/files) was of good quality. Supervision reports included details on
project performance, legal covenants, disbursements, and other relevant issues.
They flagged problem areas from time to time and constituted a set of documents
which were very helpful in preparation of the PCR.



- 9 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.  Introduction
1.01      Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
and International Development Association was signed on June 13, 1984 and the
project was to be completed by June 30, 1987.  However, the project started
late (the first withdrawal application was sent to World Bank for replenishment
on 11-7-1985) and the project has to be consequently extended up to De-
cember 31, 1988. Payments continued up to September 30, 1989.
2. Prolect Implementation
2.01      The progress of the Credit was uneven during its implementation
period. The pace of disbursement was quite fast in the earlier period because
of the availability of technical and other supporting staff and relatively more
flexible environment for the Project Director to take final decisions.
However, it slowed down significantly towards the latter half because of more
stringent procedural requirements (i.e., TAERC) inordinate delays at the Bank
in giving final clearance and duplication of work at the TAP Cell, the World
Bank Resident Mission and the Head Office in Washington. Shortage of proper
personnel in the TAP Cell and complicated tax issues further exacerbated the
situation.
2.02      The research program envisaged under the project was fairly heavy.
It included studies like Industrial Efficienc7, Restructuring of Heavy Forge
and Foundry (HFF) and Heavy Mechanical Complex (HMC), Steel Sector, Corporate
Planning, Coal Mining (PMDC), Trade Information System, and Mineral Development
in NWFP. These studies were essentially of an exploratory nature and provided
useful insight  into key  sectors.   Because of their exploratory nature,
inadequate technical expertise within GOP and delays on the part of World Bank
in responding to these studies, led to inordinate delays and time and cost over
runs.   Some studies, which were supposed to provide input into the Seventh
Plan, became available only after the Plan had been finalized and launched.
In some other areas, for example, the Corporate Planning Study and the
Industrial Efficiency Study, it is difficult to appreciate the utility of these
studies, since they required restructuring of policies which take a long term
period to be implemented.
2.03      The subproject for the Computerization of the Planning Division
failed completely. The Technical Committee was not qualified enough to select
hardware/software in the light of the requirements of the Planning Division.
The World Bank's insistence on procurement of NCR machines on the basis of the
minimum price bid led to the selection of a hardware configuration which was
not only unsuitable to the working of the Planning Commission, but which was
very expensive to operate (NCR's was an open ended bid).  The Computer was
later transferred to the Ministry of Interior and used by the Interior
Division/Registration  Authorities.    However,  the  NCR  computer mainframe
preempted all efforts to establish a viable computerization program in the
Planning Commission, thereby offsetting efforts to improve macro economic
management.
2.04      The report on "Income Distribution of Rural Households in Pakistan"
study remained incomplete. Similarly, the study on the Reservoirs of Panipir



- 10 -
could not be finalized. Several studies ran into difficulties/delays due to
taxation issues and almost all the studies were completed substantially behind
their schedule thereby registering cost over runs. The heaviest cost over run
was on the Industrial Efficiency Study due to wrong estimation of the cost of
the survey. The data used in the Study also remained dubious.
2.05      For some of the studies, the counterpart sponsoring agency was not
qualified technically and was indifferent with respect to making meaningful
comments or making use of the inferences drawn from the study. For example,
on the Trade Information System Study, the Ministry of Commerce was unable to
properly interact with the consultants and did not utilize the computer system
which was essential to assimilate the results.   Similarly,  comments from
relevant agencies on the Coal Mining Study took more than six months to
finalize.   Interactions between the GOP and the sponsors/consultants of the
Industrial Efficiency Study remained weak and marred by complicated tax issues
and the consultants' interface with the government agencies.
2.06      In some cases the studies were delayed due to unforeseen reasons.
The HFF Study, for example, was delayed due to disturbances in Karachi and
because the Project Manager fell sick.   Consequently some components (i.e.
Phase II of the studies) had to be dropped due to the impending delays and the
fast approaching closing date of the Credit. Similarly, delays in finalizing
the award of the HMC study also led to cost over ru-.s.
2.07      One of the main reasons for cost over runs was due to the time
consuming procedures and lack of a flexible environment for taking final
decisions. The Revolving Fund Account Facility to some extent provided a more
flexible environment for the implementation of the Credit, particularly with
respect to smaller payments which could be made promptly as they became due.
Nevertheless, duplication of work and unnecessary delays  for clearance from
the Bank's Head Office in Washington on small and petty issues of an adminis-
trative nature remained a constant source of de'lays.   The establishment of
TAERC further complicated matters since the sponsors of the proposal became the
final authority to approve the studies. As a result of these procedural delays
about 781,000 SDRs remained undisbursed and had to be returned to IDA despite
payment of commitment charges.
3. Conclusion
3.01      Implementation  of  the Credit  is,  therefore,  a mixed  story  of
successes and failures. The failures are essentially because of complicated
procedural delays, duplication of work, lack of commitment on the part of the
World Bank to clear TAC Project proposals on time, the establishment of the
technical committee (TAERC) combined with inadequate technical and supporting
staff in the TAP Cell and weak monitoring of the projects/subprojects.



- 11 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit               Purpose               Year of       Status
Title                                          Approval
TA-I        To support the GOP's adjustment   1982           Completed
Cr-1256     and refoin programs agreed under                   in 1985
SAL I by assisting in macroeconomic
planning, agricultural pricing,
industrial planning and incentive
reform, and support for project
preparation activities to strengthen
the Bank's project pipeline.
TA-III      To support the Government            1986          Ongoing
Cr-1755     in formulating and implementing
structural and policy reform
programs in key sectors and in
maintaining sound macroeconomic
management.
2.    Project Timetable
Item                 Date Planned       Date Revised    Actual
Identification/
Preparation                08/83               08/83         08/83
Appraisal                  04/20/84            04/20/84      04/20/84
Board Approval             06/13/84            05/02/84      05/02/84
Credit Signature           06/19/84            06/13/84      06/13/84
Credit Effectiveness       09/30/84            08/21/84      08/21/84
Credit Closing             12/31/87            12/31/88      12/31/88
Project Completion         06/30/88            09/30/89      09/30/89



- 12 -
3.    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Fiscal Year  Cumulative Commitments          Cumulative Disbursements
Appraisal      Actual           Appraisal        Actual
FY 85
1 Qtr            -            0
2              1,200.0                            -
3              2,000.0       450.0              1,200.0
4              2,800.0       450.0              1,600.0          -
FY 86
I Qtr          3,750.0       850.0             2,000.0         450.0
2              4,700.0      1,000.0             2,500.0        400.0
3              5,650.0      2,500.0             3,000.0        550.0
4              6,600.0      3,750.0            3,600.0        1,300.0
FY 87
1 Qtr          7,000.0      6,000.0            4,200.0        2,000.0
2                -          6,300.0             4,800.0       3,168.3
3                -          6,600.0             5,400.0       3,918.1
4                -          7,000.0            5,900.0        4,782.9
FY 88
1 Qtr            -            -                6,500.0        5,500.0
2                -                              7,000.0       6,850.0
3
4
FY 89
1 Qtr            --
2                                                             6,910.0
3
4
FY 90
1 Qtr            -
2                                                             7,280.0



- 13 -
4.   Missions
. _________________________________------------------------------------------
Stage of   Month/  No. of  Staff  Special-  Performance Type of
Project Cycle  Year    Persons Weeks  ization   Rating      Problem
Appraisal       04/84    3      3   Loan Officer/   -          -
Economisto (2)
Supervision I   04/85    2      1   Div. Chief/     2   Loan Covenants
Economist              Reporting
Mgt. Perf.
Supervision II  09/85    1     3   Economist        2   Loan Conditions
Reporting
Disbursements
Supervision III 03/86    2     3   Economist/       1   Loan Conditions
Oper. Asst.
Supervision IV  09/86    2     3   Economist/       1          -
Oper. Asst.
Supervision V   08/87    2     4   Economist/       1
Oper. Asst.
Supervision VI  11/88    1     3   Economist        1
5.   Status of Covenants
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
Section/Covenant                     Status of Compliance
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
2.02 (b( The Borrower shall maintain     In full compliance
the special account as established
under the TA-II on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank
3.01 (b) The Borrower shall maintain      In compliance from
the unit established under the TA-II      March, 1986
with duly qualified and experienced
staff in sufficient numbers
4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain      In full compliance
records and separate accounts to
reflect all expenditures
4.01 (b) The borrower shall submit        In compliance from
audited accounts to the Bank              September, 1986



- 14 -
6.    Studies
Name              Amount              Objective                       Impact of Study
1.  Industrial       $2,683,796      To develop a database             Provided input into
Efficiency                       of major subsectors,              GOP/Bank discussions
Development                      identify constraints to           on industrial trade
Strategy                         efficiency, propose               policy reforms.
medium term reforms for
reducing tariffs/import
prohibitions and identify
products for export/import
substitution.
2.  Steel Sector       £438,476      To formulate medium and           Successfully com-
Study             +$107,997      long term strategy for           pleted; provides
the steel industry.              excellent discussion
of sector issues.
Capacity of Steel
Mill being expanded.
3. Resttucturing       £257,500      To review technical,              Study carried out in
Heavy Mechanical  i$ 54,734       operational, financial            support of Bank
Complex                           and economic capability          Engineering/Steel
of HMC.                          Project which has now
been dropped. Reforms
being implemented by
HMC and State Engi-
neering Corp. of Pak.
4. Restructuring        £80,000      To review technical               Report reconnended
of Heavy Forge &   +$33,296       operational and economic          actions which were
Foundry (HFF)                     capability of the HFF and        discussed within
recommend restructuring &        GOP. Only Phase I
development for improving        completed.
economic/financial
efficiency.
Travel Costs of      $98,000
both HMC and HFF
studies
5. SCCP Staff           $14,500      Training of one staff             Training completed.
Training                          member of the Cement
Research Institute.
6. Identifi-           $463,602      To review mineral                 Sarhad development
cation of Mineral                 development efforts &            Authority, GONWFP &
Based Industries                  constraints, institu-            Mineral Coordination
NWFP                              tional, legal and policy          Board not in agree-
aspects, select survey           ment with TORS.
sites,formulate policy           Usefulness of the re-
framework for develop-           port limited.
ment and prepare at least
6 commercially viable
projects for mineral
exploitation.
7. Planning            $520,881      Procurement of hardware           Computer software
Commission                        software and training on          and support ser-
Computer                          computer system.                 vices not compatible
with the hardware.
Not successful.
8. Economic &        $332,102        To prepare feasibil-              PC-I's completed.
Technical Feasi-                  ity studies for 413               Feasibility studies
bility and PC-I                   Ian of road and bridges          were successfully
preparation for                   in FATA/PATA and prepare          completed which were
FATA/PATA                         PC-I's.                           submitted Lo the
Pakistan Consortium.



- 15 -
Name              Amount              Objective                       Impact of Study
9. Income               $52,174      Tc review aources of              Rural survey
Distribution          (PERI)      poyerty and income                succesafully com-
Study                $56,255      distribution in rural            peted and used in
(Consultant)   areas; linkages between           Bank anti-poverty
access to land and income        work. Consultant's
distribution  and analyse        final report not
policy options for the GOP.      submitted.
10. Corporate          $755,009      The study aimed at                Corporate plans
Planning                         installing a system of           develcped being
corporate planning in            used by the Min-
public sector enter-             istry of Production.
prises.
11. Re,.tructur-       $579,021      Analyse Pakistan                 Recommendations used
inb of Coal                      Mineral Development              for ESL (FY 89).
Mining Industry                  Corporation and prepare
technical and economic
restructuring plans.
12. TA-I Evalua-        $28,474      To evaluate TA-I operations,    Only a few of the
tion Program                     costs,selection of consul-       recommendations were
tants, impact of studies in    useful. Study was not
policy making.                   completed in time for
the results to be used
as an input in the
design & preparation
of TA-III.
13. Survey of           $80,727      To provide statistical           Results of the
Industries to                    data on energy consumptiorL      survey used in
Identify Energy                  in industry, identify energy   designing of
Conservation                     saving and fuel substitution   energy conser-
measures and identify con-       vation strategy.
traints on energy conservation.
14. Reservoir           $48,653      To determine size of gas         Report of Phase
Panjpir Studies                  reservoir, gas recov-:-y         I submitted to
mechanism, production and        OGDC. Phase II
long term plan for the           not completed
newly discovered Panjpir         due to consul-
Gas field.                       tants unresolved
tax issues.
15. Trade              $110,923      To set up a computer             Computer based Data
Information                      based Trade Information          system installed.
Systems                          System at the Ministry of
Commerce.
7.    Staff Inputs  (staffweeks)
FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91    TOTAL
Preappraisal    4.5           -       -       -       -       -       -        -      4.5
Appraisal          6.0        -       -       -       -        -       -       -      6.0
Negotiations    1.2                                                                   1.2
Supervision        0.7    2.6   15.3    7.8   10.7    6.7    7.3    7.0              58.1
Other                 -       -    0.5        -       -      _         -       -      0.5
Total          12.4    2.6   15.8    7.8   10.7    6.7    7.3    7.0              70.3



