Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
r - 
Report No. P-3 7 7 4-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRES IDE NT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELORPENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE D IRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 6.6 MILLION (US$ 7 MILLION EQUIVALEN1
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 2, 1984
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reeipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 = Rs 13.5
Rs 1 = US$ 0.0741
Fiscal Year
Government of Pakistan
July 1 - June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
APC         Agricultural Prices Commission
EAC         Experts Advisory Cell
GOP         Government of Pakistan
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
TA          Technical Assistance
TAPC        Technical Assistance Project Cell
UNDP        United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAK I STAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I
Borrower:                  Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                    SDR 6.6 million (US$7 million equivalent).
Terms:                     Standard.
Proiect Description:    The proposed project would provide continued
assistance to the Government in implementing its
ongoing structural adjustment program in key
sectors of the economy which has also been
supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
and a first Technical Assistance Project,
approved in 1982. The proposed project would
assist the Government in preparation of appro-
priate sectoral adjustment programs to be
supported by a series of proposed Bank Sector Loans.
The project focuses on assisting the Government in
the areas of national economic planning, agricultural
policy, industrial planning and incentives, public
enterprises management and efficiency, education,
health and energy planning and project preparation.
It provides for the financing of consultant and
expert services, a number of contracted studies,
computer hardware and software, vehicles, and
training and fellowships for local staff.  Given
the Government's experience with the first
Tecinical Assistance Project there are no major
¶                                     risks involved.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost:
Local       Foreign        Total
-----------US$1000…
I.    Planning
Computerization                                 90         1,710           1,800
Flow of Funds Analysis                          -              40             40
II.   Agriculture and Water
Agricultural Prices Commission                  30            280            310
Irrigation Investment Study                    100            100            200
Sectoral Adjustment Program                     -             300            300
III.  Industry
Experts Advisory Cell                           60            305            365
Incentive Reform Program                        -             238            238
Steel Sector Study                              -             500            500
Sectoral Adjustment Program                     -             300            300
IV.   Energy
Gas Peak Shaving Study                          -             300            300
Sectoral Adjustment Program                     -             320            320
V.    Social Sectors
Health Sector Studies                          120            145            2'65
Education Sector Studies                       100            300            400
VI.   Other
Pre-Investment Studies                          -           1,500          1,500
TA Evaluation Program                           38             -              38
Counterpart Staff and
Support Services                          1,500              -          1,500
Total Base Cost                              2,038         6,338          8,376
Price Contingencies                             15            109            124
Grand Total                                    2,053 a/       6,447          8,500
a! Including taxes on local costs which are neglibable.



-i ii-
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
-----    Us$ (000) -
IDA                                 553        6,447       7,000
Government                        1,500          -         1,500
-----        --- --      -- ----
Total                           2,053        6,447       8,500
Estimated Disbursements:
…--------------uS$   (000)…
IDA FY            FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Annual                               875   2,575   2,575    975
Cumulative                           875  3,450   6,025   7,000
Map: IBRD 16248R



or



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
SECONDt TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 6.6 million (US$7 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms for a proposed second technical assistance
project to support the Government's adjustment program in key sectors of the
economy.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Recent Economic
Developments (No. 4906-PAK, dated February 24, 1984) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 13, 1984.
3.      Economic developments during FY83 were generally favorable.  GDP grew
by 5.8%, with value added in agriculture rising by 4.8% and in industry by
8.3%. Continued stagnation in (fixed) investment, which declined slightly
from 13.6% of GNP in FY82 to 13.4% of GNP in FY83, was among the few
unfavorable events. National savings, on the other hand, rose sharply from
10.9% to an estimated 14.1% of GNP. The declining trend in the rate of
inflation continued; as measured by the consumer price index, the rate of
inflation slowed from 11.5% in FY82 to 5.2% in FY83.
4.      There was a dramatic turnaround in the balance of payments in FY83.
The current account deficit, at US$554 million (1.8% of GNP), was less than
half the size of deficits in recent years. This outcome reflected three main
factors: a resumption in the growth of exports following a substantial
decline in FY82; a slight decline in the value of imports; and buoyant remit-
tances from migrant workers. Exports grew by 13%, nearly regaining their
FY81 level. The most striking feature of the export performance was the
growth of non-traditional exports, which increased by over a third. The drop
in imports reflected, inter alia, higher domestic production of oil and
import-substitution in some key commodities. The incipient recovery in world
trade and delinking of the exchange rate from the U.S. dollar in January
1982, with its subsequent depreciation, contributed significantly to the
11 Parts I and II are substanl:ially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report P-3759-1'AK (Integrated Hill Farming Development
Project), dated March 26, 1984.



-2-
improved balance of payments picture. Given the favorable outcome on the
current account, normal levels of net inflows of long-term capital, and net
IMF purchases, Pakistan's reserves more than doubled. At the end of FY83,
gross official reserves stood at US$1,911 million, the equivalent of 3.5
months' of imports of goods and non-factcr services.
5.      Notable progress was made in many areas during the Fifth Five-Year
Plan Period (FY79-83). Real growth rates in national output (6.3%), agricul--
ture (4.4%), industry (9.1%) and exports (9.2%), though below Plan targets,                  £
were all substantially above the rates achieved during 1970-78 and very
respectable compared to the performance of other LDCs over the same period.
This growth - coupled with increased inflows oi migrant remittances -
benefited large segments of the urban and rural population. The output of
all major crops reached record levels and self--sufficiency in wheat and sugar
was achieved.  Encouraged by improved government policies, private investment
in manufacturing expanded by 8% p.a. in real terms; this expansion was more
than offset by the declining public investment in the sector, however. The
balance of payments performance was quite satiEsfactory: the current account
deficit declined significantly relative t(o GDP. Government fiscal and credit
policies reduced budget deficits and monetary expansion and inflationary
pressures gradually subsided.  This progr(ess was made despite a number of
unforeseen events; (a) world recession; (b) a 30% decline in the external
terms of trade after 1979; (c) the Afghan crisis, which necessitated
increased outlays for defense and riefugee assistance; and (d) a continued
decline in real net aid flows.
6.      In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives to
improve agricultural, industrial and fiscal and credit policies. In
agriculture, particular attention has been given to improving farmer incen-
tives and input supplies. Support prices for all major crops have been
raised so that they are now closer to wor:Ld prices. At the same time, steps
have been taken to reduce the fertiLizer subsidy. An Agricultural Prices
Commission has been set up to make recommendations on appropriate changes in
crop support and input prices on a consisl:ent and timely basis.
7.      The Government has formulated and begun to implement a new agricul-
tural policy based on the main recommendations of a UNDP study on irrigated
agriculture which emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water
delivery system through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better
scheduling of water deliveries to the farmser, and to expand the role of the
private sector.  Other programs--in pesticides, seeds, agricultural credit,
extension, research and farm power-have Ellso been strengthened. These
initiatives are still at an early stage arLd a breakthrough from the problems
of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.                                  4
8.      Major changes have also been made during the past five years in
government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead



-3-
industrial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricul-
tural processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; legal
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of fiscal. incentives have been granted to encourage
private investment and exports. These have been supplemented by a
liberalization of imports which has improved the availability of inputs. The
investment sanctioning procedure has been streamlined. These measures have
X          led to an improvement in private sector confidence and stimulated private
investment, mainly in small and medium-scale projects.
9.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been
abolished, the number of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level.  Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures have helped to increase production and capacity utilization substan-
tially in the public sector.
10.     Fiscal performance improved significantly over the Fifth Plan period.
The overall budget deficit and government borrowing from the banking system,
which stood at 8.8% and 4.3% of GDP in the first year of the Plan, fell to
6.4% and 1.7%, respectively, by the final year.  Reduced levels of government
borrowing from banks, together with overall credit restraint, led to lower
rates of growth of the money supply and lessened inflationary pressures;
prices rose by 5% in the final year of the Plan as compared with 8% in the
first year. The improvement in fiscal performance was, however, largely the
result of expenditure restraint rather than better revenue performance. Real
expansion in current expenditures on economic and social services barely kept
pace with population growth and development expenditures declined relatively
to GDP. At the same time, government revenues remained constant at 16% of
GDP and public savings, having risen in the first half of the Plan period
from 1% to 3.8% of GNP, amounted to only 1.6% in the last year of the Plan.
Greater resource mobilization by the public sector will be critical for the
implementation of the Sixth Plan.
11.     The developments in the Pakistan economy since 1977 represent welcome
steps towards the solution of a set of problems which are essentially struc-
tural and long term in nature. Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the main issues are necessary if Pakistan is
to sustain its recently improved economic performance over the Sixth
Five-Year Plan period (FY84-88). These issues include the farm-level factors
affecting low productivity in agriculture; the structure and competitiveness
of the industrial sector; the need to restrain the growth of energy demand



-4-
and improve the exploitation of domestic energy resources; the factors lying
behind continued rapid growth in population; and the problems of resource
mobilization.
12.     Agriculture remains the economy's mainestay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Except in the
important case of wheat, agricultural growth since the mid-1970s has been the
product of acreage expansion with little improvement in yields. Because of
the diminishing supply of uncultivated land, as well as the high cost of
extending the irrigation system, a switch to more intensive agriculture is
essential. The achievement of higher productivity will require improved
agricultural services and increased efficiency of the irrigation system as
well as continued attention to producer incentives. Toward the latter part
of the Fifth Plan, some progress was made in r(eorienting expenditures towards
projects designed to rehabilitate and improve the operation and maintenance
of the irrigation system, increase the efficiency of water use, improve
quality of research and extension, and increase the supply of complementary
agricultural inputs. These effortes will need to be accelerated during the
Sixth Plan period. To encourage greater agricultural yields, the Government
must also continue to rationalize prices of agricultural outputs and inputs.
In recent years, pricing decisions have been taken in a more systematic and
timely fashion based on recommendations by the newly formed Agricultural
Prices Commission; procurement prices have been brought more nearly in line
with international prices and subsidies Eor fertilizers and pesticides sub-
stantially reduced. These efforts, too, will need to be continued during the
Sixth Plan period.
13.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. After a period of
stagnation during the period 1970-77, manufacturing growth has again
accelerated. To provide a solid economic basis for continued rapid growth,
incentives for greater private and public manufacturing enterprise efficiency
will have to be implemented. Despite some success in reviving the private
sector and improving the performance of public enterprises, much remains to
be done to bring about a major restructuring of industry and place it on a
competitive basis. The efficient long-term dtevelopment of the industrial
sector will require both a relaxation of government controls and rationaliza-
tion of industrial incentives. To encourage industrial growth more in line
with Pakistan's comparative advantage, the process of import liberalization
initiated over the past few years must be continued. In addition, the dif-
ferential rates of protection given to various domestic products need to be
substantially narrowed. To provide further encouragement for private invest-
ment as well as to attract risk capital, the number of administrative regula-
tions must be reduced.  In addition, the scope of price controls should be
substantially narrowed, especially the use of cost-plus pricing which dis-
courages improvements in efficiency and energy conservation. Further strong
measures to increase efficiency and self-financing capacity in the public
sector are also essential. The implementation of the Public Enterprises



-5-
Signaling System in FY84--which has set performance objectives for individual
enterprises and will provide bonus incentives for managers--should contribute
toward the achievement of these objectives.
14.     Energy shortages have become a significant constraint to rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Power and gas shortages are common and the
country imports 90% of its petroleum needs costing over 26% of total imports.
Energy investments to improve the energy situation total over 33% of public
investment in the Sixth Five Year Plan. The Government's efforts to deal
with the energy situation by adjusting domestic oil prices, and by encourag-
ing the substitution of other energy forms and the exploration and develop-
ment of domestic oil resources, have met with some success.  Growth of
petroleum consumption has been restrained by the development of hydroelec-
tricity and natural gas resources as well as by petroleum price adjustments.
At the same time, activity in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some
instances through joint ventures with foreign private companies. Never-
theless, due to a variety of technical, geological and other reasons,
progress on exploration of new fields as well as the development of existing
fields has been slow and Pak:istan"s considerable potential in the oil and gas
sector has yet to be realized. The Government has begun to implement a
number of reforms relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and
organization in order to accelerat:e progress.
15.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid economic growth, it is also
necessary to contain the rapid growth in population, currently running at
about 2.8% p.a. Family planning programs have so far had little effect and
there have been few changes in the socio-economic environment of a type that
usually accompany declines in. fertility. Rapid population growth places
severe burdens on government resources simply to maintain education and
health programs at their current inadequate standards. However, without
higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a reduction in child
mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can be much reduced.
The Government has recently shown more awareness of this problem.
16.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context oi- continued domestic and external resource
constraints. National savings averaged only 12% of GNP over the Fifth Plan
Period. To improve the budget. and the balance of payments, a fundamental
improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy, par-
ticularly in public savings.  Given the size of the public sector's domestic
resource requirements, a comprehensive strategy that utilizes all available
instruments, including taxation policy, greater reliance on user charges,
curtailment of open and implicit subsidies and improved self-financing of
investment by public enterprises, will be needed.
17.     The Sixth Five-Year Plan, initiated on July 1, 1983, represents a
pragmatic overall strategy for Pakistan's continued rapid development. The
Plan puts heavy stress upon improvements in economic policies as well as on a



-6-
public expenditure programn. Recognizing the importance of a dynamic private
sector for rapid economic growth and the limitations on public sector
resources, it calls for reduced regulations on the private sector, increased
emphasis on market incentives for greater production and efficiency and for
increased participation in sectors where the Government has previously played
a large role. The size and composition of the public sector development
program is appropriate. While public development expenditures would expand
only as rapidly as gross domestic product:, this is a realistic target given
projected available resources and the de1nands for improved public services.
To achieve such an expansion - a rieversal of the declining trend experienced
under the Fifth Plan - and to finance an increasing share from domestic
resources will require a major mobilization effort. The largest increases in
sectoral allocations have gone to energy, agriiculture and irrigation, and the
social sectors. The shift in the composition of the public sector develop-
ment program is justified because of the threat to future growth posed by
energy shortages, the need to increase agricultural yields by improvements in
agricultural and irrigation/drainage services, and the past neglect of the
social sectors.
18.     The recent policy initiatives, wrhich are to be continued during the
Sixth Plan, have improved Pakistan's creditworthiness for commercial borrow-
ing and for a blend of Bank and IDA borrowing. At the end of calendar 1982,
Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the undisbursed pipeline) stood at
US$9.2 billion, of which US$4.8 billion was owed to bilateral members of the
Pakistan Consortium. US$1.3 billion to OPEC and US$1.8 billion to multi-
lateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders, In
1982, the Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external public indebtedness was
15.2% and in external debt service was 12.1%. According to Bank forecasts,
provided recent policy improvements are sustained, Pakistan's debt service
ratio (debt service divided by exports of goods and factor and non-factor
services), which was about 13.7% (including 'IMF charges) in FY82, is likely
to remain below 15% during the 1980s, even assuming substantial commercial
borrowing.
PART II_- BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
19.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of Loans and Credits or portions therecof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.9 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 30% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for agriculture and irrigation; 26% for industry
including import program credits; 21% for transport, telecommunications and
public utility services; 14% for energy including power, gas pipelines and
petroleum; 4% for social programs in education, population and urban
development; and 5% for a SAL.



-7-
20.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
21.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
waterlogging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government s program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investments, as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
22.     In industry, lending through DFCs and other financial intermediaries
which has been mainly for the private sector totals US$438.5 million. This
includes eleven Loans/Credit:s for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation (PICIC), two Credits for the Industrial Development
Bank of Pakistan (IDBP), one Credit for the National Development Finance
Corporation (NDFC), a Credit. for Small Scale Industries through five commer-
cial banks, and a Loan/Credit for industrial investment through five par-
ticipating financial institutions including two commercial banks. Direct
lending for industry has also included assistance to three iarge fertilizer
plants and a refinery engineering loan. As of September 30. 1983, IFC had
made investments in 16 Pakistan enterprises for a total of US$182.0 million,
of which US$170.4 million was by way of loans and US$11.6 million by equity
participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$55.7 million of these
investments remained outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include
three in the field of pulp and paper products, two each in textiles, food and
food processing, and petrochemicals, and one each in cement, steel,
fertilizers, plastics, and wood processing. IFC is also a shareholder in
PICIC.
23.     The Bank has had a long standing involvement in the energy sector.
In power, the Bank Group has assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation
J*        (KESC) and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and
three projects respectively; the sector has also been assisted by the con-
struction under the Indus Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela
Dams.  In petroleum, the two Sui gas transmission companies have been
assisted with five projects, while the Bank group is financing two petroleum
projects, for production and exploration, and is playing an important role in
strengthening the public Oil. and Gas Development Corporation. An IDA credit
to support a Coal Exploration Project was recently approved. These efforts
are assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's



domestic energy resources and in establishing a policy and institutional
framework for increased private investment in the sector.  In addition, IFC
has made three loans in the petroleum sector.
24.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transvort and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capaci ty by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Trust, Pakistan Railways, the Telephone and Telegraph Department, and federal
and provincial highway agencies.  IDA has financed four projects in the urban
and rater supply sector, three of which are cutrrently being implemented.
Five credits for education, totaling US$62.5 rniillion, have assisted in
upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and agricultural
education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricultural exten-
sion agents. A first population project was recently approved.
25.     In addition to financing specific high-priority projects in key
sectors of the economy, the Bank has from time to time supported Pakistan's
development through program assistance.  A first structural adjustment lend-'
ing operation (SAL) was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1982.
This SAL program consists of a number of significant reforms in govermnent
development planning and in policies and programs in the agriculture, energy,
and industrial sectors.
26.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
as of September 30, 1983. Credit -and loan disbursements have been generally
satisfactory. Some projects have experienced initial delays due to protracted
government procedures for project approval, which are being addressed, and
to slowness in the procurement of goods and services. Rapid turnover of
managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East,
and budgetary constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
27.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan, These include projects for
power transmission and generation, direct and indirect industrial investments,
oil and gas development, irrigation, agriculture and education.  Pakistan
continues to have domestic resource constraint:s for the reasons set out in
Part I. To assist the Government to finance agricultural and other high-
priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing of
some local expenditures in specific cases is `iustified.
28.     In addition to letnding, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of
Pakistan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assis-
tance within the Pakistan Consortium.



-9-
PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSIST.ANCE
29,     Over the past three years the Bank Group has provided technical
assistance to Pakistan through a variety of channels. IBRD/IDA financed
projects have included technical assistance components totalling US$66.0
million. Also a Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1256-PAK) of US$7 million
equivalent was approved by the Board of Directors in 1982 together with a
Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit.  In addition, Bank executed UNDP technical
!f        assistance projects totallin.g US$16.4 million have prepared a pipeline of
high priority investments in, the agricultural and irrigation sectors suitable
for financing by the Bank group or other donors. About 59% of total techni-
L         cal assistance provided through IBRD/IDA projects was allocated to the
agriculture and water sectors, 18% to the energy sector, and 14% to the
urban, education and population sectors.
30.     The effectiveness of Bank supported technical assistance has not been
uniform. Generally the most useful results have been achieved when the
output from the studies or research reflected a close consensus between Bank
staff and GOP officials, has been delivered quickly and informally to GOP and
followed up through frequent contacts in the course of project preparation.
The existence of the SAT, Credit/Loan was most valuable in this respect, it
has ensured that technical assistance inputs were reviewed by GOP at senior
levels and that timely response was given on the appropriateness of the
recommendations and feasibility for implementation. With some exceptions,
those technical assistance inputs were less effective which were
IVrequirements" of approved project operations, conducted on the basis of
"negotiated" terms of reference and were carried out with little or no direct
staff participation or supervision.
31.     The Bank's important technical assistance inputs to Pakistan over
the past few years in the agriculture and water sectors include its role as
executing agency for a major UNDP-financed Indus Basin Study which led to a
'Revised Action Program' for irrigated agriculture. Following extensive
sector dialogue the recommendations included in the study were adopted in
principle by GOP and specific steps have been implemented under the
Fertilizer Imports Credit approved in FY81 and the SAL program. In addition,
UNDP financed technical assistance was used for the preparation of the Left
Bank Drain Outfall Project, the Command Water Management Project, the
Kalabagh Dam Project, a SCARY Transition Project and a project for
Electrification of Private Tubewells. Technical assistance in the industry
and energy sectors was primarily provided within the framework of the first
Technical Assistance Credit and concentrated on national power planning,
industrial sub-sector studies, the Public Enterprise Signaling System and the
first phase of an Incentive Reform Program.
The First TA Proiect: Objectives and Achievements
32.     The first Technical Assistance Credit (TA I) was designed to support
GOP in the implementation of its structural adjustment program as outlined



-10-
under the SAL Loan/Credit.  The main focus of 1:he credit was to assist in the
areas of macro-economic planning, agricultural pricing, industrial planning
and incentive reform, monitoring and performance evaluation of public
enterprises, national power planning and support of project preparation
activities to strengthen the project pipeline for IBRD/IDA financing. The
credit financed a variety of studies and research programs as well as
institution building efforts for institutions crucial to the adjustment
process of the economy.
33,     Experiences with the TA I program have been positive and a variety of
components paved the way for direct policy actions and for further follow-up
steps taken by GOP. Most prominent among those were the financing of the
preparation and implementation of the Public Eniterprise Signaling System, a
performance evaluation and monitoring system for public manufacturing
enterprises, and the first phase of the Study on Effective Protection, which
is now being continued in a second phase and is iexpected to lead to a com-
prehensive industrial incentive reform program. Equally important was the
support provided to the Agricultural Prices Corunission which was established
in 1981 under the Fertilizer Import Credit (Cr. 1066-PAK) to collect and
evaluate data for the preparation of agricultural support prices for the
cropping seasons. The Commission has, in the Last years, played an important.
role in the timely preparation of data and the preparation of methods for the
definition of adequate agricultural input and output prices as well as the
reduction of fertilizer subsidies achieved under the SAL program. Support
was also provided for preparing a number of important sector studies par-
ticularly in industrial sub-sectors, which were used as direct inputs into
the formulation of the po]Licy framework for the Government's Sixth Five Year
Plan (FY84-88).
34.     The TA I project proved to be a very flexible financing instrument
which not only could be directed quickly to pr:iority needs of the Government,
but also acted as a link between the Bank's economic and sector work and
Government work programs.  It has been an exceLlent vehicle for promoting
borrower participation and therefore greatly stupported joint Bank/GOP
economic and sector work. A number of studies, particularly in the
industrial sector, were carried out by Bank staff with the support of spe-
cialized consultants financed under TA I in response to an agreed economic
and sector work program which satisfied the needs of both the Government and
the Bank. GOP has maintained a continuous involvement in the formulation and
implementation of these studies through partic:ipation in the definition of
the Terms of Reference, selection of consultants and supervision of implemen--
tation progress and has been extremely receptive to the sector analysis and
recommendations included in these reports. Th:is has already been demon-
strated by the direct impact such sector recommlendations had in the policy
formulation of respective sector programs in the Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
closer collaboration brought about through the joint implementation of
studies and programs financed under TA I has undoubtedly enhanced the
economic and sector dialogue between GOP and the Bank.



-11-
35.     The TA I credit is now fully committed while disbursements remain
behind schedule. Delays in disbursements were primarily due to insufficient
staffing of the Technical AEssistance Project Cell (TAPC) in the Planning
Commission, which was created to coordinate and supervise the various com-
ponents financed under the project. Disbursements were further held up
because of delays in processing withdrawal applications for rupee expendi-
tures by the TAPC. Staffing of the TAPC has recently been increased and we
expect this will relieve the bottlenecks experienced in the past.
The Need For Further Assistance
36.     In order to continue support for GOP's process of structural adjust-
ment as initiated under SAL I and now continued within the policy programs of
the Sixth Five Year Plan a second Technical Assistance project is needed.
Support to GOP's adjustment program would include the continuation of several
study components financed under TA I, the continuation of important institu-
tion building efforts and inclusion of new programs to support the proposed
sector lending strategy for Pakistan as recently discussed and formulated
between GOP and the Bank.
37.     With the satisfactory coripletion of the first SAL a new strategy is
being developed to continue structural adjustment in key sectors of
Pakistan's economy in order to maintain the momentum of growth in the economy
and to enhance the economy s creditworthiness. The strategy provides for the
development of sector policy statements in agriculture, industry, and energy.
These statements would provide the policy framework for project lending and
sector loans in each of the sectors. As experience is gained, more sectors
would be similarly treated, including education and transport.
38.     GOP is now actively preparing sector policy statements in the energy,
industry and agriculture sectors. GOP has agreed to set up a Sector Policy
Review Working Group for each of these sectors to prepare respective policy
letters for review by the Bank. TA funds would be used to support the
activities of these working groups in the preparation of policy positions
and programs to be included in the policy statements. The policy statements
in the three sectors are expected to cover the investment program, improve-
ments in the incentive structure and possible reform programs in key sectoral
institution and/or the organizational framework.
39.     In addition TA funds would be used to support Bank/GOP lending opera-
tions and policy dialogue in sectors not included under the sector loan
programs. This is particularly necessary for the social sectors, especially
education. GOP has requested increased lending to the education sector which
requires intensified sector work as well as increased institution building
efforts. Policy analysis and preparation of policy programs are required
now to step up project lending and to move toward sector loans in the future.
The TA credit provides a good mechanism for providing government with funds
required to enable it to take over some of the sector work required.



-12-
PART IV - THE PROJECT'
4O0     The project was appraised in Februiary 1984.  Negotiations were held
in Washington on April 18, 1984; the GOP delegation was headed by Mr. Meekal
Ahmed, Director, Technical Assistance Project Cell, Ministry of Planning.
There is no separate Staff Appraisa'L Report. Supplementary data on the
credit are contained in Annex III. Annex IV outlines the agreed procedures
for iimplementing, monitoring and supervising the proposed project.
Disaggregated cost estimates are outlined in Anne!x V.
Ob iec iives
41.     The proposed project is designed to support GOP's structural adjust-
ment, process by financing studies and programs critical to the formulation
and itaplementation of policy reform programs and for preparation of related
high priority  projects and sector loans i'ncluded in the Bank's lending
program, Components included in the proposed credit strongly reflect this
poli.Cy7 focus and emphasize sectors and institutions considered vital to the
policy adjustment process. The project is also designed to encourage
Pakistan to accelerate the process of identifying, designing and supervising
policy work, with the Bank acting in an acdvisory role.
Pro jit Description
42.     Components for the various sectors have been broadly defined, and
since the proposed project is expected to remain a flexible financing instru-
ment i'n support of GOP's evolving structural adjustment process, components
can be readjusted if circumstances change, TORs and Bidding Documents for
components to be financed in the first year of implementation have been
reviewed and found satisfactory by the Association. The proposed project
would be executed over a three year period. It would comprise the components
described in the following paragraphs.
Plan2nig
43.     The successful assistance to the national planning effort provided
under TA I would be extended through a comprehensive computerization program.
Under this program a management information system would be established which
would record, retrieve, and analyze data on all projects under preparation,
appraisal and implementation.  This management information system would serve
the newly established Project Wing in the Planning Ministry to supervise
preparation and implementation of the large number of projects in the
country.  The system would also provide necessary information for the Annual
Development Plan. In addition a sectoral data base would be established for
the irndustry, agriculture and water sectors. T]he computerization program
would further provide facilities for aid programming and debt management.
The 'LA program would finance hardware and software as well as a comprehensive
training program. Also included in the Planning  Component is a modest amount



-13-
to complete the Flow of Funds Analysis commenced and well advanced under TA
I.
Agriculture and Water
44.     The Credit would provide continued support to the Agricultural Prices
Commission in order to strenLgthen its role in preparing comprehensive and
timely data and policy programs for the preparation of respective pricing
decision of GOP.  In addition, financing would be provided under the proposed
project to support preparation of the proposed agricultural policy statement
and sector loan. The adjustment of the Indus Basin irrigation/drainage
investment model which has been prepared by the Bank to guide actual invest-
ment decisions in the water sectcr would also be included.
Industr
45.     The proposed project: would provide continued support to the Experts
Advisory Cell (EAC) of the Minist.ry of Production. The Signaling System
established by EAC calls for further refinements and the EAC requires con-
tinued financial and technical assistance to develop the additional features
of the Signaling System. The proposed project would also help EAC to formu-
late a program to help in the definition and evaluation of corporate planning
programs. This program would evetntually be linked to the Signaling System.
46.     Financing would also be provided for a Steel Sector Study to recom-
mend policy and production adjustments in the production program of the
Karachi Steel Mill and down-stream industries. In addition, support would be
made available to the working group on industrial incentives established
under the Ministry of Finance. This working group will play a crucial role
in the formulation of a revised industrial incentive system and in the
preparation of an industrial policy statement to accompany an expanded
industrial lending program by the Bank. Some limited assistance in the
preparation of further subsector policy studies such as mining would also be
included under the proposed project.
Enerrgy
47.     Studies in the energy sector would complement the extensive USAID
program in this sector and would continue the series of energy studies com-
menced under TA I. Specifically, the proposed project would finance studies
aimed at improving the efficiencies of energy allocation and use including
gas peak shaving and fuel use andL efficiency in the power sector. Assistance
would also be available to support the work required to develop an
appropriate sectoral adjustmlent program in this sector.
Social Sectors
48.     The proposed project would finance a number of specialized studies
in the health sector includ.ing a review of the organization and management of



-14-
health services at the district level, the social security program, the use
of pharmaceuticals and a study on medicaL education curriculum development.
These studies would be a follow-up to the Health Sector Report (Report No.
4736-PAK) prepared by the Bank in FY83.  In the education sector the proposed
project would support the newly created National. Academy for Education
Planning and Management which has been entrusted with major responsibilities
in planning, research and training. TA l-unds would be used to finance con-
sultancies in the training and research program of the Academy as well as
some computer hardware to establish a management information system.  In
addition specific policy oriented studies would be financed to formulate
education programs particularly in the primary, secondary and non-formal
education sectors.
Pro ect Preparation
49.     Sufficient resources would be made available to finance feasibility
and pre-investment activities leading to potential projects for IBRD/IDA
financing.  Particular emphasis would be given to the preparation of projects
in social sectors. It is anticipated that project preparation in the
agriculture and water sectors would conti:nue to be financed from an expanded
UNDP Umbrella Project. Should sufficienl: financing not be made available
under this program the proposed project would cover some project preparation
for the agriculture and water sectors as well.
Evaluation Program
50.     An evaluation component to assess the impact of specific components
under TA I would be an important feature of the Second TA project. The
component would evaluate the project as a whole in the light of the project's
original objectives and its role relative to other donor's TA programs. This
evaluation program would be carried out when the majority of TA I components
have been implemented and when it will be possible to assess the effects of
the various studies and programs on the respective sectors.
Project Implementation
51.     The Project would be admin:istered by the Technical Assistance Project
Cell (TAPC) established within the Ministry of Planning under the TA I
project. The TAPC is headed by a P?roject Director and is now adequately
staffed to supervise and monitor implemenitaticn of the project and the
programming of funds related to it. The progress of the components would be
monitored by the missions from headquarter in tandem with the development of
the ongoing sectoral adjustment dialogue and by the Bank's resident mission
in Pakistan, which would be responsible for the routine supervision of the
first TA project and the proposed isecond project. All proposed activities
under the project would be subject to thie Government's normal procedures for
review and approval of studies which have been. reviewed and found acceptable
by the Association. Each participating ministry or agency would be respon-
sible for its components of the project, including preparation of terms of



-15-
reference, selection and recruitment of consultants, procurement and training
activities. Procedures for implementing, monitoring and supervising
activities under the proposed project as outlined in Annex IV, have been
agreed with TAPC.
Project Costs and Financing
52.     The estimated total project cost (including taxes which are
negligable) is US$8.5 million, of which US$6.4 million or 75% would be
foreign. Price contingencies for consultants, vehicles, equipment, training
and fellowships are based on annual rates of 3.5% in 1984, and 8.0% in 1985
and 9% in 1986 and thereafter.  Costs are based on mid 1984 prices.  The
Credit would finance the cost of studies, consultants, equipment, vehicles,
training and fellowships. The executing agencies would meet the costs of
counterpart staff, office facilities, and other support services estimated to
cost $1.5 million. Disaggregated cost estimates are outlined in Annex V.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.     Contracts for equipment and vehicles would not be of a sufficient
size to attract foreign suppliers under ICB and would be procured using local
shopping procedures acceptable to the Association with the exception of the
mainframe computer hardware and periferals for the Planning Commission
estimated at US$1.96 million, which would be procurred through international
competitive bidding according to IDA guidelines. The aggregate value of
items to be procured using local shopping is estimated not to exceed
US$400,000. Specialist consultant services estimated at US$920,000 and
studies to be contracted estimated at US$3.7 million would be obtained in
accordance with the Association's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.  The
remaining costs consist of fellowships and training. All procurement
proposals would be subject t:o prior review by IDA and would include detailed
breakdowns of expenditures.
54.     The Credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a) studies, consultants,
and overseas training: 100%' of total expenditures; and (b) vehicles and
equipment: 100% of foreign or local ex-factory expenditures or 65% of expen-
ditures if locally procured. In order to expedite payment of expenditures, a
special account (revolving fund) would be set up in a local bank (Section
2.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Disbursements against
all items would be fully documented. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted in 42 months.
Reporting, Accounts and Auditing
55.     The Ministry of Planning and Development would be required to submit
semi-annual progress reports in a form acceptable to the Association covering
the activities under the proposed project. Consolidated project accounts for
all expenditures financed under the Credit would be established and main-
tained by the Ministry of Planning and Development. These accounts and



-16-
supporting records would be audited annually by auditors acceptable to IDA
and the audit reports would be submitted to IDA no later than six months
after the close of the fiscal year.,
Benefits and Risks
56.     The proposed project would help GOP to continue its economic adjust-
ment process which has been successfully initiated during the last years and
supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit. Assistance in the
various sectors would prepare necessary sectoral policy reforms and would
prepare investments in the various sectors to be financed by donor agencies
or GOP.  Given GOP's experience with the first T'echnical Assistance Project
there are no major implementation risks involved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
58.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI -- RECOITMENDATION
59,     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 2, 1984



-17-
ANNEX I
T A BLE   3A                                             PAGE I
PAKISTAN                  - SOCIAL. INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (IEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT  /b            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
19601-       1970    ESTIMATS-           ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOOSASD SQ. A)
TOTAL                                  803.9         803.9        803.9
AGRICULTURAL                           228.8         243.3        253.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        70.0        140.0        350.0                276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPFION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         143.0         209.0        224.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   45851.0          60449.0      84501.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           22.1          24.9         28.7                 21.5                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  148.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    410.6
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                           57.0         75.2         102.1                161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               20Q.4        248.4        324.1                363.1                       1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                             43.8         46.3          46.3                 36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                             51.8         50.5          50.9                 59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           4.4          3.2           2.8                  4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
iOTAL                                  2.3          2.8           3.0                  1.9                         2.3
URBAN                                  4.6           4.0          4.3                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            51.3          47.4         45.5                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TOUS)            24.3          19.9         15.8                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.7           3.5          3.1                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..      1908.1       1244.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..           .           6.0                 48.1                        46.6
FOOD AIlD NlIfRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           89.0        102.0         106.0                111.4                       125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          88.0         97.0         106.0                 98.1                       114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              58.0         60.0         65.0                  56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            23.0         20.0         20.0/c               13.9                         14.1
CITLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             25.4          21.5         17.3                 12.2                          7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           43.3          46.2         50.2                 59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          161.5        143.0         123.2                 96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..         21.0         29.0/d               32.9                        37.1
URBAN                                   ,,         77.0          60.07W               70.8                        54.8
RURAL                                    ..         4.0          17.0/d              22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                3 3.0        6.0/e               18.1                        41.4
URBAN                                   ,,         12.0         21.077                72.7                        47.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..            ..                  4.7                        33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5400.0       4300.0/f    3480.0/f              3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              16960.0      10580.G7f    5820.071               4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1790.0       1860.0       1900.0/c             1100.6                       104 7.2
URBAN                                510.0        650.0         710.077             298.4                        651.1
v                       RURAL                              22850.0       12480.0      11860.07             5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..           ..                   ..                        27.0
RDOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  5.4          5.3
URBAN                                  5.6           5.5
RURAL                                  5.4           5.2
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  3.1          2.8/8
URBAN                                  3.1          2.7gj
RURAL                                  3.1           2.87          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (7 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          17.9/g
URBAN                                  ..          54.4 g
RURAL                                   ..           4.9|          . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_ _  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_- -_-_-_-_ _-_ _- -__ _-_ _- -_- -_ _-_-_- -__ _-_- -_- -_- -_ _-_ _-_ _- -__ _      _      _      _ _   _ _      _      _      _ _   _ _ 



MNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                         PAGE 2
PAKISTAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
b  RECENT                LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCCFE
1960   1970- ESTIMATb-/    ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                    30.0         40.0         57.0                96.1                      101.2
MALE                     46.0         57.0        81.0               107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                   13.0         22.0        30.0                82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    11.0         13.0         15.0                30.2                       44.9
MALE                     18.0         20.0        22 .0               37. 3                       50.0
FEMALE                    3.0          5.0         8.0                22 .2                       44.6
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECONDARY)             1.0         1.5          1.3/h               2.3                       18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         41.0         45.0                34.4                       32.7
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0         17.0                18.4                       23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                15.4        20.7/i       24.0                53.5                       72.9
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.5         2.6          4.5/c               1.6                        9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            6.0        17.1         67.0                96.8                      113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                ..         1.6          9.7                 9.9                       50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               13.2          . .        13.7                16.4                       54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         1.7         3.0/i        2.2                 3.6                        3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           14448.0     17364.0      23375.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6          9.3         10.3                33.3                       33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               61.0         59.0         57.0                69.0                       50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         19.0        20.0                 15.8                       19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5        28.7         27.7                42.5                       38.6
MALE                                 55.2        50.4         47.2                54.4                       50.7
FEMALE                                5.7         5.5          6.0                29.8                       26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5         1.7          1.8                 1.0                        1.1
INCCIE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             20.3/1      17.8           . .               16.5                       22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           45.3]]       41.8           ..                43.5                       48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.4f.        8.0           . .                6.9                        6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             17.573      20.2           ..                17.5                       15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  . .       68.0/i      176.0               133.9                      194.5
RURAL                                  ..        47.07?      122.0               111.6                      155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  . .       34.0/i       88.0                  . .                     178.0
RURAT                                  . .       22.07i       58.0                  ..                      164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLITE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                  ..        42.0/i       32.0                43.8                       24.4
RURAL                                  ..        43.07?       29.0                51.7                       41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
In 1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; /g 1973; /h 1978; /i 1972; /j 1964.
May 1983



- 19-                                                                                       AN=P.I
Page 3
lfFlrIIOlS OF SOCIAL INDIiCATORS
describe  ondere of carorede . Inc Irare  rrnd.  med choracrerleecerrain  sajor differeces bererer coanrrie
iforeerns    onocre  l)heescncergrepocbantecconoymdiff--oors b rnny- of-e.eaasaaasaoicaohn.coofroorn
aeOn cntnosaodoo.ka.1                                                               Poenlat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l,dIihw~  .'  Ion yes  M -n Ira     -hyynaoIn d1inidjd by onbf of. -rartir lo
_1970-- cr   90dc.fylto   e                                                                                              IraIyre  - ..    yoyiaoIon. dinidad by tnber ofgrcilo
for oree. nefacen, narto  codkioshe  dnndrs or  n lie  eilod    2960,                     oneieg arcilinns
1960, 1910, cod 1901 dana.                                                           by at least one ybyainiat.  Islabliabsenla  yronidirg  yrtoripsi if t960srodi1st
0080 PPER     FOOO~       CAyIO  -noral ysaerrco,sn                ...o ofl romeisa                         meia   ere   nsyraeryaafe2yayosoa  (ha  by a. aslr
1900,  917,d nod 1997 data.-                                                                             osinar bosiasleld    Ilosyrtri1           lgeobs   boprls,sd  os
horiris  lca  o  ica   nsyfas  ndmeics)an  .a.ero ispre -see
fhfttPll901)0  r101  bOdThTIii                                                  Speialied  bapisaa  ap  Inclded   oly cder  otal
fetalONMPIO  PERolt   o-er(hnana   -doo    iyI   00   00   o   91Miaio   e   oyittd-Tslooo  of admiasidrs to ordiararl
16.17,.d 1960,d_  h90,d18   ae                                                               oratcrfinotdrsearroaeod-oa.ra.tdc
yooolclno  n c-ar 111 -  orest  yoylaoin   yrnerti 9s7or  hosde 1900                  an-hirsl   eas                 oadrorlde    yo   ayrtb    .rOoded.i
rae.   rjbitoyracsth.rohat-yaosoyra-thnaOeroIebro    frna  edochoa.   r                                                                                         IrIdsrl   noaeoaa
leslaenrogio.e..                 nyotit Icesigatreerfierofprsn   prtYi.inba,   tooaoeaierrottoa
drisIrorlri  adfel  lf   oetan     shillgi  172                                                        agt rg, ecp_nit by.  00el -nga es  oert-aotr    ere                           n
year.    heprarter   iofer IlItyrntoclao1,   _nnettrs     Ifel d.c OUSIN                           ieG   at
d      I.., acle  nfenll2  asedngs00c   lel n-ys  ftAl cothn-lstior   oecteo  dyltal--oal   rb..adroa.
pLrio    eronoe.   bsnoorln  setoac   ra   eoo  Isonr                                       Crrnnhoe  das d980        I     eos t'iih    id-otn  haerc   gteeg
se Pn.oeofsnelpad   etlt    sad   o    ret o    n5ac                                             of inral,~ _rbar  aedP"'    y-9    s ba .al log  n.sa ye-lay.I    Y b    -jdd
Itatoa        J oorLotorlhrsaldnoP oslaonthon i  oegrci
since  th    ltssf  O-qalnssAnsrts   n   as   o  ag                                           funlo
soretoressaltoeetao.   Ths Itachcoadonlyaize   fetIlIy  nose           amird stollen..        ltio
de-iosohseoecaesloee-                ntnI rtroosihrasY'o                                    yeocyahtt--            tl,caeadf.a.-r...so,sl                        ..d.el
yoortesis llll,I   -i...._ he reched-henlndar  adnei-Lltotal~, sl   t   ene    oyte   saes   eo
yncdlatnot 000dm      A                                                                             edosfa-r1 lot..  -dole   at- atfe  pe.o   yrne    rsr1isrri
feral area  196.  M9I,ro   190  dora.                -ly                                                    saelyo 1fo1-jar1fa15jcseyndor    oas   r
yrrsn.knogelsoiorotlaedCnsror        e aciec   Teran-.ole-dlasd-gearcllst-lddfd
prcp    -yoio   o  L9201-60, i 196-h0  ad Tb97P-Il.4                                              osgrhcdfng  anolf.
yersscenn   160,   lOll. ,,ad 1  daon.-  k1.-                           IO                                ... IooPTIOpN                                               .... t
tod    ese-      slerseeot       cne-          eti  e   hinodn  ndnn                                 ysags  aetssOeondrrltln      absgrb-scrna    00
p"Yane;   2960, 190   o   9- aa                                                                       ceastgln   oboe              . sihY'ar;eeee   sbnlna     ere   o
Grear tared nosIer OnoAroost9 bso   eohesamd0nl   eri                                             oil isr-   --blol  c.          1
h,.    ontrP"ooteroe   fsh    orlts    sortaoar  o                                                      ledlo     l  -noorsIathooddooatot-di   ypno  r ..s ...r foAdO
fenlIysit   sol   in-ordrOr   010  n1h,17,anhodaltocolpbi   e  tinio    of                                                                                    t....a.en  .....do....
1061., lisoodoseoroIsseestoo   in  pocr  acngirhIInt     o   rh
rairleodOcrrr               nnelthcat)dono                                                                                                                         P,e   f  sror  ocooiofr   deaersr    ersIyIotoasilsessa
1070 dcl 1)20017 tOt                   c---l1-1   -     -  1 1   --                             Pis ... yi> -d    -daIy ce-t1c dincidan  noby       o~    o  oeo  aproia
tYo-eP. reedi.  f-dtil  p95e60  19t6i015)-i0 lL -d         ldetOrr o1970tciedoer   rnant eitc8d1    dorlcrc.I  in  hende
IhPo1d 00 cool    , no 970eag p-d 1951   rrs   oIe-        01-O    90,rd10
GI'otatcleolelrpecn   o-rorntnlOnetdee                                                                    hafhrFrrtbeada-co nalpaster ..beoo-a,lnih--aee
ooerc.idchn0e   roco.N-         aop- essrldeolClfsd,  ard,                                   cepral;  91  190a110    date.                                f-       -.f    -
t-ilnisy~ an   olhcnldso   nloncoa   ansaes   oyains,faigo   ernaro   oa   lab...foss;1901  190                                                                          fn 191.dat.
Par ransa oteon of 000000 toamspr- day   - Prrsi  sonsI       o   e  sn                          17   od10   da.
Arnteeeolo   ll..tr.d              srhlanI       b    bt  relo  o  ocio                                ata I  r-- resmptd              dttoalSch,an   eml labo  fore a
alleaor  etiroco   lrd prtr,secrpodlidoefonnlen                         rrsntae   o  too.clrrdcstreoimleo  alags   sserinly
cOne A    rN   t,o   hli1   cs  ool  5nOstecro-   ho                                                        0  1070, and 1    196  data.. nsonrh d0 .Z d'a   anirytonrae
I_sor   fi-eolal  an   clr   s  rs   erdy;It-)0   1970 and 1977
doon.                                                                                             1AE00t FlhtItflt
Chil  (ags 0-) tcih  aso  505 i _eanid     dona dre eisir - r C t... ood  to                 T-ssaoofPiooIsee(ohi  so   n                               P10)-. sla   b   iho 
-ce-rrle-dar   eOe on  torbe  i 19t0,  07-2 and 10                    - data.                                               TOe-dc1h81 d.
Is'll o                                                                                      bolsoed byeilT 00027
LIe  r      h_as- l0 OeI   yte2- Aceor  oeohyrr    .gf r        -c d.tfsaeeo                      i foil- onone    llnoa  rcnsyaf sols-               sYreno        ,oOr 7Irea,ao
or  lrs; 1e0.lOf  on  tOl dte                 -hpelddho  stghoeot feirh gsencn-def                                                     .h t..soo Io ,   1
70r  f  orpr  eocar  lsehlb I5O,  OI  and 9Wd-         191  or.dtlr  oneen  itrec   tas-Id                                              hn  not  eelbl--iscli
accrohardor  Lesetcicrcatei-thr,rhc  rdrea-                                                 noiieaOcdhah   dtdiaeorthtoefodtqetOst   Oe
Nanhoc of"P1"t,        c.  ed,  n   on )rr  traeid             lase -crot f                            ffoih
Rcior.ill7t  rsrreoefhi....ti..oritos. 100.enealnoe.t....ry                                                                                  tsaleslProndfestraa
dtsesrtOosrrlaisrenotCoecc 7o of     -    fLo  et-1eat  oro I, nod                                                              I--         -    I   L
roeci-fcnhosepsorlrlotal,      'ha,c"IcloIt.. coodtyfeesceta                                          g                          "
dinyocot as yecoeoiolro  en rhoir coopesi nor peontetiono .  Oncrooc dlteseot:d' 'A
co   croesh   olroooct  ipinl   in   n  ibsiieaoo,  1tenss  o    osa  It   loae
homaeoosesoatdoror-aooc  h0niOeo-Ossrorotsm   or soccoo of  lI                               frenmis aeo yeir rd Pcejesie -c Iparosto
pelner nd cetlo  pcil-oti         ......      Y;or1 tod9o d  S7



- 21-
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOFIIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982/83 /a                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH Cl. constant prices)
US$ billion        %           1969/70-1974/75  1975/76-1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
GNP at market prices             31.45         100.0               3.5              6.8           3.8      7.3
Gross domestic investment         4.86          15.4              -5.5              4.0            9.4     9.0
Gross national saving             4.43          14.1              -2.1              6.9            5.0    20.3
Current account balance          -0.55          -1.7
Resource gap                     -3.18         -10.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83
Value Added          Labor Force Li         V. A. Per Worker
S Million    %        Million    Z              US$      %
Agriculture                      7,968     31        13.5      51              590     60
Industry /c                     6,333      24         5.4      20            1,173    120
Services                        11.566     45         7.6       29          1L522    156
Total/Average                 25,867    100        26.5      100             976    100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government /d_                           Federal Government
(Rs billion)           % of GDP                (Rs billion)         Z of GDP
1982/83 /e    1982/83  1977/78-1932/83         1982/83 ]e  1982/83  1977/78-1982/83
Current receipts                   60.1          16.3         15.8                 46.8        12.7          12.4
Current expenditures               57.7          15.7          14.1                45.0        12.2          10.6
Current surplus                     2.4           0.6           1.7                 1.8         0.5           1.8
Capital expenditures ]f            28.2           7.7          9.3                 21.5         5.8           7.4
External assistance (net)           5.7           1.5           2.8                 5.7         1.5           2.8
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1971;/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83
(Rs billion)
Money and quasi money                 28.0     33.1     41.6      5L.7     63.7     76.5     90.7    103.5    113.6      147.4
Bank credit to public sector          14.4     17.5     22.7     29.5      34.3     43.1     48.1      54.1     60.1      71.6
Bank credit to private sector         15.6     19.7     23.1     30.1      35.7     42.7     50.6      58.7     70.9      86.9
(percentages or index numbers)
Money and quasi money as % of GDP    32.2      29.5     31.5      34.6     36.7     39.0     38.3      37.0     35.1      40.1
Consumer price index (1969/70=100)  157.8    200.0    223.3   24:3.9   260.7    282.5    311.8    355.0    396.0         416.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer price index                  30.0     26.7     11.7      9.2       6.9      8.4     10.4      13.9     11.5       5.2
Bank credit to public sector                   21.2     29.4     23.8      16.6     25.6     11.6      12.5     11.1      19.1
Bank credit to private sector                  26.3     17.3     30.3      18.6     19.6     18.5      16.0     20.7      22.6
/a  Provisional.
/b  Projection for 1982/83.  Does not include unemployed labor force.
/c  Includes manufacturing, mining, construction and electricity and gas.
Ld  Consolidated revenues and expenditures of Federal and Provincial Governments (excluding Federal-Provincial
Government transfers).
|e  Revised budget data.
/f  Excluding principal repayments of loans. Capital expenditures as defined in government budget include
certain current expenditures.



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1978/79-1982/83)
1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82   1982/83                                          US$ million          X
(llS$ million)
Exports of goods, NFS                 2,107    2,955    3,461       3,052      3,474           Raw cotton                      302.3          12.4
Imports of goods, NFS                4.485    5.709    6.466    6.679          6.655           Cotton yarn                     210.7          8.6
Resource gap (deficit - -)          -2,378   -2,754   -3,005   -3,627         -3,181           Cotton cloth                    252.3          10.3
Rice                            401.9          16.4
Interest payments                      -261      -285      -357      -320       -421          All other commodities          1.277.4         52.3
Workers' remittances                  1,395    1,748    2,097       2,224      2,886             Total                       2,444.6         100.0
Other factor payments (net)             134       151       274       188        162
Net transfers                            ..        .. _---         _ _ ..         ..
Balance on current account          -1,110   -1,140        -991   -1,535        -554                     EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 1982
Direct foreign investment                ..        ..
Net MLT borrowing                                                                                                                       DS$ million
Disbursements                         813    1,134        956    1,102       1,301
Amortization                         -235      -310      -516      -492       -389          Public debt, including guaranteed           9,178.3
Sub-total                            578       824        440       610        912          Non-guaranteed private debt /e                 ..
Transactions with  MLha                 -14        78       315       358        413             Total outstanding and disbursed          9,178.3
Other items n.e.i. /b                   23S       600       546       318        331
Increase in reserves (-)                308      -362      -110       249    -1,102                  DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82 /f
Gross reserves (end year)/c             386       748    1,058        809      1,911                                                          X
Official Gold (year end;
million ounces)                       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8        1.9
Fuel and Related Materials
Petroleum imports /d                    530    1,079    1,535    1,710         1,610           Public debt, including guaranteed            10.2
Petroleum exports ,d                     61       178       126       194         77           Non-guaranteed private debt                     ..
Total                                    10.2
RATE OF EXCHiANGE                                                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 1982)(US$ million)
Through Miav 11, 1972             From May 12. 1972-Feb. 15. 1973                                                                IBRD          IDA
US$1 - Re 4.7619                          US$1 - Rs 11.00                               Outstanding and disbursed               339.7    1,051.0
Rs 1 - US$0.21                            Rs 1 - US$0.09                                Undisbursed                             111.3       563.0
Outstanding including undisbursed   451.0    1,614.0
From Feb. 16. 1973-Jan. 7. 1982    From July 1981-June 1982 /R              From July 1982-June 1983 a4
US$ 1 - Re 9.90                          US$1 - Res 1C.55                  US$1 - Res 12.75
Re   1 - US$0.10                         Rs 1 - US$0.095                   Rs 1 - US$0.078
/a  Including Trust Fund.
'Lb Including net short-term borroving and errors and omissions.
/c Excluding gold reserves of sbout 1.8 million troy ounces.
/ Crude and derivatives.
/e Non-guaranteed private debt service is negligible.
/f  Ratio of actual debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and vorkers' remittances; debt service does not include
short-term or I"P charges.
/g  Effective January 8, 1982, the rupee is being managed with reference to a weighted basket of currencies.  The average
exchange rate shown is vis-a-vis IIS$ for the period shown.
April 1984
t



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984) /a
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                      (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal                                                                    Undis-
Number      Year    Purpose                                 Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Ninety-three loans and credits fully disbursed /b    781.4  32.0    936.1/f
620        1976   Seed Project                              --              23.0    4.4
630        1976   Second Lahore Water Supply                --              26.6    1.4
648        1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Rhairpur)          --              14.0    5.1
1366T      1977   Punjab Livestock Development:            --    10.0       --       4.4
678        1977   Third Education                           --              15.0    3.8
751        1977   Hill Farming Tech. Development           --                3.0    0.6
754        1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation            --              70.0   67.9
755        1978   Hazara Forestry                          --                1.7    1.0
813        1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --               12.5    5.7
877        1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                   60.0   55.5
892        1979   Primary Education                        --               10.0    5.1
922        1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --                9.0    6.8
968        1980   Third WAPDA Power                                         45.0   12.9
974        1980   Third Highway                            --               50.0   28.8
1019       1980   PICIC Industrial Development             --               40.0    6.0
1109/e    1981   Vocational Trainins                       --               25.0   19.3
1113/e    1981   Small Industries                          --               30.0   10.5
1157/e    1981   Grain Storage                              -               32.0   24.9
1158/e    1981   Agricultural Research                      --              24.0   16.8
1163/e    1981   On-Farm Water Management                  --               41.0   23.4
1186/e    1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)          --               30.0   16.1
2122       1982   Fourth Telecommunication                 40.0             --      29.2
2172       1982   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation   38.5                 --      32.9
2247/c    1983   Reservoir Maintenance Facilities          10.2             --      10.0
2305|c    1983   Agricultural Dev. (ADBP V)                 10.0            --      10.0
2324Lc    1983   Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pipelines          43.0             --      43.0
1239/e    1982   Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    --                    40.0   34.0
1243/e    1982   Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.                            14.0   12.6
1256/e    1982   Technical Assistance                      --                7.0    5.6
1278Lc    1982   Eleventh Railway Project                  --               50.0   46.9
1348/c    1983   Lahore Urban Development                  --               16.0   16.0
1350Lc    1983   Population                                --               18.0   17.2
1355/c    1983   Coal Engineering                          --                7.0    7.0
1374/c    1983   Karachi Water Supply                                       25.0   25.0
1375/c    1983   Fourth Drainage                            --              65.0   63.9
1380|c    1983   Agricultural Development (ADBP V)    --                    47.8   39.9
2218       1983   Refinery Engineering Project              12.0            --      10.2
2351/c    1984   Petroleum Exploration                     51.5             --      51.5
2374/c    1984   Second Toot Oil and Gas Development:  30.0                 --      30.0
2380/c    1984   Industrial Investment Credit              50.0             --      50.0
1439/c    1984   Industrial Investment Credit              --               50.0   50.0
Total                                                   1,066.6  42.0  1,919.0  905.3
of which has been repaid                                490.7   0.5       32.1
Total now outstanding                                      575.9  41.5  1,886.9
Amount sold                    23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                         -- --            --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDALd                          575.9  41.5  1.886.9
Total undisbursed                                          266.8   4.4    634.1  905.3
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for projects
in the former East Pakistan which have now beer taken over by Bangladesh.
/c  Not yet effective.
/d  Prior to exchange adjustment.
/e  IDA Credits under the 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  The principal
is shown in US$ equivalent at the time of negotiation. Disbursed amounts are
computed at the market rate on dates of disbursements.
[f  By using the market rate on dates of disbursements, the current principal
for Credit 1066-PAK and Credit 1255-PAR (both iully disbursed) is
$42.5 and $77.5, respectively.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31. 1984)
Fiscal                                                Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor                Type of Business       Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel
Pakistan Ltd.          Products              0.63      --        0.63
1959     Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles               0.75      --        0.75
1962-    Gharibwal Cement
1965     Industries Ltd.        Cement                 5.25    0.42        5.67
1963-    PICIC                  Development
1969-                           Financing               --      0.52       0.52
1975
1965     Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles               1.84    0.11        1.95
1965-
1980-    Packages Ltd.          P?aper Products       19.38    0.84       20.22
1982
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.              Paper                  5.38    2.02        7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers            1.00    2.92        3.92
1969     Karnaphuli Paper
Mills Ltd.            Pulp and Paper         5.60    0.63        6.23
1979     Milkpak Ltd.           Food and Food
Processing            2.40    0.37        2.77
1979     Pakistan Oilfields
Ltd. and Attock       Chemicals and
Refinery Ltd.         P'etrochemicals       29.00    2.04       31.04
1980     Fauji Foundation       Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78      --        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Ltd.            E'article Board        2.70      --        2.70
1981     Habib Arkady           F'ood and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17        3.32
1982     Asbestos               Cement                 4.25      --       4.25
1983     Pakistan Petroleum   Chemical and
Ltd.                  Petrochemicals        87.71    1.56       89.27
Total Gross Commitments                    170.82   11.60    182.42
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               126.30    1.02    127.32
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC           44.52   10.58       55.10
Undisbursed (including participants)        86.74    0.34       87.08



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Six months.
(b) Agency which has prepared project:
Ministry of Planning and 'Development.
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA and first
IDA mission to consider the project:
August 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
February 22, ]L984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 20, 1984
(f) Planned date of effsectiveness:
September 30, 1984.
Section II:      Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Special Conditions
None.



- 25 -
ANNEX IV
Page I of 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procedures for Project Coordination,
Implementation and Supervision
1.      All sub-components such as studies, training, consultants and equip-
ment would be approved by the Banak. Where details, with respect to a
specific activity, were not yet available, the Association would agree in
principle to the sub-component based on a preliminary description subject to
later approval of detailed terms of reference, scope of work, implementation
schedule, cost estimates, consulitant selection and contract. Where such an
agreement in principle had been given, the activity can be categorized as
"identified" and a preliminary cost estimate attached to the activity.
2.      Detailed informationi on sub-components would be presented as far as
is feasible in a standardized for-mat.
3.      When the detailed sub-component information is received it would be
reviewed and ultimately cleared by the Association. Depending on the size
and complexity of the sub-component, this would be done by the Division
directly responsible for supervision (the Bank's Resident Mission in
Pakistan, RMP) or in consultation with the relevant division/department at
headquarters responsible for the sector in question. Detailed information
for sub-components do not normally arrive concurrently, thus record of the
various approvals given, e.g. terms of reference, invitation to bid, consult-
ant evaluation/selection ancd cont:ract, should be kept on RMPs project file.
When an invitation to bid with terms of reference and evaluation criteria
have been approved, the sub--component would be categorized as "approved" and
the timetable for implementation would be put on the project file. This
timetable would be updated monthly.
4.      Once consultant selection has been approved, the draft contract as
negotiated would be approved by the Bank. Large studies with complex con-
tracts would be reviewed by the Bank's legal department. Where standard
contracts (previously reviewed by the Bank) are being used, a post signing
review by the RMP of the contract terms, specific to the sub-component, e.g.
scope of work, costs, and terms of payment and timetable would be made.
5.      Once the contract is signed the sub-component would be categorized
as "committed". The revised. cost estimate and a disbursement schedule based
on the contract would be entered on the file at this stage. Two copies of
the signed contract would be forwarded to the Bank (copy for SA files and one
for controllers). A copy would also be sent to the relevant division at HQ
where appropriate.



- 26 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
6.      In order to expedite the recruitment and retention of foreign con-
sultants the TA Project Cell (TAPC) would consider the possibility of using
the services of the United Nations Office for Project Execution (OPE). OPE
would identify suitable consultants and retain such consultants (under terms
of reference and conditions prepared by the TAPC) on behalf of the Government
of Pakistan. OPE would then be reimbursed for such services directly by IDA
out of the proceeds of the Credit upon submission of a withdrawal application
from TAPC.
7.      Withdrawal applications would be numbered consecutively for the
credit as a whole regardless of the sub-component in question. These would
be checked against the contract or sub-comaponent to which the application
refers and, if satisfactory, would be forwarded to the Controllers Division
at HQ. The amount of the withdrawal application would be recorded in the
sub-component file under a heading of "sulmitted".  When notification of the
payment has been received (monthly statements from Controllers) this would be
recorded as "disbursed". WithdrawaL applicaticns would be packaged in
amounts not less than $20,000 equivalent. In order to overcome any problems
associated with such packaging of withdrawal applications, a special account
(revolving fund) would be set up wilth a bank in Pakistan. This account would
also expedite payments for foreign and rupee expenditures under the TA
projects.
8.      Progress reports, preliminary reports and final reports for all
committed sub-components would be sent to the Bank (RMP) by the TA Cell
(Plancom) on a regular basis. Copies would also be forwarded to the respon-
sible division at HQ where appropriate. Sub-components in which the Bank has
a special interest would be clearly identified with the TA Cell and the
Bank's comments on progress reports and preliminary reports would be con-
sidered and reflected in the final report.
9.      Progress reports on the overall status of the TA program would be
submitted quarterly in a format to be agreed between the Bank and Plancom.
This is in addition to the progress reports on specific sub-components
prepared by consultants or executing agencies which would be sent to the Bank
as soon as they are available. Full supervision reports (Form 590) would be
prepared for the project every six months by the responsible division (RMP)
and given the full normal circulation for such reports. The project comple-
tion report would be prepared by the RMP in collaboration with the TA Cell.



- 27 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
PROCEDURES
STAGE                 DOCUMENTATION                 ACTION                 REF
IDENTIFICATION  Preliminary description,  Executing Agency (EA)  TA project
cost estimate, executing  TA Cell submits to        documents PR
agency and proposed        RMP which review. If   and DCA
selection/procurement      necessary consults
procedures.,               with relevant HQ
division and approves
in principle.
APPROVAL         Bidding Procedures -        EA/TA Cell submits to  Guidelines for
letter of invitation,      RMP which reviews. If  selection of
terms of reference,        necessary consults       consultants
cost estimates, time-      with relevant HQ         and Procure-
table and selection/       division and clears.   ment Guide-
evaluation criteria.                                lines
Single Source - terms of
reference, cost estimates,
timetable, draft contract
and justification for
single source selection.
COMMITMENT       Bidding Procedures -        EA/TA Cell submits
Evaluation report, draft  to RMP which reviews.
negotiated contract, and  If necessary consults
timetable.                 with responsible HQ
Single Source-draft        division incl. legal
negotiated contract         and cleared. TA signs
and timetable.              contract.  Two single
copies of contract
submitted to RMP who
forwards one signed
copy to Controllers,
one signed copy to
South Asia files, and
a copy to responsi-
bile HQ division.



- 28 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
IMPLEMENTATION  Sub-Components -             ETA/TAC forwards
Progress reports,          reports to RMP which
interim reports and        arranges for appro-
final reports.             priate Bank review.
For all components in
which Bank has a
special interest.
Bank's comments and
recommendations must
be ref'lected in
final report.
TA Project - Quarterly    TAC submit quarterly
reports.                   progress reports in
format agreed between
Bank and TAC.
DISBURSEMENT    Withdrawal applications   EA completes WA. Sub-  Standard
numbered consecutively    mits to TAC for           guidelines for
for appropriate credit.   approval and signa-    preparing
Packaged in amount not    ture. TAC submits to   Withdrawal
less than $20,000          RMP which reviews for  Applications
equivalent.                eligibility & forward
direct: to controllers
with covering memo giv-
ing title of component,
WA No and amount. Copy
of covering memo only
to reLevant HQ division
and other (Pakistan
Division and other re-
sponsible division).



- 29 -
ANNEX V
Page I of 1
Technical Assistance Credit
Cost Estimates i
(U5$1000)
1             2                  3                  4                     5                  6                7
Equipment                                                    Price
Component                    Studies      Specialist             and          Training and               Base          Contingencies          Total
it/          V/              Vehicles         Fellowships (No.)          Costs               4/              Costs 5/
;----
Computerization                                    90.0               1,960.0              50.0                2,100.0             -                2,100.0
Flow of Funds Analysis                             40.0                                                            40.0            -                    40.0
Anriculture and Water
Agricultural Prices Commisaion                    100.0                 150.0              60.0 (7)               310.0           40.0                 350.0
Irrigation Investment Study          200.0                                                                       200.0             -                  200.0
Sectoral Adjustment Program          200.0                                                                       200.0             -                  200.0
Industry
Experts Advisory Cell                             210.0                  55.0              100.0 (10)            365.0            35.0                400.0
Incentive Reform Program                           60.0                 178.0                                    238.0            13.0                251.0
Steel Sector Study                   300.0                                                                       300.0             -                  300.0
Sectoral Adjustment Program          300.0                                                                       300.0             -                  300.0
Energy
Energy Efficiency Study              200.0                                                                       200.0             -                   200.0
Gas Peak Shaving Study               300.0                                                                       300.0             -                  300.0
Sectoral Adjustment Program          220.0                                                                       220.0             -                   220.0
Social Sectors
Health Sector Studies                120.0        145.0                                                          265.0             9.0                 274.0
Education Sector Studies             150.0        100.0                  70.0               80.0 (8)             400.0            25.0                 425.0
Other
Pre-Investment Studies             1,400.0                                                                     1,400.0                              1,400.0
TA Evaluation Program                              38.0                                                           38.0             2.0                  40.0
Counterpart Staff and
Support Services                    -             -                     -                  -                 1,500.0              -               1,500.0
Ease Costs                           3,390.0        783.0               2,413.0              290.0               8,376.0                              8,376 0
Price Contingencies                     -             37.0                 78.0                9.0                                  124.0                 124.0
Total Costs                          3,390.0         820.0              2,491.0              299.0                8,376.0            124.0              8,500.0
1/  Costs are based on 1984 prices.
/  Contingencies provided for in estimated cost of fixed price contracted studies, counterpart staff and support services.
2/ Includes travel and per diem.
4   Price contingencies:  3.5S for 1984, 8.0% for 1983 and 9.0S for 1986 and tbereafter.
51  Including taxes vhich are negligible.



I



IBRD 16248R
64                                        61-                                     72°        U  S S R                   MAY 1983
j  -. HCHINA
PAKISTAN
-36 '/.                                                                                                                                                   36:°_
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                              t I
°   CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL  ROADS                                                                     /
PRIMARY  AND  SECONDARY  ROADS
RAILWAYS -
*      AlIRPORTS                                                              Ch        od            Age,on,m,ta h,e o/ Cor/h
PROVINCIAL  BOUNDARIES                                                   hs_ g e e
INTERNATIONAL  BOUNDARIES                            .         ShhShO. / ro           AMA/   D
RIVERS
#)     <         ~~~~Kh sh      obb-/ ~
32                                                                                                                            d                            32'-
*          AFGHANISTAN                                                                       P    A3
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
9  (S  ~                                 /          I NDIA
28'                  (                                                           Joc beb                                                                   28'-
ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF i-.
I RAN             .10                                                                                                100      200        300      100
I RAN   t                                 i~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~ /<i Ndl     D                           KILOMAETERS'
(  R Belo     90&Nowobshh0                                      50     100      150     200     250
_ .                     J - ' ~----~   i                   nnn)Prr         Hdenobod                                      T      han bee prepaed by
Buleji Pt.0> Ko,c,                                                     readers and s en nves,e tor the
e,a bTot od >          3                  a dThe;nr ter-ake ot e if anf
)             and~~~~~~ the   hentrheaFmne
S                                                                              K  )   X   t      B o d i n           _ :                C o r e r onent  t h e  d e nhtnrh a hi n S
-sd-ad the hh-d-he            24hWf
-24'h the -a, de net-pley en the
N24  tX                           ' e 7_.   pert h; The Word Ba-k and the
v            jc-                               - 1      'XIrtenraihnel Frencho Cerphrlahner
any ydg-reht Dn the legal Ita.,I
hi ay tnrrdery hr any
sech hendac872
5,4hO'                                            t                                72?                                         = 



I
I



