Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 716O
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 850-EGT)
March 14, 1988
Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
|their official duties. Its contents may aot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonization.



ABBREVIATIONS
EFPA                Egyptian Family Planning Association
FP                  Family Planning
IEC                 Information, Education and Communication
ILO                 International Labour Organisation
IPPF                International Planned Parenthood Federation
MCH Center          Maternal and Child Health Center
MOIC                Ministry of Information and Culture
MPTC                Multipurpose Training Center
ODA                 Overseas Development Administration (UK)
(was Overseas Development Ministry--ODM)
PPF                 Project Preparation Facility
RHU                 Rural Health Unit
UNICEF              UN International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID               US Agency for International Development
IUD                 Intra-Uterine Device



10 OmcILf US OWL!
THE WORtLD BANKK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Opsiaaimw IvAhatwan
March 14, 1988
NEMORANDUiI TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TIE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Arab Republic of Egypt
Second Population Proiect (Credit 850-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of the report entitled
'Project Completion Reports Arab Republic of Egypt, Second Population
Project (Credit 850-EGT)l prepared  by  the  EHENA  Region based on a
report by a consultant. No further evaluation of this project by the
Operations Evaluation Department has been made.
Attachment                                              I i
This document has a restricted distribution &W. may be used by r-ipents only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclosed without Wold ank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
m    OuOLIM     PbIJUC  -  GMI   804
TAQ X a OWE
ACRONYMS                                                                  Page
PREFACE- .                   ....ee....-              .e. i
BASIC DATI SHEET ....................... ............
EVALUATON SUcNAY  .                .....................  1-
I.    Introduction                                                           1
II.   The Project ...... ........................... .       ............  2
A. Project Origin ..................................... '.....e.*.e 2
B. Project Preparation                                                3
C. Project Appraisal                                                  4
D. Project Ji4proval                                                  4
E. Project Objectives and Risks 5...5
P. Project Description ........... ........................ .         6
III.  Project Implementation and Cost ...................................    8
A. Effectiveness and Start-Up ..a....................          .....  8
B. Revisions ...............          .........        ........... 9
C. Implementation Schedule ...................................  10
D. Reporting ....,. *....*..*  .. .     e....  ......006   ee   11
B. Procurement                                                       11
F. Costs                                                             12
G. Disbursements and Financing Plan ....... .......000900.... 12
H. Perfozuance of Consultants, Contraztors and Borrower              13
IV.   Project Performance and Impact ................................. 13
A. Information. Education and Communication (INC) e*............6o 13
B. Home Visiting Program ......15
C. MCH/PP Training .............     ...... ................... 16
D. Intensification of Health Delivery ............................ 18
E. Research and Evaluation ......18
P. Support to the Egyptian Family Planning Association ........... 19
G. Innovative Activities .....20
R. Project Impact on Fertility Reduction and Maternal and
Child Health                                                     20



V.    Itstitutional Performance and Development a                          22
A. Commitment to Family Planning ..........    ................... .... 22
B. Management and Organizational Effectiveness ....      ............... 23
C. Staff Recruitment. Training and Development        ................... 24
D. Institutional Responsibility for Family Planning       .............. 24
VI.  Bank Performance    .........................,........... .* 25
A. Project Justification and Objectives:
Bank's and Borrower's .........*..  ..........*....*. .......... 25
B. Project Content and Scheduling ...........o.....................  26
C. Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes ..................  26
VII.  Conclusions                         .........                        29
Tables
1. Home Visitors Employed for the Outreach Program   .................... 32
2. Actual and Agreed Production of IEC Materials .......       ..      .* 33
3. Sum-ary of Appraised and Actual Project Costs .....      ................. 34
4. Appraised and Actual Schedule of Disbursements ....**         ... ..*  35
Comments from the Borrower ................    .......... ............. 37
Map: IBRD 13539R1



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT--CREDIT 850-EGT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Egypt Second
Population Project (Credit 850-EGT).    The project was implemented through
the Ministry of Health, and received cofinancing from the Overseas
Development Agency (ODA).
The credit amount for the entire project was US$25.0 million, as
approved by the Board on  October  5,  1978.   Disbursements for the entire
project were US$17.0 million; US$8.0 million was cancelled. The final
disbursement of the credit took place on September 30, 1986.
This PCR was prepared by the Population, Health and Nutrition
Department with information available in files, interviews with various
Bank staff and consultants, and a consultant's report.
Following a review of the  PCR by  OED staff, the project was not
selected for audit and the PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments on
October 7, 1987; comments received have been attached to the PCR as an
annex.



- ii -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SIX  INEwAMi  CJMILT N-W
N-1
SAM1  DMT 
NW 1a1Um DMT
Appra as               Actual or Cutmet
item                                   Estimate                    Estimato
Total Project Cost (Us$ Mull)                         60.3                          34.5
. Underrun (S)                                                               43
Credit hAount (US$ Mill)                              25.0                          25.0
.Disbursed                                                                   17.0
.Cancelled                                                                    8.0
Date of Project Completion                          12/31/1982               03/31/1986
Proporti§a Of Time Ovorrun (S)                                                     80S
Actual or
Item                OiAinal Plan DvisonJ                             Ftimatod Actual
First Mention in Filem                                                      NoveLAer 1975
Negotiations                                                                July 31, 1978
Board Appraval                                                              October 5. 1978
Credit Agreemnt Date                                                        October 30. 1978
Effect'venas Date                                                           Kay 1. 1979
Closing Date                December 31. 1983       December 31. 1984       March 31. 1986
December 31. 1985
March 31. 1986
Borrower                                                                    Arab Republic of Egypt
Executing Agency                                                            Ministry of Health
Fiscal Yar of the Borrower                                                  January 1 - December 31
follow On Project Name
CONLEAlVU DI
By End of Fiscal Year          1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Appraisal Estimate             1.3     5.5      13.6    21.1    25.0      -        -       -
Actual                         0.1     0.1      8.1     11.9    13.3    15.0    15.6    17.0
Actual as S of Estimate        7.7      1.8     59.6    56.4    53.2    60.0    62.4    68.0
Date of Final Disbursoments  September 30. 1986



- lli -
BASIC DATA SHEET (cont'd)
Intaval Sbdf alBoth
FrV%k mtidm     ?bith/  Day   * of  Staff  'A    I   P&Nmt ad
1Ivp of tEisim     Mtaiuuw kv-Voviima  Tar            Staff  Dep   HJUIoma   Phvim
Ob)w)      i
L  Paosm S          pIRnIAI               7/76       17     3     51
2.Idatfm  EH                              9176       3      1      3       2          1
3. Prqmatm          WR/AE                  W76       15     2     30       3          1
4. P=p iPtim        FI/AI                 5/77       6      2     12      5           1
5.  tqmutimn        RIWAD                  1D177     22     2     44       5           1
6. PLtpuZtG         POP/RMA[              lm        22     3     66       1          1
7.    _mi           PWM/Wh V'l2M/    2/78            28     6    166      3           2
8. 1-ftwaiui  pibC                         n78   14   3   42   2                       1
91ab'l                                     127    22    416
Ixterwa  Staff an Both
a~er$uiixa   3bh       Dqp     I of          Bsaff  3Pgaam ard
Tyvp of Nfsonc    Iead- Cappsitiaa    /rawr               staff  Down  mIsei       hsov~iu    $tm tw   md
*                                             GbJ)   1fauza    ~
1.  9ewmi4           I/h1AWW/     2P=     2/79      18      6    1GB      10          1       2      1
2. aVd sin          EmVwdNH                117       13     3     39      9           3        2     1
3.   ais           nXE          1V79                 4      1      4       1          -        2     1
4. eSvwsion         8MRAWWWANPH           6/80       11     5     55      5                   3      2
5. Spetvjii         UWE NWE                3/81      13     4     52       9          3        3     2
6. &"mbda           AVEIE=                 6/81      13     4     52       4          1        2     1
7. Servisica        AWA=t                  IV281     14     3     42       6          2        2     2
8. a        ezisimi  hE/EM                7/82       14     3     42       7          3        2     2
9. a.ris             EIWXEJNWJM/X    2V83            20     5    100       7          2       3      2
10. 8Ea viskn        AE /1U                10/83     15     3     45      8           3       3      2
11. evis            EMAMw                 5/84      11      3     33      7           3       3      2
12. ferivision      UXRUXE                 1/84     12      2     24      6           2       3      2
13.    aEvik        w n                   3/85       14     2     28      4           1       3      2
14. fterviio       BMIUWI/E               11/85     17      3     51      8           2
SA.Ltal                    189    47    675
*   Abruiaw  Ec  = Bonmuda: ARC = Aditect;   InC = T4fam. Mcatim &  ..m4catG4ce
cmicaStin EPO = PbpWation %xlalistN - TM  Tzdi gSeciaUst; NG = N_agmt   ;eo±.1dst:
DC = Dviein Qhief; P6E = Flmmi  & baluatim Spaimist; PR = PcbU*  tl1h  ; 5da1imt;
0*  Stauu  1 = Pzo1a ftse or f=  r  prsiw             TzvxI  1  = qwov%
2=       t prda                                  2 = StatkrAy
3 = Major prle                                   3 Deteri=zath



- iv -
BASIC DATA SHEET (cont'd)
cmn= NCuGu RATES
Name of Currency:                        Egyptian Pound (LE)
Year                                 Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average                         US$1= LE 0.70
Intervening Years Average                      US$1= LE 1.10
Completion Year Average                        US$l= LE 1.50
ND SF  V s
Staffweeks
Preparation Time:                           200.0
Supervision Time:              FY79          52.6
FY80         58.5
FY81         54.8
FY82         42.7
FY83         25.4
FY84         27.1
FY85         17.3
FY86         18.4
Supervision/Completion:        FY86-87       25.4
TOTAL APPLIED STAFPWEERS                    522.2
m    ftWuCr  DATA
Borrower:                      Government of Egypt
Executing Agency:              Ministry of Health
Follow-on Project:             None



ARAB REPtUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT - CREDIT 85f% -XGT
PRDJECT OONPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SU1SIAK
i.        TiM Projact.  The Egypt Second Population Project was approved in
October 1978, and was a follow-up to the First Project approved in 1973.
Total Project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$60.3 million
equivalent, including contingencies.  Financial provisions were a US$25.0
million IDA Credit, a grant from Great Britain's ODA for US$8.0 million
equivalent, and a Government contribution of US-1$.3 million equivalent.
Actual project cost was estimated at US$34.6 million equivalent, or about
57Z of the appraised cost estimate.   The cost underrun is due to only
partial  implementation of the project.   In March 1986. the Credit's
undisbursed balance of US$8.0 million, or 322 of the Credit. was cancelled.
ODA's funding was also only partially iztilized, with ODA cancelling US$3.1
million equivalent. or 382 of their grant. in 1984.   The Project was
implemented over a seven year period, and had two extension of the Credit
Closing Date.
ii.       Impleusutation.   IDA's cancellation of Credit 850-EGT was
regrettable, but reasonable due to the limited progress achieved in its 7
years  of  implementation.   The  project  wys  rated throughout  its
implementation as a problem project, or as having moderate problems. without
much probability for improvement. Undeniably, the Second Population Project
operated in an exceedingly difficult environment, in view of the limited
priority that the Borrower placed first. on the overall goal of fertility
reduction and, second. on family planning as a central means of achieving
that goal.
iii.      The project suffered difficult managerial problems. and received
very low MOR and physician commitment to family planning within the health
service delivery program. IDA acknowledged from the start that the uneven
rature of MOH commitment to family planning was a major risk, but justified
because of the eminent neture of Egypt's population growth problem.  At
appraisal, IDA anticipated the possibility of poor results given low
commitment and the lack of imrlementation capacity necessary for adequate
project performance.
iv.       Project Outco e.  Despite the dissappointing project performance
compared with appraisal estimates, it does appear that both the extent of
GOE awareness of family planning needs, and MON capacity to meet those
needs, were somewhat enhanced through the project.   The project did
contribute to the expansion of health services through the construction and
staffing of health units and through its outreach program, including home
visiting and IEC activities.



-vi -
v.        Gi-en present demographic trends, Egypt's population is estimated
to double to 98 million by the year 2010. This increase signifies a major
obstacle to any projected economic development in the foreseeable future.
It is unfortunate that before a third project could be develop ed and
approved. Egypt lost eligibility for further IDA borrowing, and GOE is not
interested in borrowing for population on IBRD terms.  Given the criticel
importance of family planning to the entire Egyptian development effort, the
termination of this credit should not foreclose World Bank dialogue in
Egypt's population sector. stressing the importance the Bank attributes to
population growth in development. The Bank should explore ways of helping
Egypt reduce its population growth that include but are not limited to the
MOH and. in particular. that include private agencies and local welfare
groups.
vi.       Operational Lessoos Learned.  A number of important lessons were
learned from this project.   The main lesson concerns IDA's leverage to
generate Borrower compliance with the project's goals and objectives. and
commitment to project implemenration. versus the need to constantly build
such commitment.  In retrospect, it appears that IDA relied too heavily on
assurances and commitment from high-level GOE officials. while the local
implementation level suffered from a lack of it.   Planners of future
population projects should give careful attention to strengthening and
maintaining a commitment to family planning on the part of officials below
the top echelons of the implementing agency. and officials at the local
level as well. In the absence of such commitment. there are clear limits to
what can be accomplished with even the most careful and competent
supervision.
vii.      Other common lessons of this project are: the importance of
starting with a small but solid base, rather than a more ambitious project
in content and geographical scope; the need to involve representatives from
the implementing agencies in the initial planning and design stages; the
need not to be overly optimistic. but st,ong;y realistic in assessing a
ministry of health's implementation capacity. especially over the long run
considering changes in staff; and, lastly, the need for the Bank to
recognize that assigning high supervision to a complex project, for which
there is no commitment. will not guarantee achievement of its unrealistic
objectives and targets defined at appraisal.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
-nae POPMATION PRDWCT- C-  DIT 850-US?
mrjic COMLfOh IM PORT
I. IkDCTICI
1.01      The Bank's participatioa in the population sector in Egypt dates
from 1971. with the preparation of a Sector Review of Egypt's National
Family Planning Program. Tne first IDA Credit of US$5 million was approved
in October 1973. and closed in 1980, to help finance a project to strengthen
the family planning component of Egypt's new integrated health system. The
dialogue initiated by this project between the Bank and policy-makers in
health and population led to the second project, which was designed to
address more directly and oh a significantly larger scale the problems of
implementing an effective family planning program.
1.02      Following an identification mission in November 1975. project
preparation began in July 1976 and the project was appraised in February
1978. Negotiations took place in July 1978 and the Board approved Credit
850-EGT on October 5. 1978. The Credit Agreement was signed on November 30.
1978.
1.03      Total project cost was estimated at US$60.3m equivalent. including
contingencies. over five years. with 34.62 in foreign exchange. The project
was financed on a parallel basis through an IDA credit of US$25 million
equivalent and a grant from Great Britain's Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) for US$8 million equivalent. The IDA credit was
expected to cover all the foreign exchange cost of the project and 312 of
local costs. The GOB contribution was to be US$27.3 million equivalent.
1.04      The credit became effective on May 1, 1979 and closed on March 31,
1986, after two extensions of the original credit closing date of December
31. 1983. At project completion. US$16.99 million of the credit had been
disbursed, with the remaining undisbursed balance of US$8.0 million being
cancelled. ODA withdrew its grant aid on December 1983. with approximately
382 of its allocation undisbursed. Actual project cost was estimated at
US$34.6 million equi-alent, or 572 of the appraised cast estimate.
1.05      The main project goals were to contribute to the reduction of
fertility and of maternal and child morbidity and mortality in seven of
Egypt's twenty-five governorates. These objectives were to be met by
improving both the demand and supply of services.
1.06      The project's long-term goal of reducing fertility depended
heavily on institutionalizing effective family planning services. Although
some progress was achieved in the areas of management, information
monitoring, project-specific training, production of IEC materials, and
construction of health facilities, there was a shortfall in the critical
service delivery activities.



-2-
1.07      Negative conclusions should be tempered by recognition that the
institution-building effort. of which Population Projects I and II are a
part. requires far more time than originally contemplated. The history of
Credit 850-EGT emphasizes the difficulties and extended period needed to
institutiona1.ize an effective family planning (FP) service delivery system.
Like Population Project I. this project must be viewed as part of the
continuing processes of commitment building, motivation reinforcement, and
technical expertise required to put a functioning system in place.
II. RR PRJBCT
A. Project Origin
2.01      At the time of project preparation. population growth was a major
problem in Egypt. Egypt then had a population of about 38 million. with one
of the highest density of any major populated area of about 1.000 persons
per square kilometers of arable land. and a population growth rate of about
2.32 per year.
2.02      Since the early 1950's official and private agencies in Egypt had
:-een encouraging family planning. but with little or no demographic impact.
Continuing pressure on cultivable land. the attendant exodus from rural to
urban areas. persistent high levels of unemployment. and inability of
housing and primary school capacity to keep pace with population growth led
the GOE, in 1965. to establish a national family planning program. In 1969.
the government set a goal of trying to reduce the crude birth rate (CBR) by
one point per 1.000 per year. However, after declining steadily from 1963
to 1972. due to a reduction of the proportion of women of childbearing age
in the population. Egypt's CBR rose from 34.4 per thousand in 1972. to 37.7
per thousand in 1976. This upward trend prompted renewed GOE desire to
strengthen the country's family planning program, and intensified debate
over alternative approaches.
2.03      From the early 1970's. the Bank was eager to assist Egypt's family
planning program.  In 1972. the Bank prepared the first Egypt Population
Sector Review and. in 1976. designated Egypt as a country of special
interest in population matters.
2.04      The Bank's first population project in Egypt was IDA Credit
437-EGT for US$5 million equivalent. approved in 1973. and closed in 1980.
Through building and equipping health centers and clinics, studies of
acceptor characteristics. and a pilot home visiting program. the project was
expected to strengthen the family planning element of the newly integrated
Egyptian health system.  The project had to be scaled down due to delays and
cost-overruns, but did achieve IDA's underlying objective of establishing a
dialogue with Egyptian officials that could subsequently lead to a more
meaningful follow-up project.
2.05      The Second Population Project was prepared while the first was
still underway. In light of experience accumulating from Credit 437-EGT.



-3-
IDA urged greater emphasis on family planning activities within the total
health package. and less on civil works. However. MOH acquiescence in this
aspect of project design was far from constituting a resolution of the on-
going debate over population strategy.
2.06      The "development approach," espoused by Egypt's Population and
Family Planning Board (PFPB). defined population growth as the product of
inequality and low socio-econtmic development.  and maintained that family
planning services would not be effective unless accompanied by higher living
standards, better education. and wider opportunities for women. Proponents
of the "health approach," including MOH. argued that health services should
first be well established and accepted in order to gain the confidence of
the public. and allay suspicions of many religious leaders. before intensive
family planning work could be undertaken successfully.
2.07      Still other leading Egyptian officials concurred with IDA's view
that regardless of whether development or health objectives were paramount.
rapid increases in contraceptive prevalence and increased demand creation
activities were both necessarv and feasible - first, to fulfill ezisting
unmet demand and. second. to stimulate additional demand.
2.08      The origin. preparation. and implementation of the second
population project took place in the contezt of this philosophical debate
within Egypt's family planning community.
B. Project Preparation
2.09      Discussions regarding a possible second population project were
initiated in Oct 1975. Responsibility for project preparation rested with
the MOR. but IDA had substantial involvement in the process. The pace of
preparation picked up significantly after the appointment in November 1976.
of a new Mirister of Health strongly committed to strengthening Egypt's
family planning program.
2.10      Initial discussions between IDA and NOR contemplated the creation
of "a comprehensive integrated Maternal Child Health/Family Planning program
in two or three selected Governorates." However, by the time the project
was appraised in February 1978, project scope had been ezpanded to include
seven governorates, and the following components: (a) Information, Education
and Communication; (b) Home Visiting; (c) MCH/FP Training; (d) Health
Facilities; (ej Research and Evaluation; (f) Support to the Egyptian Family
Planning Association (EFPA); and (g) Innovative Activities. In other words,
the project as finally appraised by IDA was significantly larger in
geographical scope, and included far more outreach activities, than the one
originally proposed by MOH. The appraised project design also reflected
efforts to combine IDA's primary emphasis on population with MOH's primary
concern for health objectives. It appears that the overall project was
scaled up during the appraisal process, possibly due to IDA insistence on
the importance on software and home visiting activities. In fact, some GOB
officials felt that Credit 850-EGT was an IDA project rather than an
Egyptian one.



-4-
2.11      The key issues raised by IDA concerning both project content and
management were determined largely by the emerging lessons of Population
Project One. IDA staff repeatedly urged MOH to raise the priority of family
planning services within its integrated MCH/FP service package; to stimulate
demand for family planning through outreach home visiting and IEC
activities. in addition to increasing the supply of services; to
substantially increase training programs in family planning and. in general.
to go beyond the traditional health approach. Procedural issues included
the need to involve all relevant ministries in project preparation and
implementation; to strengthen the organizational base fcr family planning
within KOH; and to strengthen the role of governorate-level personnel in MOH
family planning activities.
2.12      Although many of these issues appeared to be on their way toward
resolution during preparation (for reasons described in para. 5.03). IDA
continued to express reservations regarding the Borrower's managerial
capabilities and commitment to family planning goals. and recognized that
the project was "less than ideally prepared" when the appraisal mission was
sent in February 1978.
C. Project Appraisal
2.13      IDA's rationale for appraising at this stage was that requiring
further preparation would have meant loss of MOH willingness to work with
the Bank. loss of MOH credibility. reduction in the Bank's role in Egypt's
family planning efforts, and further delays in implementing a more active
population policy. Finally. IDA believed that in its emphasis and
administrative arrangements. this project - even in its still incomplete
form - avoided the problems of Credit 437-EGT. and would have a valuable
institution-building effect within MOH.
2.14      At the time of the mission's visit,  the Minister of Health
urgently requested IDA to expedite project processing so as to hasten credit
effectiveness. Accordingly, both to avoid furthir delay in getting local
and foreign funds needed to complete project preparation. and to compensate
for the shortcomings in project preparation. IDA approved a Project
Preparation Facility. effective April 14. 1978. in the amount of
US$371,000.  This advance was to fmnance matters such as preparation of
working and final designs for the civil works. detailed design of the IEC
component, preparation of the training component. and a base line survey to
facilitate project evaluation.
2.15      IDA also committed itself to providing close and detailed
supervision. in light of the project's untested features. high risks. and
the difficulties concurrently being experienced in implementing the first
project.



-5-
D. Project Approval
2.16      The Credit was approved by the Board on October 5. 1978 and became
effective on May 1. 1979. Total project costs were estimated at US$60.3
million equivalent over five years. Financial provisions were a US$25
million equivalent IDA credit and a grant of US$8 million equivalent from
the United Kingdom's Office of Development Assistance (ODA), formerly the
Overseas Development Ministry. The GOE would contribute US$27.3 million
equivalent.
E. Project Goals. Objectives. and Risks
2.17      Goals.   The project's overall goal. as stated in the Appraisal
Report. was to address, "more directly and on a significantly larger scale
than any previous program in the country. the problems which have hindered
the adoption of family planning practices." While selected activities (IEC;
research and evaluation; and activities conducted through EFPA) would be
carried out at the national level. most would be implemented in seven of
Egypt's 25 governorates. The total population in the project areas was
estimated at 10 million. or about 26Z of Egypt's population.   It was
"contemplated that. at a later stage. a similar program would be undertaken
in other areas of the country. in light of the experience gained from the
project and from other related projects now being carried out."
2.18      Objectives.  The project was designed to contribute in the project
governorates and. to some extent in other areas as well, to three
interdependent objectives:
gi)   reductions in fertility. by increasing the demand for family
planning and by improving the supply of family planning services. as
well as by reducing infant mortality;
(ii) reductions in infant mortality and morbidity. through encouraging
a greater use of MCH services by stimulating demand and improving
supply; and
(iii)   reductions in maternal mortality and morbidity. through
increased use of MCH services. as well as by lowering fertility.
2.19      Riska.  The Appraisal Report identified four risks:
(i)   a history of poor cooperation and coordination among Egyptian
ministries and agencies responsible for family planning. This risk was
to be countered by the representation of all agencies on the High
Committee for Family Planning established by the Minister of Health to
advise him on family planning;
(ii) the inadequate preparation of doctors and nurses for implementing
an integrated MCH/FP program. In response. the MOH planned to start
training immediately. with IDA assistance and existing resources;



(iii) the unavailability or inadequacy of local funds. as in the case
of the first project. To avoid this risk, the COE agreed to include
both current and capital expenditures for the project. local and
foreign. in annual budgets during the project period. The Government
also established a project fund. to be opened and replenished at a
level of about LE5.O0O. to be used for implementation of budgeted
project activities.  In addition. the Ministry of Finance agreed to
second a financial controller to the Ministry of Health to obviate
administrative difficulties; and
(iv)   lack of relevant managerial experience at central and local
levels; the project addressed this issue by providing training for
senior staff. as well as advisory services for project planning and
implementation.
F. Project Description
2.20      The Appraisal Report described in detail the following project
components for six governorates. to be financed by IDA:
(i)   Information, Education, and Communication (INC).  The IEC
activities were aimed primarily at married women with two or more children.
and at leaders of opinion.   Special emphasis was placed on improving
continuation rates of contraceptive use, increasing the proportion of IUD
users. and reaching rural and urban poor. particularly illiterate women who
were not being reached by the MCH and family planning program. At
Appraisal. an outline of the IEC program had been prepared. with a detailed
plan of action to be developed by May 1. 1979. The IEC program would be
carried out by the MOH and agencies of the Ministry of Information and
Culture (MOIC). coordinated by a committee representing the agencies
involved. Films. slides, charts and othur audiovisual materials would be
produced (see Table 1); audiovisual equipment supplied for health centers
and mobile IEC units in the project Governorates; a "Theatre Caravan" and
local "Radio and Television Listeners" Clubs" established; technical
assistance and training provided.
(ii) Rome Viviting. The weakest link in the existing MCH/FP program
was lack of contact between the target groups and the health services. To
address this need. Population Project I included an experimental home
visiting program for about 5.000 families in the Bahteem area of Qalubia
Governorate. Under the much larger home visiting program in Population
Project II. households in the target groups were to be visited approximately
every two months, by a community member experienced in providing service to
that commanity.  Home visitors would receive eight weeks of training. and
would be provided with a motivational kit containing audiovisual aids and
with check lists for guidance in conducting visits. Home visitors would be
part time; each would cover about 200 families. They would be chosen in
cooperation with the local communities. and would be closely supervised by
staff trained for that purpose. The credit would finance a proportion of
the salaries for home visitors and their supervisors. on a declining scale
over the project life. It would also contribute to their training. their



- 7 -
IEC kits, and three man years of technical assistance. The MOH was to
prepare and review w.vith IDA by May 1. 1979. a detailed plan of
implementation, supervisz.on. and evaluation of the program.
(iii)   ICHIP Trainint.  This component would assist in developing
basic content and methods for training related to the MCH and FP programs.
and in training  of trainers and program organizers.  Six Multi-Purpose
Training Centers (MPTCs) would be built in the project governorates for in-
service training in MCH and family planning. and to improve the training of
doctors and nurses in community medicine. especially in their role in the
community outreach and management aspects of the MCHRFP program. GOB was to
furnish IDA with outlines of training programs for the centers by May 1.
1977. Living accomodations for two medical students would be built in each
of 90 rural health units. for field training in community medicine. as part
of basic professional training.
(iv)   Nxpansion of UeeLth Service Delivery.  This component was
designed to eztend the reach ol primary health services within the project
Governorates to areas that law.ked health facilities, and to improve the
quality of services available in existing health units. The project
provided for: (a) construction and equipment of 48 rural health units and
nine small urban general health centers with an emphasis on MCH services, as
well as obstetric and IUD insertion equipment for existing health
facilities; (b) one ambulance for each of 59 MCR centers and 179 rural
health centers to improve outreach and provide emergency transport; and (c)
61 multi-purpose vehicles for supervision in the project area.
Cv)  Reeareh and Evsluation.  The objectives of this component were:
(a) to provide research utpport for the project and for the Ministry of
Health's primary health programs, especially MCH and family planning; and
(b) to develop a system for collection and processing of data for the MCH
and family planninag programs. At the time of Appraisal, a Research and
Development Unit was being set up in the MOR's Department of Family
Planning. This unit was expected to coordinate a research program to be
carried out by Egyptian research institutions and universities under the
project.
(vi)  Innovative Activities.  Experience with population programs in
other countries indicates that it is helpful to allow for flexibility to
finance activities unforeseen at the time of appraisal.  The credit
therefore included funds amounting to about 4.52 of the base project cost
(equivalent to about $1.9 million) for "innovative activities," for which
proposals might be developed during the course of project implementation.
Criteria for such activities were: (a) relevance to program objectives; (b)
innovativeness; (c) that the credit be the most appropriate source for
financing; (d) feasibility of administration and evaluation; and (e)
replicability.



2.21      In addition, the project included ODA financing for two types of
activities:
ti) Activities in Winya. In Minya. the seventh project governorate.
ODA was to finance each of the components described above. and
(ii) Support to the Egyptian Family Planning Association (EPPA)* This
component was to be entirely financed by ODA. for the purpose of
strengthening EFPA's capacity to provide clinical and motivational services.
especially in the project area.  Intended to complement the IrA-financed
activities. this component included: 3a) additional furniture and equipment
for the 94 family planning centers in the Project Governorates; (b) 22
vehicles, one for each of the Governorate-level associations affiliated to
EEPA; (c) two fully equipped IEC vehicles; and (d) vehicles. library
facilities and equipment for the Alexandria Family Planning Training
Institute.
M. PE)JWI   f           TIION AND COST
A. Effectiveness and Start-Up
3.01      The loan became effective on May 9. 1979. following approval of
the Credit by the Peoples' Assembly.   The two special conditions of
effectiveness had been met, namely:
(a) the signing of the agreement between the GOE and the Overseas
Development Ministry of the United Kingdom; and
(b) the establishment of a replenishable cash fund of LE 5.000 to be
available to the Project Executive Director-General to meet project
expenditures.
3.02      Several other conditions under the Credit Agreement were not met
on schedule. however, including the development of detailed implementation
plans for the IEC, home visiting and training components; and appointments
to several key project posts.  Delays of up to two years in fulfilling these
conditions seriously slowed the start-up of the software components.
3.03      These delays were caused and/or compounded by serious problems of
project management, including excessive centralization of responsibility.
insufficient involvement of governorate-level staff. staff turn-over. and
use of part-time personnel in key positions.  The start up of software
activities. in particular. was also set back by the unexpected death in
August 1979. of the able project coordinator.
3.04      IDA had established a Project Preparation Facility of $371.000
precisely to help avert such delays in start-up (see para. 2.14). However.
the PPF was not fully utilized. partly due to MOH reluctance to appoint
technical experts from outside the ministry to undertake the required
tasks.  An estimated 16Z of the total PPF budget was spent.



- 9 -
3.05      Thanks in part to the near-exclusive focus on hardware by both MOH
and the Project Executive Director General (PEDG). start-up was accomplished
at an "unprecedented pace" with regard to civil works and procurement of
furniture and equipment.
B. Revisions
3.06      During the course of the project. Credit 850-hGT required one
amendment to the Credit Agreement, two reallocations of funds. and two
extensions of the project closing date. These successive revisions, agreed
to by IDA. reflect delays and changes by the Borrower in project scope and
emphasis, scaling down the software components, and IDA's simultaneous
efforts to salvage at least some of the software goals set forth in the
Appraisal Report.
3.07      The amendment to the credit agreenet concerned the disbursement
schedule. The original credit agreement provided for disbursements against
salaries of incremental project staff as follows: 85% in 1979. 652 in 1980,
45% in 1981 and 25% in 1982. Due to delays in implementation of the
software components, IDA agreed. at GOE's request. to extend each of these
dates by one year.
3.08      The first of the reallocations was made in May 1982. when IDA
agreed to GOE's request that US$2.6 million be reallocated from Category 8.
Unallocated, to Category 1 to cover increased costs of civil works.  The
second reallocation of credit funds occurred in 1984; IDA approved the
transfer of $4 million from Category 5 of the Credit Agreement. Salaries of
Incremental Staff, to Category 2. Vurniture, Equipment and Materials, and
agreed to disburse against the completion of three Maternal and Child Health
Centers in Minya governorate originally to be fully financed by the ODA
grant.
3.09      Extensions of Closing Date.  In December 1983. after delays of at
least two years in software implementation and of almost four years in
family planning service delivery. IDA agreed to extend the project closing
date by one year. to December 1984, with extension for a second year
conditional on adequate performance in the first. The MOH prepared an
action plan to improve project execution, agreed with IDA after revision in
April 1984.   After some progress in implementation of the hardware
components and a start in implementation of the software activities in 1984,
along with renewed support for the project by some senior MOH officials. IDA
extended the credit to December 31. 1985.
3.10      Upon re-extending the credit. IDA advised GOE to request partial
cancellation of the undisbursed funds (US$5 million out of a total US$10
million undisbursed). but later reversed this decision at GOE's request
following creation of the National Population Council (NPC) with President
Mubarak's support. and renewed high-level emphasis on population issues.
These decisions concerning Credit extensions and funding were prudent and in
accord with IDA's long--erm interest in strengthening the prospects for
enhanced family planning activities in Egypt.



- 10 -
3.11      In late 1985, IDA extended the project closing date by another
three months, to March 31. 1986, in the hope of being able to approve a
longer extension upon receipt of an acceptable two year action plan from
MOH. However, IDA rejected the final MOH proposals on the grounds that they
failed to address the Credit's primary objective of fertility reductions and
then regrettfully closed the credit on March 31, 1986. The Credit closing
included a final provision that IDA would consider disbursement applications
received before September 30. 1986. for eligible expenditures related to
contracts signed on or before the closing date.
3.12      It should be noted that, in addition to the foregoing revisions,
in early 1984. ODA cancelled the US$3.1 million equivalent undisbursed
balance of its $8 million co-financing grant.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.13      Implementation emphasized hardware benefitting health objectives,
rather than software benefitting family planning.  Accordingly. the
project's first three years were devoted mainly to construction of new
health facilities and to the procurement of furniture. equipment and
vehicles. After some initial delays. construction progressed well and was
80Z complete by mid-1982.
3.14      Software implementation. however. fell as much as two to four
years behind schedule. with little attention to upgrading the skills of
regular health workers, hiring and training of home visitors, or designing,
producing and distributing IEC materials. This work only began with the
change in project management. after the hardware component had been largely
implemented, and with the approach of the Credit closing date.
3.15      Faced with a growing gap between the appraisal schedule and actual
software implementation. IDA continued to provide close supervision; exerted
strong pressure on project staff; insisted that MOH hire technical
assistance. particularly for management. IEC, and training; collaborated
closely with MOH in the preparation of detailed work plans; and acceded to
various project simplifications along the way, for example. reduction in the
number of home visitors, and reduction in the IEC program.  Agreements on
numerous aspects of software implerentation were regularly incorporated in
aide memoires left by successive supervision missions.
3.16      Despite the agreements reached through this process. there were
long delays in decision-making and frequent failure to fully execute agreed
actions. on the part of MOH. The causes include lack of commitment to
family planning goals, failure to staff the project office with the number
and quality of personnel agreed at appraisal, bureaucratic inertia. and
centralization of decision-making.  Additional causes were the lack of
coordination among all the different family planning efforts within MOR; the
fact that this project was isolated within MOH and implemented practically
outside the Ministry itself; the persistent reluctance of MOR to utilize
expatriate technical assistance; and the changing delegation of



- 11 -
responsibility to the project office. which ranged from high at the
beginning. to very low at the end.
3.17      In 1983, IDA exercised its strongest leverage by making extensions
of the Credit conditional on GOE willingness to meet explicit performance
standards. which wera carefully set forth and agreed to by MOH. Prol$resa
improved somewhat under these circumstances. thanks in part to efforts of
the incumbent project director in response to the threatened loss of the
Credit.  Nevertheless. implementation of software components ciaitinued to
fall far short of appraisal and revised targets.
D. Reporting
3.18      Project management had  difficul-y  in meeting  reporting
requirements. apart from presentation of Government audit reports on a
regular basis. despite repeated requests by IDA to MOR.   In the early
stages. reporting for the construction component was not always easily
available to IDA. and supervision on this front was perceived as unwarranted
interference -- particularly with regard to auditing of accounts and
financial statements of expenses.  The project office frequently failed to
maintain sufficient full-time staff or adequate contact whith on-going
activities to be able to maintain complete and accurate records. The Aide-
Memoire seems to have performed this function in the project's early years.
3.19      It was only in March 1983, that IDA received the first quarterly
report. From this date on. reporting performance improved. A regular flow
of outline reports was established and, although lacking in detailed
information. they did record achievements on targets agreed to by project
management and IDA.
E. Procurement
3.20      Although initial efforts were made to recruit a procurement
officer. as required under the Credit agreement, this position was never
filled due partly to the Project Director's personal preference, and partly
to the difficulties of finding a qualified procurement specialist also
proficient in English.  Consequently, the first project director handled
procurement  alone.   Early supervision  reports note that under this
arrangement. all major preparatory steps for implementing the project's
civil works were accomplished "at an unprecedented pace. but also without
Bank's consultation."   Consequently. difficulties in procurement of
furniture, equipment and vehicles arose through the PEDG's failure to
observe and comply with related provisions in the Credit Agreement.
procedures for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and project
guidelines. Other issues affecting procurement were delays in transmitting
and/or translating changes in agreed documents. specifications and equipment
lists.
3.21      Following IDA's strong expressio v of concern and improved
cooperation by project management. much time was ultimately saved on
construction work through the use of bidding documents and procedures agreed



- 12 -
upon during implementation of the first project. as well as through the
decision to contract all design and preparation activities outside MOH. A
major innovation was MOH's agreement to make use of letters of credit to
overcome cash flow problems.
3.22      Under the software components, direct contracting and Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures were used for contracting software
preparation, IEC production. and senior level training.  Following
tremendous efforts to accomodace MOH regulations to IDA's LCB requirements.
the project office was able to pi-ocure training and the production of IEC
materials at low cost.
F. Costs
3.23      TIie actual cost estimate of the project is US$34.36 million, which
is 43Z below the appraised esti{rte of 73S$60.3 million.  A comparison of
Appraised and Actual project costs by expenditure category is attached (see
Table 3). The shortfall in project cost was due to lack of implementation
in the software components:   (i) the IEC. training and home visiting
activities were both delayed and reduced in scope;  (ii) most of the money
for technical assistance wan never utilized; and  (iii) very little was done
in research and evaluation. or in innovative activities. The cosr overruns
in civil works of about 25%. and in goods of about 20% were due to initial
delays, inflation rates higher than expected. poor supervision of
contractors, and the approval of IDA financing for MCH centers originally to
be financed by the ODA grant.   Underruns occured in vehicles. technical
assistance, and salaries. Innovative activities and operating costs had the
least implementation having spent only 9% and 8%. respectively. of the
appraised monetary allocation.
G. Disbursements and Financing Plan
3.24      Disbursements under the Credit continually lagged far behind
appraised estimates. primarily because through early 1982. expenditures were
almost exclusively related to civil works and procurement of equipment and
vehicles.  Only then. under strong IDA pressure. did MOH begin to make
expenditures for incremental salaries and incentives for staff dealing with
project administration and software components (see Table 4).
3.25      The pace of disbursements was further slowed because of the
project office's repeated failure to submit timely and procedurally correct
withdrawal applications.  Successive missions were able to resolve these
problems, for the most part, but they did occasion an inordinate amount of
correspondence and friction between IDA and the PEDG during the project's
first three years.
3.26      As of September 1983. three months before the original closing
date. only 53% of the credit had been disbursed. When Credit 850-EGT was
closed on March 31. 1986. after two extensions of the closing date. only
68%. or US$17.0 million, had been disbursed; the outstanding balance of



- 13 -
US$8.0 million was cancelled. Out of ODA's initial contribution. about 62%
was disbursed.
3.27      Financing.   Of the project's  total actual costs of US$34.5
million, the respective financing contributions of IDA, ODA. and GOE were
50%, 14%, and 36%.  These project financing contributions compare closely
with the proposed contributions at Appraisal which were 42%. 13%. and 45z.
respectively.
H. Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Borrower
3.28      Although in general the construction of physical facilities was
accomplished speedily. project management had difficulty in providing
adequate site supervision.   As a result. the civil works activities
experienced delays in the completion of some facilities. poor quality work.
and substantial cost overruns. in extreme cases, of about 100X.
3.29      Reasons for cost overruns offered by project management were poor
preparatory work. imprecise contract documents, erratic project monitoring
and inadequate supervision.
3.30      Poor quality of construction work was attributable to poor
qualification of contractors, poor supervision. lack of flexibility of
standard designs to conform to site specific-t;ons and local building
technology, as well as to the absence of training. ma  als. and funds for
maintenance.
3.31      After repeated recommendations by IDA,  a full-time project
architect was hired to increase supervision and oversee completion of civil
works. Nevertheless, remaining conflicts between MOH and contractors
prevented the completion of three MCH centers, as well as Training Centers
in Minya and Qena.
3.32      Performance of other consultants and contractors was mixed.  The
local IEC consultant was excellent; very useful contributions were also made
by the U.S. management consultant and by local university staff contracted
to train labor union and MOH personnel.  The local Program Advisor was
instrumental in preparing the project proposal and software training
programs. but later contributions were not significative; research contracts
with local universities yielded little useful material.
IV. PROJECr PERF M    AN)D IIACr
A. Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
4.01      This was the slowest component to get off the ground.  The
detailed 4-year IEC plan of action that was a covenant of the credit
agreement was to be submitted to IDA by May 1979, but was not actually
produced until June 1980. and its implementation began only in late 1981.
when a full-time IEC Director was finally appointed. Even then progress was
very slow, and more evident in the procurement of equipment. vehicles and



- 14 -
suppiest thuit iti the production, distribution and actual use of IEC
materials.
4.02      By early 1982, 979 community leaders had been given orientation
coursea on the project, personnel for 32 mobile vans had been trained, and
secretaries designated for all 41 Listeners and Viewers Clubs (LCVs), but
their activities were hamstrung by lack of IEC materials.
4.03      MOH's Center for Education Technology was to have produced these
materials, and received a substantial quantity of equipment under the Credit
for that purpose. However, although the Center reportedly prepared a number
of pamphlets on MCH/FP issues, these materials were never actually produced
and distributed.   IDA never received a satisfactory explanation of this
failure, but the reasons appear to involve lack of production funds and
political conflict over the Center's role.
4.04      In late 1983. a Supervision team reported that homes,  health
workers, and motivators were "starved for materials," including films, video
programs, slide sets, pamphlets, and posters.  The project had still r.ot
produced these materials itself, was resistant to contracting technical
assistance for this purpose, and was reluctant to distribute materials
produced by other agencies.
4.05      However, the IEC component made a late but successful entry into
the project when, after repeated urging by IDA, an outstanding local IEC
production manager was finally hired in April 1984. Private contractors in
the private sector began to produce print and film materials, and the
Ministry of Information and Culture (MOIC) produced broadcast materials for
state radio and television. One year later, a supervision mission was able
to report that IEC was now reaching the public, but that continued
understaffing and bureaucratic delays were still limiting the level of
perfomance.  Moreover, although IDA deemed the materials of excellent
quality, the volume of production was substantially smaller than appraisal
expectations and insufficient for widespread household, clinic or public
distribution. IDA also expressed concern that the materials were too health
oriented, not focused specifically enough on population and contraceptive
use, and not sufficiently directed at the target population.
4.06      The 41 LVCs contemplated at Appraisal were established but
functioned only sporadically, due to lack of software, inadequate electrical
wiring, increased private television ownership, scheduling, and personnel
problems.  Fourteen IEC mobile vans were purchased, but shortage of
materials, equipment breakdown and rival claims to van time limited the
potential of this project activity. The "Theatre Caravan" was never formed.
4.07      In summary, although some excellent IEC materials were produced by
the project, the ambitious IEC plan contemplated at appraisal was not fully
implemented due to various factors, including:   MOH failure to appoint
sufficient qualified IEC staff: MOH reluctance to actively promote family
planning within the general health context; and the resulting slow start and
low production volume. Also noteworthy, however, is the report of a March



- 1S -
1985 supervision mission that, in contrast with post experience of USAID and
the Bank, MOR had made major concessions to project development in XIC bys
following local sompetitiv. bidding procedures, contracting profesiionals of
international standing at competitive rates, and by contracting out filr
production to highly qualified local directors.
B. Home Visiting Progam tHVP)
4.08      The first population project's experimental HVP effort illustrated
the difficulties that a larger HVP program woula encounter, such as lack of
trained home visitors,  the clinical rather than community orientation of
physicians, the inadequate quality of nursing staff, and the need for
incentives for community participation. The initial MOH proposal for the
second population project contemplated another small home visiting
component, to address some of the problems encountered previously. However,
it appears that the home visiting component for Population Project II was
substantially expanded during the appraisal pr6cess. probably due to IDA
prassure on MOE.
4.09      A home visiting program Plan of Action was submitted to IDA in
June 1979, as required by the Credit Agreement (see Tatle 1). Prepared by
the National Planning Institute under contract to MOH, the model envisaged
in this plan departed in several respects from the Appraisal design and led
to important program revisions that IDA subsequently approved.  The net
effect of these design revisions was to reduce the intensity of MCR/FP
promotional work, to reduce the coverage of the home visiting program, and
to dilute the strategies of regular home visiting and use of non-medical
personnel to promote MCH/FP services.
4.10      The first change was that instead of relying exclusively on
community-based non-health personnel (or "motivators") for home visiting.
the project vould also allow MOH nurses in this role, and would experiment
with three edifferent mixes of home visiting personnel.  Second. the HV
component was significantly reduced in scope. HVs were to be deployed at a
rate of one fcr every 500 families, instead of one for every 200 families,
thereby reducith. the need to only 4,000 homevisitors instead of the 10,500
called for in the Appraisal Report. Even this smaller target figure would
take three years to be met, through expected annual additions of nurses to
existing MOH staff. Yet another change was the inclusion, for the whole
project, of incentive payhents for MOH supervisory personnel without
requiring extra work.
4.11      Training of trainers, HVs. and motivators began in mid-1981.  By
June 1982 the target number of nurses had been recruited and trained; in
Qena governorate. due to the shortage of nurses, 400 traditional midwives
known as dayas had been recruited, out of a target of 700. and were
undergoing training; only one third of the motivators had been recruited, of
whom just over half had been trained. Six thousand home visitor kits were
supplied by ODA, consisting of a bag containing oral contraceptives, simple
medicines and simple educational materials provided by MOH,  ODA also



- 16 -
provided 1000 magnetic visual learning boards for use especially with
illiterates.
4.12      Home visiting finally began in 1982. but not in the quantity
reported to the project office nor with the quality needed to produce
results.   Staffing strength as of September 1985. was reported as 1,874
nurses and 818 motivators. During the project's final year. there was an
effort in some governorates to concentrate home visiting on target families,
better IEC support as materials began to be produced, and the hope of
increased recruitment of dayas as motivators following an MOH national
licensing and training program for dayas.
4.13      The main constraints to HVP activities included: weak and over-
centralized management by the project directorate; insufficient emphasis on
FP services in both the jcb descriptions and training curriculum for HVs;
delays in start-up of training programs. -roduction of kits and manuals,
production of supporting IEC materials,  RD< tayment of incentives for HVs;
difficulties  in recruiting and retaic.nri! HVs because of low pay and
excessive form-filling; lack of training  . totivational techniques for HVs
and in supervisory skills for supervisors; limited mix of contraceptives;
insufficient focus on target families with fewer than three children.
4.14      Because the HVP was never evaluated, its impact cannot be assessed
in quantifiable terms. However, the March 1985 supervision report concluded
that "the volume, quality and impact of home visiting are issues that the
project office has proved unable to address, nor has project management been
effective in communicating these concerns to the governorates".  The final
supervision report of September 1985. reported that the project office had
virtually turned its back on HVP activities. that the director of home
visiting was fully occupied monitoring implementation of the information
system, that there was no interest in evaluating or revising the field
program at this point, and that "MOH managers remain unaware of the
importance of client-orientation and outreach work in stimulating regular
use of preventive health services in general, and family planning services
in particular."
C. MCH/FP Training
4.15      An ambitious training plan, a covenant of the credit and prepared
by the Institute of National Planning, encompassed five categories of
training, to be carried out at the central and district levels. Training
was to be provided for: the staff of the training unit; higher-level
professional staff in management positions (to partially replace the
overseas program agreed at appraisal); trainers of medical students in
family planning; trainers of the 6 Multi-Purpose Training Centers (MPTC);
and field level personnel including doctors, nurses, paramedicals.
statistical clerks and maintenance staff.
4.16      All told, training was given to 6582 participants in 38 separate
types of courses conducted between 1979 and 1985. with some trainees
participating in more than one course.  The training program achieved a



- 17 -
number of objectives. First, MOH capacity to implement an MCH/FP training
program was enhanced. both through the production of training materials
(e.g. manuals and guidelines), and the development of courses for training
trainers. Training manuals in family planning for dayas. physicians and
nurses. family planning manuals for sanitarians and social workers, a
project trainers manual, and a midwifery training slide set were all adopted
by MOH. They were expected to be reprinted under the project for national
distribution and use in other MOH trainirng; ultimately. however. this plan
was abandoned.
4.17      Second. administrators at the central. district and governorate
levels were introduced to management training and theory. Third. Medical
and paramedical personnel received in-service training in MCH/PP. IUD
insertion, home visiting skills. and supervisory skills. Fourth. MOH field
personnel were oriented to the elements of a comprehensive MCHMFP program.
Fifth. for the first time dayas. or traditional midwives. received training.
4.18      Performance.   This component was disappointing in a number of
important respects. First, many training materials and courses gave only
superficial emphasis to family planning.  Supervision teams reported that
"essential family planning-related training for motivational service-
delivery and basic information-dissemination has formed only a small part of
overall training proposed for health professionals and motivators over the
years," and that project training "failed to emphasize knowledge of
contraceptive methods and use. nor motivational skills for home visitors in
family planning." MOH did become somewhat more responsive to these concerns
in the project's later stages.
4.19      A second failing was that the momentum of training flagged, with
the result that project office and governorate training supervisors did not
maintain the basic training routines, distribution of manuals. or regular
familiarization  courses.   The  training  undertaken was,  in turn,
unsatistictory in terms of numbers of people reached, coverage, content and
quality. In addition. the project did not attempt the training originally
contemplated for 2340 medical students annually in community medicine with
an MCH/FP emphasis.  Between 1984-85 MOH reported that it was negotiating
with local universities to provide such courses.
4.20      In addition to software activities. the training component aiso
included the construction of Multi-Purpose Training Centers (MPTCs) in each
project governorate, and of living accomodations for two medical students in
each of 90 rural health units. Four of the six MPTCs were completed.
furnished and equipped on schedule. At the time of the Credit's closing.
the other two centers were still unfinished and the completed MPTCs were
being only minimally used. but a utilization plan was being developed. The
90 student accomodation units were constructed. but mission field visits to
three governorates encountered unused and deteriorating buildings. In sum.
the construction program has enhanced training capability but has yet to
produce results in terms of improved performance.



- 18 -
D. Intensification of Health Service Delivery
4.21      This component contemplated the expansion of health facilities by
constructing. furniraing and equipping 48 Rural Health Units (RHU), 9
Maternal and Child Health Centers (MCHC). and re-equipping a number of
existing facilities, plus provision of ambulances and vehicles.
4.22      This was the most advanced project component. making rapid
progress almost from the outset. By mid-1982, 122 project facilities (or
80Sof the total) had been completed. and an average of 75% of all furniture.
equipment and vehicles had been procured. Progress was sloweet in the more
remote governorates. due to lack of skilled labor.
4.23      Despite  the priority  accorded to civil works by project
management, this component also confronted a number of problems. First.
construction costs significantly exceeded original estimates. In addition.
IDA supervision reports note that the quality of construction. and
particularly drainage. plumbing and electrical installations, was generally
poor. Possible causes were noted as: ti) poor quality of contractors;
(ii) poor quality control during supervisions by executing architects and
governorate public work department representatives; and   (iii) lack of
flexibility of standard design in adapting to sites and local building
technology. In addition. there were errors in the distribution of equipment
and furniture, as well as inadequate maintenance - due to the lack of
training. manuals. ana Zmands allocated specifically for maintenance.
4.24      Nevertheless, all completed service facilities were reportedly
staffed. equipped. and functioning by project completion.  In summary.
physical facilities constructed under the credit have increased access to
health services for families living in selected areas. as anticipated at
appraisal.
B. Research and Evaluation
4.25      Under this component. MCH/FP programs were to be provided with
research and statistical support, through the establishment of two new units
within the Department of Family Planning at the NOR: (i) a Statistics and
Registration Unit. to collect and evaluate service statistics in PP and MCR;
and   (ii) a Research and Development Unit. to develop an operationally-
oriented research program for improving program performance.
4.26      Both units were established expeditiously, including appointment
of qualified staff and identification of activities for the project's first
and subsequent years. In particular. a baseline survey was scheduled for
the first year. with follow-up surveys and analysis expected to provide the
benchmark data necessary for later project evaluation.
4.27      After this promising start. however. both units fell inactive
following the Undersecretary's death in mid-1979, and the departure of the
Minister of Health particularly committed to this component. Neither unit
ever functioned actively during the project lifetime.



- 19 -
4.28      The Baseline Survey. based on a household questionnaire drafted by
the Institute for National Planning (INP), was finally begun in 1982. IDA
population specialists judged the preliminary results provided to the
project office by INP in 1985 to be "completely out of line with other
surveys" and "too high to be believable."   The March 1985 Supervision
Mission advised that final estimates would have to await a more careful
analysis of the survey; however, the necessary follow-up was never done.
The project office also undertook a statistical compilation of FP data from
all project governorates; while considered "a good effort by the project
office." IDA deemed it unreliable for statistical analysis due to use of
uncorrected base data.
-4.29      The development of an effective management and information system
(MIS) was a key project objective. MOH already collected a vast amount of
service statistics; however, only that data required for paying incentives
was tabulated in timely fashion.  In 1985 the project office did introduce
rand test a simplified data collection system, with the goal of establishing
a management information system recording key indicators for use by unit.
district and governorate level personnel in monitoring KCH/FP activities.
When consolidated with a national system developed under USAID funding, as
planned, MOR will have established an MCH/FP information system as agreed at
appraisal. ODA provided MOH with technical support in developing basic
indicators for assessing program impact.
4.30      Two research studies contracted to Al Azhar University were of
disappointing quality:   "Factors Affecting the Utilization of MCH/FP
Services in Egypt," and "Evaluation of the Impact of Various Categories of
Home Visitors on MCH/FP Attitudes and Practices". More were not undertaken.
in part, because the program advisor devoted little time to this activity.
4.31      The project office abandoned a number of research projects-
evaluation of the effect of different IEC channels on fertility behavior.
evaluation of the effect of training on the home visiting program. and a
representative activity study of Basic Health Services Facilities.
According to the March 1985 supervision report. not only did the project
office have difficulty identifying suitable researchers, but the training
wand IEC programs had been so fragmented as to make valid research almost
impossible. MOB was also reluctant to submit to activity or consumer-
oriented research.
F. Support to the Egyptian Family Planning Association (EFPA)
4.32      This component, financed wholly by ODA, consisted of the provision
of furniture. equipment, vehicles and library facilities for different
branches of the EFPA. This non-governmental organization provides family
planning services from about 485 outlets around the country, utilizing
government doctors working overtime for the EFPA and thereby providing a
facility when other facilities are closed.



- 20 -
4.33      This component was supervised through ODA's delegation   of
responsibility to the London office of IPPF. and was fully implemented with
regard to the purchase of all anticipated items. However, some containers
of equipment have been left unclaimed in Alexandria port. despite combined
efforts by the project office. ODA. IPPF and IDA to encourage EFPA to
liberate them from customs. At issue is institutional responsibility for
payment of accumulating charges which EFPA is unwilling to assume.
G. Innovative Activities
4.34      Intended to support activities which might emerge as a result of
experience gained during project implementation. this component. like all
other project components, was under the direct management of the Project
Executive Director-General. with his Undersecretary having overall
responsibility for design and execution.
4.35      MOH initially proposed two activities under this category: an
experimental home visiting program based on the "home visitors plus
motivators" model (see para. 4.10). and a nutrition element. In connection
with these activities. IDA financed 50X of the costs associated with the HVP
motivators. and the costs of a study of food habits in Minya governorate.
4.36      In 1984. in response to IDA prodding. MOH initiated efforts to
motivate labor groups through seminars and publications. and approached the
police and armed forces as well. The metallurgical, construction. and
seamstress syndicates responded eagerly to proposals for work on population
education, and also requested contraceptive service delivery at the
workplace. However. MOH response was limited to information dissemination
through articles for the syndicate journal (see Table 2). and some financing
of workshops for labor leaders.  It was unclear whether MOH failure to
provide actual services was due to financial or political pressures. Lack
of interest of the part of MOH. compounded by budgetary problems. prevented
extension of the education programs to the latter two syndicates. schools
and the armed forces.
4.37      Despite agreements between MOB and IDA in late 1984 and 1985
(included in several aide memoires) to expand these innovative motivational
activities. several factors prevented follow-up action. The Deputy Director
of the project suddenly died. and was not replaced nor were his duties
reassigned; budget limitations; and the belief that such operations would.
in the future. be the responsibility of the newly-formed National Population
Council.
H. Project Impact on Fertility Reduction and Maternal and Child Health
4.38      The Appraisal Report set forth specific targets for family
planning as well as for maternal and child health.  The Pamily Plamning
Target. for the project governorates were based on GOE's official goal of
reducing the country's CBR by one point per thousand per year. resulting in
a national CBR of 31 per thousand by 1982. To reach this target within the
project governorates. the proportion of married women of reproductive age



- 21 -
using contraceptive methods would need to be increased from about 17X in
1977. to 30.5% in 1982. or about 850.000 new acceptors to be recruited over
the period 1978-82.  The Appraisal Report acknowledged that these targets
were ambitious: "it is doubtful whether they can be attained. especially for
the nation as a whole". For the project Governorates. a doubling of the
number of continuing users over 1977 levels. from about 240.000 to 500.000.
could perhaps be realistically expected by mid-1984. Even this somewhat
more modest target would entail a considerable effort.
4.39      Impact on Fertility.   Although a number of surveys have been
carried out in Egypt to determine the level of contraceptive practice in the
country. it is still very difficult to determine at present what is
happening.  The National Fertility Survey of 1974-75 indicated that about
26.5% of married women of childbearing age were practicing contraception at
that time. The Egyptian Fertility Survey of 1980. reduced that percentage
to 23.8%. In addition. the Egyptian Contraceptive Prevalence Survey of 1980
determined contraceptive prevalence to be 17.1% for rural areas, while the
Egyptian Fertility Survey that same year determined this rate to be 11.7x.
4.40      To further complicate this picture. the Baseline Survey taken to
evaluate the results of the Second Population Project presented preliminary
results totally out of line with those mentioned above.  This Survey was
taken at the end of 1982. and its results should Lave been consistent with
those of other surveys carried out at about the same time.  The results
showed that. for project areas. the proportion of married women of
childbearing age with at least one pregnancy and using a contraceptive
method varied between 20% in the rural area of Qena, and 78% in the urban
area of Qualubeya. Even correcting the data to include all married women of
childbearing age. the rates would be too high to be i,elievable. A careful
review and analysis of this data has yet to be done.
4.41       Fertility rates declined somewhat, and contraceptive prevalence
increased between 1977 and the present. but it is unlikely that the project
contributed much to these positive developments. The Egypt World Fertility
Survey concludes that fertility reduction during this period is attributable
to several factors associated with increasing urbanization: later marriage.
higher eduucatiuuail ticLa'Aiment. o"d  .v.e6  iW-ei y0.-tualLtAslA  for socio=
economic development. The urban Contraceptive Prevalence Rate has risen to
42.5%. according to the Egypt 1984 Contraceptive Prevalence Survey. with
private maternity clinics, physicians and pharmacies increasingly the
preferred resource for all consumers of maternal and child health care
except the very poor.
4.42       Maternal and Child Realth.  The project also had ambitious MCH
tsrgets:  (a) increase in deliveries supervised by trained persons to over
80%:  (b) increase in prenatal care to 75% and postpartum care to 100x;  (c)
reduction of nutritional anemia among pregnant and lactating women by half:
(d) elevation of the first-year immunization rate for children to 90%;
(e) elimination of tetanus neonatorum entirely and reducing deaths from
gastoenteritis by half; and (f) reduction of nutritional anemia in children
aged 0-6 by half. The achievement of these MCH targets was expected to



- 22 -
reduce maternal and infant mortality rates in the project governorates by
one half. There is no data to indicate whether these targets w:.re achieved
or not, but, in hindsight, they were highly unrealistic. The project did
contribute to the expansion of services to a population not previously
covered.   The construction and staffing of more than 45 RHUs, and the
project's home visiting activities that motivated families to visit existing
and new health centers should have consequently improved to some degree the
health status of the target population, mainly mothers and children.
V.  INSTITUTI(RAL PERFOR9CE AND DEVKLOPHHNT
5.01      The Appraisal Report stated that the Director-General for Family
Planning in the MOH would serve as Project Executive Director General, with
an Assistant Project Executive responsible for day-to-day management, a
Program Advisor responsible for detailed planning of software components,
and a Project Coordinating Committee to assure coordination of all project
components.  A Procurement Officer for the project was to be appointed
within the MOH's Department of Family Planning; implementation of all civil
works would be the responsibility of a Project Architect. IndividuEl units,
of the Department of Family Planning were to provide technical guidance for
the relevant project components. At the governorate level, responsibility
for implementation of project activities was assigned to the MCH/FP unit in
the Office of the Director-General for Health Services, with a full-time
Project Assistant appointed in each project Governorate.
5.02      Management and organization was not included as a separate
component of the credit.   However,  in light of its experience with
Population Project I. IDA identified the establishment of a firm
organizational base for family planning within the MOH as pivotal to
successful project execution and. more generally. co GOE's prospects for
implementing an effective national population program in the future. IDA
was also convinced that prospects for improved MOH performance in the
delivery of family planning services depended heavily, in turn, on a
stronger GOE commitment to fertility reduction.
A. Commitment to Family Planning
5.03      During project lifetime a number of developments  in Egypt
indicated a national upswing of concern, at least at the highest levels of
government, regarding rapid population growth. During project preparation
IDA received official assurances of President Sadat's commitment to reducing
fertility rates, and Mrs. Sadat played a visible public role in support of
this goal. After President Mubarak assumed the Presidency in 1982. actions
that IDA described as "epoch-making in the history of FP in Egypt" included:..
forthright support by the President and the Peoples' Assembly for family
planning, in conjunction with GOE directives licensing dayas to insert IUDs;
standardizing the price of oral contraceptives, as demand was beginning to
exceed supply in response to the new climate;   strengthening the State,
Information Service (SIS) which propagates FP through the communications
network;   and intensified MOH support for the physician-intern training
program in FP.  The replacement in 1985. of the PFPB by the National



- 23 -
Population Council. with wide-ranging powers and responsibility. was seen as
yet another potential breakthrough in terms of explicit GOB commitment to
solving the population problem.
5.04      During these years. IDA was also heartened by a number of positive
developments within MOH itself. During project preparation. organizational
changes to strengthen the family-planning unit within MOH, in accord with
MA's diagnosis of the program's main weaknesses, were believed to presage a
new seriousness about family planning on the part of MOH.  Another
indication of enhanced commitment was extensive MOH preparation of a draft
proposal, submitted in 1981. for a third population project that, among
other things, would expand the work under Credit 850-BGT to additional
governorates.   And despite the project's problematic implementation.
impressive progress was often reported in particular component activities
during periods of energetic leadership by some MOH staff.
5.05      Unfortunately, increased commitment at high government levels was
not automatically reflected in the operational practices of ministry and
district level personnel. In the words of one veteran ODA official, despite
many public pronouncements over the years. "the message and will to carry
out policy has not permeated down through the hierarchy." Moreover, the
extent of high-level MOH commitment itself fluctuated, because some of the
most motivated officials died or left the ministry. Consequently. MOB
indifference to family planning -- both at high ministry levels and
certainly among health service delivery personnel -continued to be cited
throughout project life as the most pervasive constraint to improved
institutional performance and development.
5.06      Lack of commitment was reflected in footdragging on software
implementation, especially when compared to the speed of civil works
execution and, more specifically, in MOH reluctance to actively promote
family planning goals, services, methods, and education within its own
training materials, printed guidelines, work schedules, IEC materials, and
home visiting routine.
B. Management and Organizational Effectiveness
5.07      Supervision missions consistently saw the project's major problems
as managerial. and supervision reports repeat the same litany of management-
related concerns: under-staffing and reliance on part-time personnel in the
project office, centralization of decision-making, little contact with
action at governorate level, reluctance to hire expatriate technical
assistance, lack of forward planning, isolation from other MOH activities.
and lack of coordination among FP projects financed by different agencies.
Many of these managerial weaknesses were attributed to MOH disinterest in
more actively promoting family planning,  although the project itself
instilled more informed attitudes toward family planning on the part of some
health unit personnel.
5.08      A closer look also reveals. though, that the project engendered
improved organizational effectiveness in some areas.  The project office



- 24 -
instituted new management procedures, including a team approach to planning;
more effective techniques for personnel supervision and evaluation; Local
Competitive Bidding for contracting out project tasks; new reporting
procedures and a management information system; use of job descriptions.
operational manuals, training and supervision to incorporate MCH activities
into the work routine of personnel in rural health units.  In addition.
excellent. albeit infrequent, use was made of technical assistance, such as
that provided by the IEC production manager and the management consultant.
C. Staff Recruitment, Training and Development
5.09      As the Second Sector Review observed in 1985. "staff morale and
commitment are not improved by the low salaries in the government which
force them to have several full-time jobs in order to have a respectable
income." Constant shifting of interests. travel time between jobs. and slow
payment of incentives for taking on additional work under the project also
contributed to low morale and productivity. In this environment. IDA noted.
the staff's first goal was to use project funds to supplement income and to
produce the minimum results that would keep FP funds flowing. Lack of clear
and unequivocal support from the higher authorities also cast a negative
influence. For most staff, project duties were in addition to their normal
health service duties, and they doubted that MOR would continue the FP
incentive payments once project funds had dried up. These considerations
applied to the recruitment. training and retention of staff in the project
office as well as in the field program for home visitors and nurses.
D. Institutional Responsibility for Family Planning
5.10      Since 1965. MOH has played the major role in the delivery of FP
services. with several other ministries playing supporting roles: the
Ministry of Social Affairs; the Ministry of Education; the Ministry of
Information and Culture. The Population and Family Planning Board (PFPB)
was supposed to coordinate all government-supported population activities.
with each Ministry or agency implementing its own programs. IDA hoped that
Population Project II would foster improved coordination among these
agencies.  However. little was achieved in the way of intersectoral
cooperation. partly because from the beeinning the PFPB had itself declined
to participate in the project and instead advocated a broad "development
approach" to Egypt's population problem (see para.'s 2.06-2.08).
5.11      Moreover, despite its own lack of commitment to family planning
goals. the MOR was most reluctant to let other agencies share. much less
take over. the function of providing family planning services, and resisted
attemptq to develop family planning services outside MOH. When the National
Population Council was formed, the Bank's ability to take advantage of a new
institutional arrangement was constrained by the fact that MOH agreement was
required on any decision to reallocate funds from the credit. In any case,
lack of staff. lack of budget. the resulting delay in producing the
requested Five Year Plan of Action, and conflict with other agencies
involved in population work. including the MOH, discouraged initial



- 25 -
expectations that the NPC could spearhead a more serious national family
planning effort in the immediate future.
5.12      In summary, by the time of Credit closing, some modest progress
could be reported, but there remained formidable constraints to improved
institutional performance and development within the family planning program
of MOH. In fact, virtually the same obstacles to effective VP in Egypt were
identified by the 1985 Egypt Population Sector Review as had been
highlighted in the First Sector Review in 1973. namely: (i) lack of
sufficient government commitment to the population program; (ii) continuous
controversy on whether family planning or economic development can most
effectively bring down the fertility rate;   (iii) serious problems in
program management;  (iv) lack of well-trained staff to provide necessary
advice  and  services;    (v)  problems  in availability and mix of
contraceptives;   (vi) a failure to tie worker incentive systems to
performance; (vii) insufficient demand creation activities; and
(viii) lack of an effective management information system to follow up
program progress.   These constraints account for the poor results of the
national population effort, as well as of donor-financed projects. Success
in addressing these constraints will take years of patient, well-coordinated
efforts.
VI.   M
A. Project Justification and Objectives: Bank's and Borrower's
6.01      IDA saw population growth as probably the single most urgent
development problem in Egypt and. therefore, focused in corresponding
measure on the need to mobilize aggressive. multi-pronged fertility-
reduction efforts.
6.02      A number of leading Egyptian officials -  including some at the
Ministry of Health - shared IDA's concern about rapid population growth.
However. this concern was by no means unanimous, nor was it necessarily
reflected in a commitment to expanding FP services for reasons discussed in
paras. 2.06-2.08.  Moreover,  at the time of project preparation MOH's
primary sectoral priorities lay elsewhere, in the development and increased
public utilization of basic health services with particular emphasis on
bilharzia. MCH. and tuberculosis.
6.03      In sum. IDA's lending priority was for activities that would help
reduce national fertility rates, while the MOB wished primarily to borrow
for strengthening its health infrastructure.  These objectives did not
appea; inherently incompatible. and when MOB proposed an integrated.
community-based MCH/FP program. IDA deemed this approach a reasonable
compromise. The assumption was that careful project monitoring could keep
the project on the right track. That hope proved unexpectedly difficult to
put into practice. however (see discussion of Supervision. para.'s 6.12-
6.16), given the overriding MOH concern for expanding health facilities
combined with a pervasive institutional disinterest in family planning.



- 26 -
B. ProJect Content and Scheduling
6.04      It was not primarily project design that made this a problem
project. The implementation history of Credit 850-EGT does suggest that the
project wa8 somewhat too ambitious in content and geographical scope. and
that the implementation schedule was unrealistic. given the early and
continuous differences in MOH and IDA priorities (described in para. 6.03).
6.05      In retrospect. reducing the project's scope might have made its
implementation  less problematic.   But project content was  strongly
influenced by the parallel concerns of IDA (to reduce national fertility
rates) and MOH (to strengthen basic health servicea).  For example. in its
urgent desire to expand FP services. IDA apparently strong-armed MO  into
expanding the home visiting project far beyond original MOH intentions (see
para.'s 2.10 and 4.08).  IDA in effect offered MOH a quid pro quo within the
project design. permitting the civil works component to be larger than was
strictly justified on program grounds --while at the same time incorporating
far more family planning activities than were included in the first
population project.  This decision was politically realistic in terms of
winning joint MOH and IDA support for the project during appraisal. but
unrealistic in terms of attaining IDA's family planning objectives during
the project's actual implementation.
C. Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes
6.06      Preparation Requirements.    As noted earlier, IDA did relax
somewhat its usual standards regarding the level of detail in program design
required before Board approval, but compensated by establishing the PPF and
providing extra supervision. In all likelihood. a later approval date would
have benefitted neither overall project design nor the actual timing of
project activities. Moreover. by this time the PP unit within MOH had been
reorganized, the Minister of Health was strongly committed to the project.
and IDA had been assured of President Sadat's commitment. Therefore. the
decision to trade off more thorough preparation. in return for the good will
needed for project execution and an improved working relationship, was well-
advised.
6.07      Borr sor's I      plemeutation Capacity.   Some IDA staff conclude that
in its eagerness to launch a major population effort in Egypt. IDA vastly
overestimated MOR implementation capabilities. Closer examination suggests.
however, that IDA's assessment of MOH implementation capacity was founded on
realistic evidence of renewed high-level GOE/MOH commitment to family
planning. along with notable improvements in MOH performance during project
preparation as compared with performance under Population Project I. At the
time of project preparation IDA was well aware of MOH managerial
shortcomings.  An internal memorandum openly acknowledged that "project
management will inevitably be less strong than ideally desirable, and that
the project may be oriented too much toward a traditional health approach."
Nevertheless, IDA-GOE discussions at the highest levels led IDA to believe
that "a substantial positive shift in the GOB's attitude toward family



- 27 -
planning" was underway and that it was starting a vigorous program of family
planning using the health approach.
6.08      Early  positive  developments within the MOR described  in
para. 5.04. combined with the Finister of Health's vigorous commitment to
the project and high-quality appointments of project staff, appeared to
justify IDA's assessment of enhanced MOH capacity.  And. as the project
progressed. MOH showed itself very capable when it came to acting upon its
own priorities. i.e. in implementing the hardware components. Although far
less enthusiastic about implementing the inherently more difficult software
components. even here MOR demonstrated more than adequate implementation
capabilities when confronted with heavy MDA pressure during the credit's
last two years. On balance. IDA's assessment of MOH implementation capacity
does not appear overly optimistic but. rather. a reasonable judgment in
light of political and institutional considerations prevailing at time of
project preparation.
6.09      Bank  Supervision.   Supervision of the project. along with
preparation of the Second Sector Review in 1983. served as the main vehicle
for IDA dialogue with GOE on population strategy. Following through on its
original commitment of close supervision. IDA was generous in allocating
supervision time (an average of 33 staffweeks per year over seven yearP).
maintained considerable continuity of supervisory staff, and included well-
qualified specialists within supervision teams as necessary.
6.10      As in Population Project I. IDA played a dominant role in the
?supervision of the software components. because it attached greater
importance to these activities than did the borrower. In fact. given the
low priority MOR placed on software. it is likely that portions of the
credit allocated to training. IEC and homevisits would have made little or
no progress at all were it not for sustained efforts by supervisions
missions and PHN staff. What little the project did accomplish in software
was achieved during the credit's last two years. under intense pressure from
IDA.
6.11      There was some internal cricitism of supervision reports for being
unsympathetic to GOE views on the relative priorities of health and FP. and
of supervision teams for being insensitive to the cultural environment
within which the project had to operate. Such criticism does not seem to be
justified based on either the tone or content of correspondence in the
files. On the contrary. mIA seems to have bent over backwards to avoid
alienating MOH. with some possible cost in terms of borrower's performance.
6.12      Vozking Relationship.  The legacy of Populatidcn Project I included
a somewhat strained working relationship with MOH staff. However. despite
some difficulties during the early implementation phase. centering in
particular on procurement and reporting requirements. the working
relationships became quite cordial and cooperative over time, especially
after the replacement of the first PEDG. who had also been involved in
managing the first project.   Unfortunately. such goals as raising the
priority of FP or persuading GOE to undertake a third project, lay far



- 28 -
beyond the scope of even strong working relationships to accomplish. During
project lifetime Egypt became ineligible for further DA borrowing, and GOE
did not wish to borrow on World Bank terms for population projects.
6.13      Decisions to hzteud the Credit.  Credit 850-EGT was declared a
Problem Project in spring 1981. on the basis of persistent managerial and
other problems.   From then on,  the pace of implenentation varied.
accelerating in some areas in response to MDA prodding, effective MOH or
project leadership, and effective management assistance. However, it was
clear that MOH would need an additional two years to carry out the software
activities contemplated under the credit.
6.14      Consequently, in December 1983. IDA agreed to extend the credit
closing date by one year. with extension to a second year conditional on
acceptable performance in the first. The rationale for extension was the
seriousness of Egypt's population problem; the level of interest recently
shown by President Mobarak:  the need to help GOE optimize existing
infrastructure to obtain fertility reductions even if not as high as
originally expected; and the possibility of identifying other institutions
to fulfill project objectives. The MOH prepared an action plan to improve
project execution, agreed with the Bank after revision in April 1984.
6.15      IDA's willingness to extend the credit. despite borrower's failure
fully to meet performance requirements. was eminently sensible in view of
the urgent nature of Egypt's population problem. and the long-term nature of
the political, behavioral. educational and administrative changes required
for institutionalizing an effective family planning program.
6.16      Decision to Close the Credit.  In November 1985, IDA advised GOB
of its willingness to consider another extension of the Credit, upon receipt
of a restructured action plan.  Despite assistance from a supervision
mission to produce such a plan, the one GOE eventually submitted was deemed
"completely inadequate for the achievement of population objectives and only
a means to spend undisbursed funds."
6.17      Nevertheless, wishing to allow Egyptian authorities additional
time to again reformulate its proposals, IDA postponed the Credit closing
date a third time, to March 31, 1986.
6.18      The final proposals submitted by MOH still failed to address the
credit's primazy objective of fertility reduction. Accordingly, after much
internal debate. IDA closed the credit on March 31. 1986, on the grounds
that:   (i) there were no national institutions capable of implementing a
project that would succeed in reducing the population growth rate: (ii) the
MOH proposals indicated lack of serious commitment to credit objectives; and
(iii) the project organization, not very effective during the life of the
project. was in the process of disappearing.
6.19      It is probably too early to assess the ultimate effect of the
Credit's closing on IDA's long-term goals of building Egyptian commitment
and capacity in the family planning field. Closing of the Credit in effect



- 29 -
terminated the IDA-MOH dialogue on population strategy for some time to
come. and weakened prospects for institutionalizing at least some aspects of
a strengthened family planning program along the lines suggested by PHN
staff immediately before termination. On the other hand. some IDA staff and
officials of other funding agencies believe that in terminating the Credit,
IDA performed a valuable service by setting limits to donor toleration of
poor program performance.
6.20      In any case, it is difficult to identify any alternative means by
which IDA could have reconciled the goals of the credit with the Borrower's
own objectives and intentions at the time of termination. IDA gave MOR many
opportunities to readjust its course in order to win a further extension,
stated its willingness to reprogram undisbursed funds to other agencies.
directly assisted the project office to meet the terms of extension. and
even kept alive the possibility of financing a third population project if
the GOB so requested. Nevertheless. MOH repeatedly failed to demonstrate
either the capabiiity or desire to continue pursuing credit objectives, nor
would it allow other agencies to use credit funds for such purposes.
Finally. no other agencies. including the newly formed National Population
Council, demonstrated the required ability or motivation. In summary. IDA's
closing of Credit 850-EGT was regrettable but reasonable under the
circumstances.
VII. CONCSVSIONS
7.01      The project's long-term goal of reducing fertility depended
heavily on institutionalizing an effective family planning services program.
Although some progress was achieved in the areas of management, information
monitoring. project-specific training. production of IEC materials, and
construction of health facilities. there was a shortfall in the critical
service delivery activities.   Health workers and home visitors received
training. but of a quality inadequate to produce requisite levels of
performance. While the mix of contraceptives and the logistics of delivery
received little attention in the project. the inadequacy of MOH supply
systems  also  limited service effectiveness.   Through its outreach
activities. this project tried to go beyond the first project's heavy
reliance on fixed health facilities for the provision of family planning
services. However, even with more adequate skill development and better
logistics. the low priority of MOH and physician commitment to family
planning within the total health package would have made an effective
service delivery system unlikely within the project's lifetime.
7.02      As for the project's health goals. the credit contributed to the
expansion of services through the construction and staffing of more than 45
RHU's. To a limited extent. the project's home visiting activities
motivated families to visit existing and new centers. thereby increasing the
volume of service delivery. Educational materials on MCH issues. developed
and disseminated witF project funds, encourage increased emphasis on
Preventive rather than curative health care.



- 30 -
7.03      It is important to distinguish the use of IDA leverage to generate
borrower compliance, from the building of strong commitment.  It has been
clear for many years that GOB, though concerned with population problems.
did not accord them the same level of priority given by IDA. In hindsight.
it appears that IDA relied too heavily on assurances of commitment from
high-level GOE officials.  In reality. Egyptian willingness to accept IDA
credits for family planning projects did not represent either the degree or
the continuity of commitment required to institutionalize effective family
planning services. Therefore. an important lesson learned is that planners
of future population projects should give careful attention to strengthening
and maintaining a commitment to family planning on the part of officials
below the top echelons of the implementing agency. and officials at the
governorate level as well.  In the absence of such commitment. there are
clear limits to what can be accomplished with even the most careful and
competent supervision.
7.04      Project experience also emphasizes the importance of starting with
a small but solid base. rather than trying to implement projects of larger'
scope - however urgent the apparent need. Under the circumstances. MOH's
best efforts resulted in the neglect of other project activities. in
contradiction of Credit terms.   Had this project been limited to fewer
governorates. included fewer activities. and permitted more intensive
efforts with those remaining. it might have come closer to achieving the
critical performance levels necessary for effectiveness and permanence.
albeit on a small scale.   Staff should aim at the optimum size of each
project to be determined on its probability for successful implementation.
7.05      Negative conclusions should be tempered by recognition that the
institution-building effort. of which both projects are a part. requires far
more time than originally contemplated.  Without question. the Second
Population Project operated in an exceedingly difficult environment. in view
of the limited priority that the borrower placed first. on the overall goal
of fertility reduction and. second. on family planning as a central means of
achieving that goal. IDA acknowledged from the start that the uneven nature
of MOR commitment was a major risk. Moreover. despite the disappointing
project performance compared with appraisal estimates. it does appear that
both the extent of GOE awareness of family planning needs. and MOH capacity
to meet those needs, were somewhat enhanced through the project.
7.06      IDA's closing of Credit 850-BGT was regrettable but reasonable
under the circumstances. It is difficult to identify any alternative means
by which IDA could have reconciled the goals of the credit with the
Borrower's own objectives and intentions at the time of termination. IDA
gave MOH many opportunities to readjust its course in order to win a further
extension, stated its willingness to reprogram undisbursed funds to other
agencies. directly assisted the project office to meet the terms of
extension. and even kept alive the possibility of financing a third
population project if the GOE so requested. Nevertheless. MOH repeatedly
failed to demonstrate either the capability or desire to continue pursuing
credit objectives. nor would it allow other agencies to use credit funds for
such purposes.   Finally. no other agencies. including the newly formed



- 31 -
National Population Council, had demonstrated the requisite ability or
motivation. either.
7.07      Future Lending for Population in Bgypt.  It is unfortunate that,
before a third project could be developed and approved, Egypt lost
eligibility for further IDA borrowing. The critical importance of family
planning to the entire Egyptian development effort, and the current
unwillingness of GOE to borrow on IBRD terms for family planning, makes
continued dialogue on family planning difficult but of high priority. The
termination of this credit should not be allowed to foreclose World Bank
involvement in Egypt's population sector. The Bank should explore ways of
helping Egypt reduce its population growth that include but are not limited
to the MOH and. in particular, that include private agencies and
governorate-level entities. Unless Bank staff can persuade GOE to include
population projects in the overall country borrowing program, even the
lirited achievements of the earlier credits will be lost. More importantly.
Egyptian population growth is likely to nullify possibilities for raising
living standards in Egypt.
7.08      Preliminary information from GOE's Vital Registration System
indicates that the rate of population growth was increasing during the
period 1974-84. This rise, despite an increase in the prevalence rate for
contraception from 26.5% to 30.3Z during this same period, is attributed to
an increase in the proportion of women of childbearing age in the
population. A continuation of present demographic trends would imply a
doubling of the population to 98 million by the year 2010. In other words,
Egypt's population problem will continue to present major obstacles to
economic development for the foreseeable future.
7.09      In this context, it is essential that the termination of this
particular project not foreclose future World Bank involvement in Egypt's
population sector. The Bank has a crucial role in bringing a consciousness
to GOE officials and the Egyptian people about the economic implication and
the country's absorptive capacity to accomodate a doubling of the population
by the year 2010.  In addition, the Bank should stress the importance it
places on population growth problems by strengthening further the priority
it currently places on lending for the population sector.



- 32-                            Table-
scOl  PoPUAI PRucr -  CIT 850-MT
PRxBCr CMPLm  ucri
Home Viwitors Employed for the Outreach Program
Date on Board                       Motivators   Nurses   Dayss        TOTAL
APPRAISED TARGUT:                                                      10.500
REvISED TAUR! (1980):                                                   5.300
ACTUAL ON BOARD BY:
April 1981                           400        2.270       727       3.397
September 1981                      489         1.593      na.s       2.082
December 1981                      1.651        1.744       n.a.      3.395
January 1983                        752         1,927       224       2.903
September 1983                      773         2,145      598        3,516
February 1984                       663         1,911       327       2,901
September 1984                      593         1.893      590        3.076
March 1985                           475        1.840       598       2.913
*   Dayas. or traditional midwives, were recruited in the Quena governorate
only, with very high turnover.
0* The data reported varied in reliability and validity from one
governorate to another. Fluctuations in numbers reflect staff turnover
in rural healtb units and the gradual abandonment of the non-health
personnel motivator program.



33 -                     Table 2
Efrr
8CM  POPUJATIW PRiu =  -  CRE     850-ur
PROC  COaNWION RUM=
Actual and Aareed Production of IFC Materials
Agreed                         Actual                               Actual as
Z of
Agreed
16 Film  (30-minute)           8 Films (not distributed)               502
40 Films (2-minute)            -
24 Slide Programs              1 Slide Program                          4%
20 Filmstrip Programs          -
40 Transparency Programs       -
24 Cassette Tape Programs      -
2 Albums
50 Radio Doctor, question & answer
sessions on MCH and family planning
6 Radio Soap Operas (30 episodes)
16 Theme Posters               5 Theme Posters                         31%
1 Postcard
2 Ramadan Calendars
2 Vaccination Cards
16 Theme Booklets             14 Theme Booklets                        87%
10 Articles in "Family Doctor" Magaz.
3 Articles in Syndicate Magazines
2 Articles in Nursing Syndicate Magaz.
1 Article in "October" Magazine
3 Articles in "Your Doctor" Magazine
3 Supplements to "Family Planning" Magaz.
20 Theme Leaflets              7 Leaflets                              35Z
8 Stickers
2 Plipcharts



- 34 -
Table 3
-NO POPMLATION PRWDC! - CRUIT 850-ET
133E mam 3RCS 5
:Rjr  CCPWG  RP
Summary of Appraised and Actual Project Costs
(US$ MILLIONS)
Expenditure Category           -Appraised-             -  -Actual Estimate---                 Actual
Estimate     %         ODA 1/  IDA 2/ GOR      Total   2    as S of
-           -           ----   -   Appraised
1. Civil Works                  12.14      202         1.15    6.18   7.80    15.13  44X        1252
2. Furniture, Equipment.
and Materials                7.72      13%        3.76    5.44   0.09       9.29  272       120Z
3. Vehicles                      7.74      13%          3/     3.86   0.10      3.96  122        512
4. Professional Feeds and
Technical Assistance         2.99       52        0.03    0.73   0.07       0.83   22        282
5. Incremental Staff            13.98      232          -      0.60   3.25      3.85  112        28S
Salaries
6. Other Operating Costs        13.12      222         -        -     1.00      1.00   32         82
7. Innovative Activities         2.62       42          -      0.12   0.12      0.24   12         9S
5. PPF                           (0.37)4/                      0.06             0.06   0         162
TOTWL                 60.31     100        4.94    16.99  12.43    34.36   100
1.  Assuming for all expenditures during a year the same rate of exchange between L and LE
as the actual rate of exchange for expenditures expressed in the two currencies during
that year.
2. Assuming constant rate of exchange of US$1.0G0.7LE.
3. Included in above category for furniture. equipment. and materials.
4. The amount allocated to PPF activities was distributed in the above categories.



- 35 -
Table 4
SRm  POPMATIN nRBr -  d XT 850-uGr
PrW   CaMLrI RZPORr
Appraised and Actual Schedule of Disbursements
(USS MILLIONS)
Fiscal        ----CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
Year         Appraised Estimates               Actual             Actual as
and                                 -                                  of
Quarter         Amount    Percent          Amount    Percent         Appraised
1979:  1           -
2         0.30       1%               0          0              0
3         0.80       3%             0.05         0              61
4         1.36       5%             0.06         0              51
1980:  1          2.05       8%             0.06         0              31
2         2.95      12%             0.06         0              2%
3         4.10      16%             0.06         0              21
4         5.45      22%             0.07         0              1%
1981:  1          7.12      281             1.20         5%            171
2         9.08      361             1.90         8%            211
3        11.26      45%             4.09        161            361
4        13.57      54%             8.12        321            601
1982:  1         15.71     631              9.55       38%             611
2        17.69      711            10.46        422            591
3        19.50      78%            10.90        442            56%
4        21.13      851            11.85        47%            561
1983:  1         22.55     90%             12.75       511             571
2        23.61      94%            12.96        52%            552
3        24.45      981            13.&3        53%            541
4        25.00      100            13.33        531            531
1984:  1                                   13.37       531
2                                  13.67        54%
3                                  14.46        571
4                                  14.97        601
1985s  1                                   15.00       601
2                                  15.30        611
3                                  15.40        62%
4                                  15.57        62%
1986:  1                                   15.47       622
2                                  15.65        631
3                                  16.61        66%
4                                  16.61        661
1987:  1                                   16.99       68%



a                                      3
%9
t                           ~~~~t_
2
A



- 37 -                     ANE
Telex from the Borrower
JUS011- 7JT573 IN 30/03?4H OIUT ;40/03;tI?
94006 UIRAH UN
30/11/847. VAI-116.           I.
ATTN: "IR . GONALDOON
THANK YOll VERY  MUCH FOR IHE REPOIR 1WF 2ND POPIILAlIION PRO.JECT. 3
FULLY AORE&. ABOtUT TH£E CONTENT XNCLUDXNu rHE L.HSIONS LEARNED FROM
THXI EXPERIENCE r HOWEVERv X AM SURE YOUl ARE AWARE OF THE
GREAT EFFORT WHICH I DXD XN C:OL.LABORATION WXTH THE MENDERS OIF THE
MX8SXIN Ttl. SAVE THE 8 MILLION 1  DO1.LARS WHNICH WE TERRIBI.Y NEED
FOR FAMILY PLANNXNG.
THE EXHIMNS1ER OIF HEAI'TH WAS RESPONUABIOX FOR THIS LOSS.
AS A SECRETARY GENERAL. oF rHE NArIONAl. POPULATON CO:UNCIL UNDER
THE C:HAJRMANSHIP OF H.E.tHE PRESIDENT OF EGYPT. I EXPRESS MY GkEAT
INTEREST rO (:0-OPERATE WXTH THt. BANK XN THE FXEL.O OF FAMILY PLANNXNG
-WHICH 1H A MATTER OF LIFE OR DAINH TO FOYPT.
RODS.
PROF  MAHER MAHRAN



AI                                   0                                                                                             I CAIRO                   5,084,453
M1.0a        'z                   g       e                                                  -->  2ntoro  <        6 ALEXANDRIA              2.318.555
~~  *~~~  7      .  ~~~~~~S~~-'~~~~'          EIA~~~~~oh ~~3PORT.SAD                             252A55
SRI,MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BlMooso ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 suEz                                                              194.00I
II~~~~~oSISoro~~~~~~~~~~~  ElOoolora ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 ISMAILIYA                                                  251,8119
U~~~\U                    s                                 o a   o/  K L=H_
o                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 DAKAIHLIYA  Z.722755
24                         K                                                                                                                S :ISARKIYA             2.521208
Ilof,  oool ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o~~~~-'o                                .. ~~~~~~~~~ 9OALIUBIYA               11,874.806
10 KAFRLS,Z E -SIKHI       1.402,388
.,.........G 1 24                                                         ARRUHA               2.294.302
12 MEN4OUFIYA              1.710,98
13 SEHEIRA .M2,2A04
4 rizA                     2.419,247
-30*                                                                                                                                     15 -ENSEF -.15i,515
16FAVOUM                   1.14m24
1 7MINIA                   2.G05.739
IAS SIUT                  1.695.32
1 9SOUHAG                  1.924,960
20 CINA       '            1705,5114
21 As'AN                     615.632
22 RED-EA                    56.191
25                    23 EL-WADI ELOEDID      K      S,h1
24 mATRouHF                  1127712
25 SINAI                      10.154
/  Abo.f k                                                     ; \            w-  F                   1    1~~~~Au Z.,.
S.. S..F>S                                                                              s 
TOTAL            3556.N85
Po uloolon Project II
Physical FacilOdes by Selected
Govemnortes end DisriES
RHU MCHCE TC
/   wh   ^   ' f  @                                                     e  Kdr~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ El Shr& b  I 
20                                    /                                +                         t1          *                           c  AJEadnihinX          2
25                                                                                            9  DALIURIVA               5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 1
af  D  lob              I
,)                   Anw tt1   f.                                          e ~~~~      ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ahu Sd2
d10 |A bR  E L.SHIK ,      10 2        1
fQBfib            I~1 
fEl Khk.                2
a ~ ~      ~            ~            ~            ~            ~           ~           lez                         5    2 Tt1at    w< S /     1         wbit
ARAB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REPBLI OFEYT   
|Ceid smb               I
d2w e iKh.              I
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ef 5,0-1,0                                                   amft Clrc  \        1  rnn 
Z_  I,001- 5,000 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oh Er
A          %                                          FJ~~~~~UIU0      S-n,1ao   ( ¶dn
I   GZAl IIo12   1t -lno
Populalon  Densiotyby G overnor ate                                                                      20undrDENsa ,B                     2
(Censue Dsirc 1976)    rie                                  --                                                   ABKTI 2<~~C   ._
Moin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                             NMoIrIO.AO p         2t!_
C  DAIe Sdaf            1
10,001- 20,000s                                                ASWAN DAM   Asdf  LORrlEr                                  -
I KiMers pA., , .                                                                                   bmeo. °' ,              I r
c                 T.,001- 10,000                                                                                         dMt,a CI.  24  C9 AroREl
fAs Moe
0    20   40   6 Less 11500                                                                                              230  SL-WOS(f    lMA0bAfl  _ 1t        -_ 1
ARAB'MREkSPUBL|       PBIC OFU EGYPTA ht  aw.
Popu      pronDenimty bGoversra endorates2                                             lN     Cit                20      KIMNA   tlIwoI
~~~             -.    ~~~~~~~                  -,~D h 
Pem   p iers K.2                                                                                              -                                -h.INdAUUI
1,001- 5,000                                                                                  h .- 
400 - 1,000                                                                                  23  E-IWAI E-E         - -        -
2 40    App   m    SO I3vrnrt BondOFs                                                                                                                       1, 0E%-
MILES  P1<-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAI



