,,Eil, gm Y amDocument of
FILE COPY                              The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2364-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
September 19, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Official Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$2.56 or SDR 2.118
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.391
Parallel Market Rate
Until February 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                =                  USR1.70
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.59
From February to May 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.56
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.64
From May 21, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.47
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.68
From December 1, 1976:
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                                   US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                             LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
List of Abbreviations
EFPA    Egyptian Family Planning Association
GODE    Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt
IEC     Information, Education and Communications
MCH     Maternal and Child Health
PFPB    Population and Family Planning Board
ODM     Ministry of Overseas Development (United Kingdom)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Arab Republic of Egypt.
Amount:              US$25 million equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Project
Description:       The project would improve provision of family planning
and maternal and child health services, and encourage an
expanded use of such services, concentrating particularly
on the Governorates of Giza, Qalubia, Qena, Minya, El-Wadi
El-Gedid, and Kafr-El-Sheik, and two districts of Cairo
Governorate, covering about 25 percent of Egypt's popula-
tion. Components would include:
(a) Improvement of information, education, and com-
munication activities;
(b) Establishment of a program for home visiting;
(c) Improvement of training of health personnel and
community leaders in MCH and family planning;
(d) Strengthening of the network of health facilities
in the Project Governorates;
(e) Research and development in health and population
matters;
(f) Support for the Egyptian Family Planning Association
(this component is to be financed by the Ministry of
Overseas Development of the UK (ODM)); and
(g) Innovative activities.
Besides contributing to the achievement of the Government's
demographic targets, the project would yield substantial
health benefits, especially for women and children in the
Project Governorates. Special risks facing the project
would include possible difficulties in securing: (a)
close cooperation and coordination among participating
agencies; and (b) a timely flow of local funds for project
activities. These are being addressed through project
covenants and local cost financing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                              US$ Million             Percentage
Local  Foreign  Total   Forelgn Exchange
1. Information, Education and
Communication                     1.6     2.5       4.1            61
2.  Home Visiting Program               8.8      0.9       9.7            9
3.  Training                            5.9      2.3       8.2           27
4. Health Service Delivery
Intensification                   6.9     8.2      15.1            54
5.  Research and Evaluation             1.7      0.4       2.1           19
6. Egyptian Family Planning
Association (EFPA)                0.2     0.4       0.6            67
7.  Innovative Activities               1.0      0.9       1.9           50
8.  Project Management                  0.2      0.3       0.5           67
Subtotal                           26.3    15.9      42.2            38
9.  Physical Contingencies              1.0      0.9       1.9
10. Price Contingencies                12.1      4.1      16.2
TOTAL                                  39.4    20.9       60.3           35
Financing Plan:                            US$ Million               Percentage of
Local     Foreign       Total   Total Financing
IDA                      8.6       16.4         25.0           42
ODM                      3.5        4.5          8.0           13
Government              27.3         -          27.3           45
Total                39.4       20.9          60.3          100
Estimated
Disbursements:                                  US$ Million
Bank FY   79 /1    80       81      82     83
Annual                  1.1      7.0    9.6    5.4    1.9
Cumulative              1.1     8.1   17.7   23.1   25.0
/1 Includes reimbursement of up to US$371,000 of
advance from Project Preparation Facility.
Rate of Return: Not quantifiable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2073-EGT of August 14, 1978
Population Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT FOR A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for the equivalent of US$25 million to the Arab Republic
of Egypt to finance part of the foreign exchange and local costs of a Second
Population Project. The development credit would be made on standard IDA
terms. The project will be cofinanced with the Ministry of Overseas Develop-
ment of the United Kingdom, which is expected to make a grant approximately
equal to $8 million to the Government of Egypt.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Arab Republic of Egypt:  Economic
Management in a Period of Transition" (No. 1815-EGT), and dated May 8, 1978,
has been distributed to the Executive Directors in six volumes. The report
was based on the findings of a basic economic mission which visited Egypt in
May/June 1976, as updated by a series of missions, the latest of which took
place in January 1978. A report on Recent Economic Development and External
Capital Requirements (No. 2071-EGT), prepared for the June 14-16 meeting of
the Consultative Group, was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        From 1960 to 1966 Egypt experienced rapid growth (around 6 percent a
year in real terms) under fairly rigid centralized planning and control. This
system came under increasing pressure in the second half of the decade follow-
ing bad harvests and increased defense expenditures, particularly as a result
of the civil war in Yemen. It deteriorated further after the war of 1967,
with the loss of the Sinai oil fields, the closure of the Suez Canal, the
abandonment of the Canal cities and the cost of resettling the population of
about a million, and the virtual cessation of Western economic assistance.
With the continuing military confrontation in the Middle East, Egypt further
increased defense spending at the expense of other types of consumption and
of its development program. Thus, in 1973 the economic picture was one of
rigorously curtailed private consumption and inadequate investment, with a
deteriorating capital stock of infrastructure and productive facilities.
Real GDP growth for 1967-73 averaged only 3.5 percent a year.
1/   Apart from paragraphs 16, 19 and 27, which have been updated, and para-
graph 32, which is new, Part I of this report is identical to Part I
of the recent President's Report No. P-2294-EGT for the Agriculture
Development Project, distributed to the Executive Directors on June 14,
1978.



-2-
4.        The changed political situation after October 1973 laid the ground-
work for a new "open-door" policy enunciated by President Sadat anid-approved
in a national referendum in May 1974. This policy reflects a major effort to
accelerate economic development through modernization and making Egypt's
largely publicly owned and centrally controlled economy more market-oriented.
Specifically, the policy envisages (i) decentralization of decision-making in
state-owned enterprises; (ii) liberalization of the private sector; (iii) in-
centives for private foreign investment; and (iv) expanded economic coopera-
tion with Arab countries. Since 1974 Egypt has initiated a number of steps
towards restructuring the economy. In particular, steps have been taken to
remove some of the restrictions on private business activities, to decentralize
public enterprise management, to encourage foreign private investment, to
expand foreign exchange transactions outside the official rate, and to loosen
many of the restraints on banking activities.
5.        Substantial inflows of external assistance from both Arab countries
and Western aid donors and institutions have eased some of the problems of the
Egyptian economy in making the transition. However, major structural diffi-
culties remain, largely due to the continuing tension in the region and the
neglect of investment. These structural difficulties are linked to the major
weaknesses of the economy: the rapid increase in the population, slow growth
in agriculture, the large deficit in the balance of payments, the low level of
government savings, and low efficiency in the public sector.
6.        In November 1976, following elections to the People's Assembly,
which were the first in which a choice of candidates representing diverse
political views was offered to the voters, a new government was formed which
included a team of economic ministers headed by a Deputy Prime Minister.
President Sadat directed that economic questions should be in the forefront
of the new Cabinet's tasks. This team succeeded in considerably strengthening
Egypt's economic management and financial position. The position of Deputy
Prime Minister for Financial and Economic Affairs was eliminated in a minor
Cabinet reshuffle in May 1978. The other members of the economic team remain.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        Growth in National Income.  Real growth in GDP (1975 prices) in-
creased from 3.2 percent in 1974, to 9.8 percent in 1975, and 6.1 percent in
1976. The growth rate in 1977 is not yet available, but preliminary indica-
tions are that it was high. The more rapid growth after 1974 is attributed
largely to the recovery of industrial activity through the provision of
greater aid-financed inputs, increased petroleum production and construction
(particularly in the Canal Zone), and growth of trade and services.
8.        Investment.  Egypt was able to sustain a higher level of investment
during 1974 and 1975, largely as a result of generous external assistance from
Arab countries. Gross investment increased from $1,373 million in 1973 to
$2,867 million in 1975 (in 1975 prices). This included a considerable replen-
ishment of stocks, which had been drawn down in the pre-October 1973 period.
During 1976, as a result of shortages of both domestic and foreign resources,
investment is estimated at only about $2,300 million (1975 prices).



- 3 -
9.        Income Distribution.  It is estimated that in 1974/75, the lowest
40 percent of the household income distribution in both rural and urban areas
accounted for about 16 percent of income originating in the respective sector.
The income distribution per person was more egalitarian, with the distribution
in rural areas being somewhat more equitable than its urban counterpart, but
at a lower average income level. In the rural areas, those in the lowest 40
percent of the personal income distribution accounted for about 25 percent of
total incomes in that sector, compared with about 21 percent for the urban
areas; however, the average annual income in the rural areas was about $166,
while in urban areas it was $327.
10.       Public Finance.  Because of the size of the public sector, the bulk
of Egypt's domestic financial resources for development is mobilized through
the state budget and public sector corporations. Considerable efforts have
been made in the past to increase such resources, largely by way of taxation;
for example in 1976, tax revenues were 22 percent of GNP. Total public reve-
nues reached 41 percent of GNP, a major effort for a country of Egypt's low
per capita income.
11.       The high level of Government current expenditures, however, absorbed
most of these resources. This was almost entirely due to the level of defense
expenditures, and, more recently, to the growth of subsidies, which increased
from $480 million (about 5 percent of GNP) in 1973 to $1,415 1/ million (about
10 percent of GNP) in 1976, as the Government endeavored to protect consumers
from the sharp increases in the import prices of foodstuffs and other essential
commodities. Exact data on defense spending are not available, since a large
portion is channelled through a separate account, partly foreign financed--the
Emergency Fund.
12.       Credit expansion in 1976 was 19 percent, a much smaller increase
than the 44 percent registered in 1975. Credit policy was more restrictive
and the credit needs of public sector companies were reduced because of a
running down of inventories and a decline in import commitments. Money and
quasi-money expanded by 26 percent compared with 21 percent in 1975. The
official consumer price index for the urban population estimated the price
rise in 1976 at 10 percent, but the actual rate was probably much higher.
Indications are that the rate of inflation in 1977 remained high.
13.       Balance of Payments.  Despite an increase in the value of commodity
exports from $1,003 million to $1,612 million between 1973 and 1976, export
earnings fell well short of imports, which rose from $1,664 million to $4,214
million. Indeed the country's import bill almost tripled in this period due
to increases in quantities imported, and soaring food and other prices.  The
imbalance in Egypt's trade was compensated to some extent by fast-growing
earnings from services and from workers' remittances; the latter rose from
$205 million in 1974 to $757 million 1/ in 1976. Nevertheless, the overall
1/   Including direct subsidies and public economic sector deficits.
2/   Including the financing for "own exchange" imports.



- 4 -
deficit on the trade and services account reached $1,518 million in 1976,
increasing from $654 million in 1973.
14.       Balance of Payments estimates for 1977 are still provisional.
The indications are that imports will be about $5.4 billion, while exports
are put at around $2.2 billion. A surplus of $1.6 billion is expected
on the services account (where the main contributor is workers remiittances,
estimated at $1.4 billion); the current account deficit is thus estimated
at about $1.6 billion.
15.       The large deficits on the goods and services account in 1973-1977
were met mainly through assistance from Arab countries, Iran and the United
States. The Arab support comprised grants as well as loans, and deposits in
the Central Bank of Egypt. However, in 1973 and 1974 the deficit was also
met by substantial short-term borrowing, including the use of banking facili-
ties. The Government has taken action in 1977 to drastically reduce reliance
on such financing (see also paragraph 29).
Development Problems and Prospects
16.       Egypt's rapidly growing population, widespread poverty and dilapi-
dated infrastructure require the generation of more resources for investment
and a more rigorous determination of the priorities into which they are
channelled. In turn, this implies: (i) greater restraint on the growth of
consumption; (ii) the removal of constraints created by inadequate infrastruc-
ture (particularly ports, power, transport and telecommunications); (iii)
greater emphasis on quick-yielding projects; (iv) more emphasis on completing
ongoing projects than on starting new ones; (v) more active use of prices
(including the price of foreign exchange) as indicators of relative scarcities;
(vi) streamlining bureaucratic processes; (vii) a vigorous move towards
increasing industry's efficiency and making it more export-oriented and
employment-generating (which would involve using existing industrial capacity
more fully, paying more attention to considerations of quality, and encourag-
ing small-scale industry); and (viii) a strengthened program to curb the
growth of population and the articulation of urban and rural strategies
which would decentralize the growth of the urban population away from Cairo
and Alexandria and create more productive opportunities in smaller towns and
the rural areas. These issues will be addressed in the context of a medium-
term plan. The first year of the Plan was approved by the Parliament in
January, followed by approval of the entire Plan in June 1978.
17.       Over the long-run, Egypt's economic potential is considerable.  The
reasons for this are, in brief: (i) the country has a large domestic market, a
proficient population, low wages, varied raw materials, and a key geographical
location, which makes it a natural base for industries that wish to supply
the growing regional market; (ii) Suez Canal revenues are estimated to con-
tinue to rise gradually until the Canal expansion program is completed in
about 1980--there is then likely to be a substantial increase; (iii) pros-
pects for oil production, which are put at one million barrels a day by 1982,



- 5 -
substantially exceed domestic requirements; (iv) considerably increased
earnings from tourism--these reached an estimated $398 million in 1976; and
(v) an increasing flow of remittances ($757 million in 1976) from Egyptians
working abroad. 1/
18.       However, Egypt's long-term potential also hinges upon a number of
factors outside its own control. The most important is a movement towards an
equitable and definitive peace settlement in the Middle East. Moreover, Egypt
requires the transfer of large amounts of capital from abroad; this, in turn,
must be preceded by preparation of a suitable portfolio of projects to which
potential investors, whether private or official, foreign or domestic, can
contribute. Finally, it requires fundamental changes in economic policies
and institutions. Hence, it will probably take at least 5-10 years to achieve
a significant restructuring of the economy.
19.       Recent Policy Actions.  Beginning in 1976, the Government, in close
consultation with the Bank and the IMF, began to undertake a series of policy
actions aimed at making more effective use of foreign resources, curbing
excess consumption, and improving allocative efficiency. Thus (i) the
parallel exchange market has been successively widened to comprise all exports
except raw cotton, rice and petroleum and Suez Canal revenues, and all imports
except basic mass consumption commodities; (ii) the parallel market rate
itself was further depreciated to about 56 percent of the official rate; (iii)
the attractiveness of the parallel market was increased by establishing a list
of items which may be imported through it without exchange restrictions; (iv)
parallel market imports were valued for customs duties at the parallel market
exchange rate (a measure equivalent to an increase of about 80 percent in the
tariff on applicable imports); (v) ceilings on interest rates were removed and
interest rates increased; (vi) the "general organizations" that exercised
rigid control over public industrial enterprises were dissolved and replaced
by "higher councils," which permit somewhat more initiative to the individual
enterprises; and (vii) in April 1977 the IMF approved a Stand-by arrangement
for an amount of SDR 125 million (about $145 million) over a 12-month period.
In July 1978, the IMF approved a Government request for an arrangement under
the IMF's extended facility which would permit Egypt to make purchases from
the IMF over the next three years in a total amount equivalent to SDR 600
million (about $750 million).
20.       The Five-Year Plan (1978-82).  The 1978-82 Plan advocates a high
growth strategy spearheaded by an industrialization drive and supported by
increasing income from petroleum, the Suez Canal, and remittances from
Egyptians working abroad. In the context of the "open-door policy", the
domestic and foreign private sectors are expected to play an increasing role
in the development effort, although the public sector will retain its dominant
position.
1/   A substantial amount of remittances ($399 million in 1976) came in the
form of "own-exchange" imports, i.e. commodities financed by Egyptians
working abroad, and hence not involving a transfer of foreign exchange
from Egypt.



- 6 -
21.       Real output is projected to grow at 12 percent per annum.  This is
based both on a high level of investment and increased efficiency. The invest-
ment ratio is expected to increase from 20 percent in 1976 to 28 percent in
1982, and the incremental capital-output ratio is expected to average 2.5
during the Plan period.
22.       The Plan's investment allocations give primary emphasis to infra-
structure and industry. Thus, more than 50 percent of public investment is
designated for the various components of infrastructure, and around 30 per-
cent for industry and petroleum. Agriculture and irrigation are allocated
only 8.6 percent.
23.       The Five-Year Plan will be implemented through the mechanism of
Annual Plans, which will take account of the actual circumstances prevailing
at the time and modify the targets and the strategy in an appropriate manner.
The first such Annual Plan--that for 1978--has been approved. It aims at
a lower growth rate than implied by the 1978-82 Plan, and adopts a more
optimal strategy by allocating nearly 90 percent of investment to completing
or rehabilitating existing projects. However, the main targets of the Five-
Year Plan--for investment, growth, and the marginal rate of savings--remain
ambitious, and will probably require continued modification by subsequent
Annual Plans.
External Assistance
24.       In 1967 the substantial amounts of Western external aid which Egypt
had been receiving practically ceased, and up to 1974 service payments gen-
erally exceeded disbursements. During the period 1968-1973, non-military
aid from Eastern countries, estimated to have been in excess of $800 million,
financed the bulk of Egypt's development.
25.       Since 1973 the substantial deficits on the goods and services ac-
count have been financed primarily by official Arab grants, loans and deposits
with the Central Bank of Egypt. Commitments of Western medium- and long-term
(M&LT) capital assistance began to grow after October 1973, but because of the
slow disbursements inherent in the aid process, actual transfers began to
become substantial only from 1976.
26.       Among western aid donors, the US Government is currently committing
about $700 million of project and commodity aid per annum (in addition to about
$200 million of food assistance under US Law PL 480). Aid from the other OECD
countries, especially France, Germany and Japan, has remained at the increased
levels of 1974/75 (i.e., about $235 million per year). The European Community
is providing increasing amounts of food aid; moreover, in January 1977 the
Community signed a financial protocol with Egypt committing, over a five-year
period, $70 million in grants and $119 million in concessional loans.
27.       Consultative Group.  In July 1976, Egypt requested the Bank to set
up a Consultative Group comprising a number of oil-producing Arab countries,
Iran, major western countries and Japan, and leading international and regional
institutions, including the IMF. The first meeting of the Consultative Group



was held in Paris on May 11 and i , 1977. At the meeting, the major aid-
giving countries and institutions discussed the most important problems
confronting the Egyptian economy, its prospects over the next few years, and
its needs for external assistance. The delegates recognized that the struc-
tural changes undertaken by the Government would take a number of years to
complete. They felt that the Government was taking energetic steps towards
accelerating growth and expressed their support of the Government's statement
on its development strategy and of its efforts to direct future development
within the framework of an integrated plan. A second meeting of the Consulta-
tive Group was held in Paris from June 14 to 16, 1978. Estimates of the aid
requirements for 1978 are given in the report on Recent Economic Developments
and External Capital Requirements (No. 2071-EGT) referred to in paragraph 2
above. 'The indications are that if Egypt succeeds in implementing a substan-
tial development effort in 1978 and continues to reduce the use of banking
facilities, it will require gross external inflow in the neighborhood of $3.3
billion. Because of the already reduced use of banking facilities and the
greater effort expected from Egypt to mobilize its own foreign exchange
resources (e.g. through the use of development bonds) it is likely that the
cash aid requirements will decrease. However, commodity aid requirements will
remain important, both to meet the balance of payments gap and to generate
domestic resources.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.       Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term debt outstanding and dis-
bursed at December 31, 1977 was estimated at about $8 billion as compared with
$5,858 million at December 31, 1976. A large part of this increase repre-
sented the replacing of short-term (180 days) banking facilities, which had
led to serious liquidity problem, with loans of maturity of 10 years of more.
Of the total of about $8 billion, medium and long-term loans amounted to
$5,458 million (of which $730 million was in clearing currencies), medium- and
long-term deposits with the Central Bank to $1,938 million, and suppliers
credits to $640 million. Major creditors were Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, fol-
lowed by the USA, USSR and the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt
comprised about 3 percent of the total debt disbursed and outstanding. Debt
service on medium- and long-term debt was estimated to amount to $897 million
in 1976, giving a debt service ratio of 25 percent. 1/ No reliable estimates
of military debt are available; Egypt is still making efforts to obtain
rescheduling of service payments on such debt.
29.       Commercial bankers' credit facilities outstanding at December 31,
1977 were $1,131 million of which $556 million were disbursed as compared to
$2,123 million, of which $1,396 million were disbursed at December 31, 1976.
This type of external indebtedness created severe liquidity problems for Egypt
in 1976 when payments arrears were building up. These increased substan-
tially during the first half of 1977 but by the beginning of September 1977
1/   Ratio of amortization and interest on medium- and long-term (M and LT)
debt to foreign exchange earnings.



- 8 -
had all been cleared through receipt of $1,075 million under a cash loan from
the Gulf Organization for Development of Egypt (GODE) and the mobilization of
additional foreign exchange resources by Egypt, 1/ specifically $200 million
in 5-7 year Development Bonds.
30.       The Government's recent policy actions (discussed in paragraph
19 above) have initiated the structural adjustments required by Egypt's
economic situation and international environment.  The situation however,
requires continuing review and further action. At the Government's request,
the Bank has arranged to continue reviewing developments in the economy by
economic missions three or four times a year.
31.       If progress towards curbing the increase of both consumption expend-
itures and imports is maintained and the country's export earnings potential
realized, the deficit on the current account is estimated at about $2-2.4
billion per annum for the remainder of the decade. The required capital in-
flows are large--but if they are available on the terms expected, Egypt
would have the debt servicing capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged,
including a limited amount on harder terms. The burden of servicing medium-
and long-term debt as a percentage of total foreign exchange earnings is
estimated at 25 percent in 1976 and is expected to decline to 16 percent in
1980. It is then expected to rise again to about 20 percent in 1983, before
starting to decline to about 17 percent in 1986. In these circumstances Egypt
may be considered creditworthy for a limited amount of Bank lending in addition
to the IDA assistance which Egypt merits on the ground of its poverty and
difficult balance of payments position.
32.       Local Cost Financing.  Egypt's poverty level (GNP per capita in
1977 was $310) and tight budgetary situation make local cost financing appro-
priate. Considerable efforts have been made in recent years in Egypt to
increase public financial resources, largely through taxation, and public
revenues in 1976 were 41 percent of GNP. Although Government revenue is
expected to grow substantially during the period of the 1978-82 Plan, the
high level of Government current expenditures will continue to absorb a large
part of these resources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
33.       The proposed development credit would be the World Bank's thirty-
seventh lending operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments
made since 1970 to $1,133 million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans
and IDA credits as of August 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
1/   The remaining tranche of $650 million from GODE was diverted largely into
financing the import of an agreed list of commodities. By December 31,
1977 approximately $150 million had been disbursed.



- 9 -
34.       Given Egypt's basic structural problems:  pressure of population on
resources; lacking economic infrastructure; a large public sector constrained
by administrative fragmentation and a network of controls over investment,
production, distribution and prices; the rehabilitation needs of the economy;
significant balance of payments deficits and pressing demands for finding
resources, the Bank's response has been tailored to address, in a very
broad fashion and in close cooperation with other donors, these long-term
developmental issues. The necessary breadth of the Bank's contribution to
Egypt has dictated a strategy which involves entry into the whole spectrum
of sectors with a view to providing not only direct finance with the relatively
limited resources that the Bank/IDA can make available but, equally, to act as
a catalyst for other financing agencies, both bilateral and multilateral; to
act as a spur for initiating discussion and, hopefully, positive action on a
coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. This approach must also include delivery of technical
assistance not only for adequate implementation of specific investment programs
but for developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and
implement future policies and programs. The Bank's deliberately broad multi-
sectoral intervention has been differentiated by sectors and by the pace at
which the Egyptian authorities can address these issues.
35.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector receiving
the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention, is illustrative
of the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. It is the one sector which
has the capacity for creating employment opportunities which can meet the
demands of Egypt's growing population and limited agricultural land. However,
this sector is beset by a complex constellation of problems which stem largely
from the rigidity of centralized control and lack of management autonomy, the
distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives. In addition to efforts to
improve capacity utilization (Imports loans and credit Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062
and Ln. 1456) and to increase production capacity and supply of essential com-
modities in resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and
fertilizer projects), a more fundamental effort--embodied in these projects--
has been directed at introducing policy and structural improvements through
initiating six subsector studies in areas such as textiles, building materials,
pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, which
would provide the foundations for formulating a package of policy and invest-
ment proposals. To complement these efforts in basic industries the Bank has
also carried out a study on small-scale industries which we hope would form a
basis for Egyptian and our efforts in this area.
36.       The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
our intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted approach
that we have adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the Egyptian
economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with that the Egyptian
Government wants us to play but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function, which the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group, should fulfill. Preparation of projects for future
lending follows this strategy. A second education project, a tourism project
and a development finance project have been appraised. A pipeline of projects



- 10 -
for possible future lending is also being developed, including further projects
in water supply and sewerage, education, power, rural and urban development,
transportation, agriculture (including drainage), development finance and
industry.
37.       Bank Group disbursements continued in 1977 to represent less than
4 percent of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements. The Bank and IDA
shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 1 percent
and 2 percent, respectively at the end of 1977. For the future, the Bank and
IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed (excluding military
debts) are estimated to reach about 4 and 2.5 percent respectively in 1980.
It is estimated that in 1980, debt service payments due to the Bank and IDA
will represent about 3.5 percent and 0.2 percent, respectively of service pay-
ments due on Egypt's external debt.
38.       The first IFC participation and lending, for a ceramics project, was
approved by the Executive Directors in 1976, the second, for a ready-made
garment project, in 1977, and the third, a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet, in May 1978. IFC is also discussing several other
private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
39.       A detailed chapter on "Population Growth and Family Planning"
is included in the Basic Economic Report (1815-EGT), distributed May 1978.
As that report indicates, the most striking feature of Egypt's urban and rural
areas alike is that they are crowded. Cities and towns have high population
densities causing intense urban problems. The countryside is dotted with
closely spaced villages, many of a size that elsewhere would count as small
towns. The congestion is intensifying rapidly: Egypt's population is growing
by nearly one million annually, and has quadrupled in 80 years. The costs of
this growth may be difficult to quantify but are none the less real. Fast
population growth, and in particular, high birth rates, mean that demands on
the already inadequate education facilities and other infrastructure are even
more intense; that health, education, and living conditions are poorer; that
resources necessarily devoted to consumption and to social investment are
denied to productive investment; that balance of payments deficits are aggra-
vated by food imports in a country traditionally an agricultural exporter;
that the chronic underemployment is made worse; that there is a massive inflow
into the cities; and that pressure increases on Egypt's scarcest resource,
fertile land.
40.        The preliminary results of the 1976 census show a population of
about 38 million, including an estimated 1.4 million Egyptians abroad at the
census date. The population growth rate, which averaged 2.5 percent between
the census years 1960 and 1966, and 2.3 percent between 1966-76, is now about
2.5 percent. The crude birth rate fell from 41 per 1,000 population in 1966
to 34 in 1972, but has since risen, reaching 36 per 1,000 in 1975-76.  With a



- 11 -
falling death rate, the rate of natural increase of the population reversed its
downward trend around 1972, and by 1976 had surpassed the levels of the late
1960s.
41.       The most plausible explanation for the apparent reversal of fertility
trends is that at least part of the 1967-72 decline was due to the high lfv'l
of military mobilization and displacement of civilian population from the war
zones, and that since 1972 Egypt has been experiencing a "post-war baby boom".
Thus the rV^ent upturn in the birth rate may be a temporary phenomenon.  How-
ever, a rapid and continuing decline in the birth rate is not likely to be
achieved without a substantial modernization of Egyptian society, involving
such matters as increased basic female education 'and employment. It would in
addition require a great increase in the effectiveness of the family planning
program.
Population Policies and Institutions
42.       Attitudes to contraception in Egypt, at all levels, are mixed, run-
ning from total opposition to full acceptance. There is also wide variation
on questions such as family size, and preference for male children. Officially
Islamic leaders in Egypt support family planning, for health reasons. However,
some religious leaders continue to oppose it. Knowledge of family planning and
population questions is patchy throughout society. Sterilization, both male
and female, is legal and is available at some hospitals, but is not officially
promoted. Abortion is illegal.
43.       Egypt has had an official family planning program since 1965, when
a Supreme Council for Family Planning (an inter-ministerial body headed by the
Prime Minister) was established, together with an Executive Family Planning
Board to implement its decisions. The Ministry of Health's clinics were
designated the main official channels for family planning services and supply
of contraceptives, supervised by the Board. Also in 1966, the voluntary
associations were officially recognized, and the Egyptian Family Planning
Association (EFPA) was set up to coordinate them under the Ministry of Social
Affairs.
44.       The 1967 war severely curtailed the resources available for family
planning. In the early 1970s, however, efforts were renewed: the Council and
Board were reorganized and became the Supreme Council for Population and Family
Planning, and the Population and Family Planning Board (PFPB), respectively.
Policies were formulated of reducing the birth rate by about one per 1,000 each
year, using various socioeconomic development activities as well as provision
of family planning services. The PFPB became a policy-making body, with the
role of coordinating and stimulating action by other Ministries. Judging by
recent statistics, the program appears to have had little impact.
45.       In 1977, the Government made a renewed determination to reduce popu-
lation growth. The decision followed the reversal of the downward trend in
birth rates, and the expressions of concern about population growth at the
first meeting of the Consultative Group for Egypt, and in discussions between
the Bank and the Government. The Supreme Council was reactivated (including



- 12 -
as members under the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Health, Social Affairs
and Religious Affairs, and other relevant Ministers), and the Ministry of
Health gave new priority to provision of family planning services. The goal
of reduction in population growth of one per 1,000 per year was reconfirmed;
the Supreme Council is in process of developing an overall population strategy.
A Department of Family Planning was established in the Ministry of Health in
1977: this Department will be the basis for the present project. A corner-
stone of the Ministry's policy is the belief that fertility and maternal and
child health are closely interrelated, that family planning is more likely
to be accepted as an aid to spacing births for health reasons, and that reduc-
ing infant and child mortality will eventually bring parents to accept they do
not need many births to ensure an adequate number of survivors. The present
project manifests the Government's renewed determination, and has the capabil-
ity of making a substantial impact.
46.        The target of reducing the birth rate by one per thousand for five
years is in itself reasonable, although it would require firm action. If it
were attained between 1977 and 1982, and if there were then a continuing, if
slower decline, the population could achieve a net reproduction rate of 1.0 by
about the year 2005 (that is, when the level of births and deaths is such that
each woman has on average only one daughter who reaches childbearing age, which
would eventually produce a stable population). The population in 2000 would
reach about 60 million on these assumptions, which would be some 10 million
lower than if fertility remained at current levels. Such targets imply
approximately doubling contraceptive use in five years, and then a continuing
increase. Programs similar to those proposed under the present project would
need to be adopted nationwide. The Government intends to expand them, but they
would take time to build up and would require administrative machinery which
must be dependent on the experience gained under the project. Thus the level
of resources being committed to family planning, including those committed
under the project, while far lower than the seriousness of the problem re-
quires, is probably appropriate at the moment because a further substantial
increase could not be used satisfactorily. However, as experience is gained,
the program should and will be built up, requiring devotion of substantially
increased amounts of money and staff to fertility reduction activities.
Provision of Family Planning and Health Services
47.       Egypt has more health facilities than most developing countries,
and thus potentially its family planning and maternal and child health (MCH)
services can reach a large majority of the population. In urban areas health
centers each provide MCH services for between 50,000 and 100,000 population,
while family planning clinics attached to these or other Government health
facilities, together with the 450 clinics affiliated to the EFPA, and other
private clinics, serve on average urban populations of about 14,000. In rural
areas the 2,300 health units provide primary health care, MCH services, and
family planning to average populations of about 9,500. These facilities have
in general sufficient doctors and nursing staff. All family planning clinics
provide contraceptive pills and condoms, although only about one fourth of the
clinics provide IUD services. Pills and condoms are also distributed through
commercial pharmacies, and condoms through street vendors and other outlets.



- 13 -
48.       Yet both in rural and urban areas, the quantity and quality of MCH
and family planning services provided are inadequate. Especially in rural
areas, most deliveries are at home, attended only by traditional midwives
("dayas"). There are far fewer pre- and post-natal visits than desirable;
maternal and infant mortality is high. Contraceptive use is very low, espe-
cially in rural areas where only about eight percent of married women of
reproductive age use contraceptives. In towns the figure may reach 30 per-
cent, giving an overall average of 18 percent. Nearly 60 percent of those who
use contraceptives, use the pill (which is manufactured in Egypt from imported
materials).
49.       The weakness of the MCH and family planning programs has many causes.
Until recently the Ministry of Health did not stress family planning, and many
health clinics acted only as passive supply points, making no attempt to en-
courage contraceptive use. Doctors and nurses have little practical training
or interest in community medicine: rural clinics tend to be staffed by doctors
and nurses straight from college, who do not easily make contact with the
community. Their training in population questions and in contraception is
limited, and they receive inadequate supervision and support.
50.       The low contraceptive use also reflects social and religious inhibi-
tions. Political and religious leaders (with several notable exceptions) have
been slow to attempt to change the climate of opinion, for example through
public statements. Attempts to influence public opinion have until recently
lacked resources, and have been rather ineffective. The PFPB has recently met
with greater success in working with other relevant ministries: with its
assistance, the Ministry of Education has recently established a unit for
population education, which will concentrate on teacher training and produc-
tion of teaching materials for population questions. The Ministry's program
will be supported by a component of the Second IDA-supported Education Project,
proposed to be presented to the Executive Directors later in 1978. The PFPB
has also worked with agencies of the Ministries of Information and Culture in
developing radio, television and other programs, but resources have limited
their use.
51.       Other Donors.  Many overseas agencies have attempted to support
Egypt's population programs. The UN Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA)
has contributed heavily to the experimental programs of the PFPB, and its $10
million program for 1976-1980 is directed mainly towards pilot programs to
influence fertility indirectly through rural development. The International
Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) supports its affiliate the EFPA by con-
tributing to its operating costs. USAID supports a pilot project being carried
out through the American University in Cairo and the Ministry of Health, for
distribution of contraceptives in the Governorate of Menoufiya in the Delta,
which has shown good results; USAID and UNFPA also finance imports of contra-
ceptives and raw materials for pills. UNICEF has financed construction and
equipping of several health clinics.
First Population Project
52.       A credit of US$5.0 million was approved by the Executive Directors
on October 23, 1973, for a project to strengthen family planning activities



- 14 -
in the context of Egypt's new integrated health system. The project consisted
mainly of constructing, equipping and furnishing health facilities and training
centers, carrying out an experimental home visiting program, a study on family
planning acceptance, and development of a maintenance system for health facili-
ties and equipment. Because of substantial cost overruns, and because the
Government revised its health program, the credit agreement was amended after
approval of the Executive Directors on January 19, 1977 (IDA/R77-1), to reduce
by nearly two-thirds the number of health facilities (to 9 health centers, 4
polyclinics and 1 training center). Eight of the nine centers are now com-
pleted, staffed and in use. The other facilities are expected to open before
the end of 1978. Over $4 million of the credit has been disbursed, and the
rest committed. The lessons drawn from the home visiting program (which
is nearing completion, though with a reduced scope), contributed to develop-
ment of an expanded program in the proposed project. The Ministry of Health
is developing a comprehensive national system based on the health facilities
maintenance study. The report on family planning acceptors is near completion.
53.       The first project helped IDA to establish a meaningful dialogue with
the Egyptian Authorities on the population issue, especially with the Ministry
of Health, which has led to development of the proposed project. However,
its implementation has been troubled, and the reduction in its scope reduced
its direct benefits. It suffered from undue delay in appointment of key staff,
shortage of local funds, administrative problems, difficulties in procurement,
and a general lack of commitment on the part of those responsible for leader-
ship. To these were added the substantial increase in building costs in Egypt
(about 300 percent between 1973-76) and in import prices, which led to the
reduction in scope of the project. However, since late 1976, implementation
has considerably improved.
IV. THE PROJECT
54.       Even at the time of preparation and negotiation of the first Popula-
tion Project, in 1973, it had been generally accepted by the Government and
the Ministry of Health that there would be a second population project in
support of the Ministry of Health's family planning program, drawing from
experience under the first project. However, it took longer to develop
and prepare than had been hoped. This was due largely to the difficulties
experienced with the first project and to the ensuing need for discussions
between the Bank and the Authorities. Under the initiative of the then newly
appointed Minister of Health, the Government made a request for a credit
for such a project in December 1976; preparation (by the Ministry of Health,
aided by Egyptian consultants) began in December 1976 and was completed in
February 1978. The project was appraised in February 1978. Negotiations were
held in Washington in July 1978; the Government delegation was headed by Mr.
Samir Koraiem of the Ministry of Economy and Dr. Fawzy Sayed of the Ministry
of Health. It included representatives of the Ministries of Health and Plan-
ning. A staff appraisal report (No. 2073-EGT) is being distributed separately.
A map of Egypt showing the project governorates is attached.



- 15 -
Project Objectives
55.        The project marks the renewed determination of the Government of
Egypt to take action to reduce population growth. It addresses, more directly
and on a significantly larger scale than any previous program in the country,
the problems which have hindered the adoption of family planning practices.
Its overall objective is to support the revitalization of Egypt's population
program, and the target of reducing the crude birth rate by one per 1,000 per
year. It will be carried out mainly through the Ministry of Health. While
some project components will be implemented at a national level, most will be
limited to seven of Egypt's 25 governorates: these seven governorates (the
Project Governorates) are described in paragraph 56. The project will attempt
to meet its objectives in the following main ways:
(i) By developing an expanded national program for information,
education and communication (IEC) in MCH and family plan-
ning, to attempt to make people aware of the advantages
of smaller families and wider spacing of births, and to
persuade married couples to use family planning (see
paragraph 59);
(ii)  By establishing in the Project Governorates a home visiting
program to advise families on health and family planning
(paragraph 60). This program will be the first large-scale
attempt to promote family planning and improved health by a
direct approach to potential users;
(iii)  By improving training of doctors, nurses and their super-
visors in the Project Governorates, to improve their know-
ledge and practice of community medicine, and to make them
better able to encourage use of family planning (paragraph 61);
(iv)  By improving the coverage and the equipment of health
services in the Project Governorates (paragraph 62);
(v) By supporting research in health and population matters and
evaluation of population programs (paragraph 63);
(vi)  By improving the facilities of the Egyptian Family Planning
Association (paragraph 64); and
(vii)  By providing funds for innovative activities, to be deter-
mined, in support of the program (paragraph 65).
56.       Project Governorates.  Seven governorates have been selected for
the project, with a total population of about ten million, approximately one
quarter of the population of Egypt. They are representative of Egypt's main
socioeconomic and geographic areas. The seven are Qena and Minya in Upper
Egypt (the poorer part of Egypt), Kafr-El-Sheik in the Northern Delta, Qalubia
and Giza, close to Cairo and including part of the Cairo Metropolitan area, two



- 16 -
districts of Cairo itself, and a "frontier" Governorate, the Wadi El Gedid or
New Valley, in which most of the population are settlers on reclaimed land.
(See map.) It is hoped that the project components specific to these gover-
norates will prove replicable, in other parts of Egypt, perhaps through a third
population project with IDA support.
57.       Project Preparation Facility.  An advance of $371,000 from the proj-
ect preparation facility was agreed in April 1978 to finance certain critical
activities needed to speed implementation. Activities financed include design
and drafting specifications of buildings and equipment, program design for
IEC, training of key staff for training centers, research to provide baseline
data for project evaluation and other initial studies to provide information
for use in planning and training. The Ministry of Health has started these
activities.
58.       Project Targets.  In order to meet the national goal of reducing
the birth rate from about 36 per thousand in 1976 to 31 per thousand in 1982,
a nationwide increase in the number of contraceptive users would be needed
from about 1,050,000 in mid-1977 to 2,000,000 in mid-1982. Such an increase
nationally seems optimistic. However, within the Project Governorates, and
with the aid of the project, a comparable increase from about 240,000 to
500,000 users seems feasible by 1984, which would be consistent with a reduc-
tion in birth rate of about one per thousand per year between 1979 and 1984.
The project will also seek to effect a 50 percent decline in infant and
maternal mortality in the Project Governorates by the end of 1984, through
increasing deliveries supervised by trained persons, and increased prenatal
and post-natal care. Reduction in infant mortality will also contribute to
increased acceptance of family planning.
59.       IEC Components.  The Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
program under the project would be aimed primarily at married women with two or
more children, and at leaders of opinion. Special emphasis will be placed on
improving continuation rates of contraceptive use, increasing use of IUDs,
and reaching rural and urban poor (particularly illiterate women), who have not
so far been reached by the MCH and family planning program. An outline of the
IEC program has been prepared: a detailed plan of action will be developed by
May 1, 1979 (DCA Section 3.05). The IEC program will be carried out by the
Ministry of Health and agencies of the Ministry of Information and Culture
(MOIC), coordinated by a committee representing the agencies involved to be
established by May 1, 1979 (DCA Section 3.05). Films, slides, charts and other
audiovisual materials will be produced, audiovisual equipment supplied for
health centers and mobile IEC units in the Project Governorates, a "Theater
Caravan" and local "Radio and Television Listeners' Clubs" established and
technical assistance and training provided.
60.       Home Visiting Program.  The weakest link in the MCH and family
planning program is the lack of contact between the target groups and the
health services. The home visiting program to be established in the Project
Governorates will provide for households in the target groups to be visited
approximately every two months by a member of the community who has experience



- 17 -
in providing service to that community. Home visitors would receive a simple
training, and be provided with a simple IEC kit, to carry health and family
planning messages and to give information about nutrition and immunization.
Home visitors would be part-time; each would cover about 200 families. They
would be chosen in cooperation with the communities from which they are drawn,
and would be closely supervised by staff trained for the purpose. The proposed
credit will finance a proportion of the salaries of the home visitors and their
supervisors, on a declining scale over the period of the project. It will also
contribute to their training, their IEC kits, and three man years of technical
assistance. The Ministry of Health will prepare and review with IDA by May 1,
1979, a detailed program of implementation, supervision and evaluation of the
program (DCA Section 3.05).
61.       Training Component.  This component will assist in developing
basic content and methods for training related to the MCH and family plan-
ning programs, and in training trainers and program organizers. Six training
centers will be built in the Project Governorates for in-service training in
MCH and family planning, and to improve the training of doctors and nurses in
community medicine, especially in their role in the community outreach and
management aspects of the MCH/FP program. Living accommodation for two
medical students will be built in each of 90 rural health units, for field
training in community medicine as part of their basic professional training.
62.        Improvement of Health Service Coverage.  This component, which is
entirely confined to the Project Governorates, will extend the reach of primary
health services to areas which lack health facilities, and improve the quality
of services available in existing health units. The project will provide for
(a) construction and equipment of 48 rural health units and nine small urban
general health centers with an emphasis on MCH services, as well as obstetric
and IUD insertion equipment for existing health facilities, (b) one simple
ambulance for each of the 59 MCH centers and 179 rural health centers to
improve outreach and provide emergency transport; and (c) 61 multi-purpose
vehicles for supervision in the project area.
63.       Research and Evaluation Activities.  The objectives of this component
are: (a) to provide research support for the project and for the Ministry of
Health's primary health programs, especially MCH and family planning; and (b)
to develop a system for collection and processing of data for the MCH and
family planning programs.  A Research and Development Unit is being set up
in the Department of Family Planning of the Ministry, which will coordinate
a research program to be carried out by Egyptian research institutions and
universities.
64.       EFPA Component.  This component will be financed by ODM.  It will
include: (a) additional furniture and equipment for 94 family planning centers
in the Project Governorates; (b) 22 vehicles, one for each of the Governorate-
level associations affiliated to EFPA; (c) two fully equipped IEC vehicles; and
(d) vehicles, library facilities and equipment for the Alexandria Family Plan-
ning Training Institute.



- 18 -
65.       Innovative Activities.  Experience with population projects in other
countries has shown that, in a sector where the likely effect of program acti-
vities must always be uncertain, it is helpful to allow for flexibility to
finance activities unforeseen at the time of appraisal. The proposed credit
will therefore include funds (equivalent to about $1.9 million) for "innova-
tive activities", proposals for which may be developed during the course of
project implementation, for example from the monitoring of other project
components.  Funds will be disbursed for activities under this component only
if the proposed activity has been approved by IDA before its implementation
has started (DCA Schedule 1, paragraph 3). Criteria used for justifying such
activities will be:  relevance of program objectives, innovativeness, that the
credit is an appropriate source of finance, feasibility and replicability.
Project Implementation
66.       The Department of Family Planning in the Ministry of Health will
have overall responsibility for project implementation and coordination of
the different components. This centralized control gives reason for believing
that the diverse activities will be successfully carried out. The Director-
General of Family Planning has been appointed Project Executive Director-
General: his Department has been strengthened to operate as a project unit.
He will be assisted by a Program Adviser, responsible for detailed planning of
the home visiting, training, research and evaluation components. Key project
staff are being appointed, and will be in office by May 1, 1979 (DCA Section
Section 3.05). A special Project Coordination Committee, including the Minister
of Health (Chairman), the First Undersecretary of the Ministry of Health, the
Project Executive Director-General and the Program Adviser has been appointed
to supervise implementation.
67.       All civil works, and the procurement of all equipment, vehicles and
advisory services, will be the direct responsibility of the Department of
Family Planning. Preparation of preliminary type designs for the rural health
units, MCH centers and training centers was financed from the PPF advance.
Over half of the sites for civil works have been selected, from land belonging
to the Government, and the remainder will be acquired by May 1, 1979 (DCA
Section 3.05). By August 1, 1979, the Government will forward to the Associa-
tion for its review working drawings and draft bid documents for buildings on
the sites already acquired on February 1, 1979 (DCA Section 3.06). The
Directors-General of Health Services in the Project Governorates (who are
employees of the Ministry of Health) will be responsible for implementing
project activities at the Governorate level (other than civil works), that is
the home visiting program, operation and maintenance of health facilities, and
part of the IEC program. Their staff will be trained for this purpose by the
Department of Family Planning, which will also provide guidance during project
execution.
68.       In order to support the project administration, and to ensure that
certain key positions are adequately filled, salaries of a number of project
supervisory staff will be partially financed from the proceeds of the credit.
The credit will also be disbursed against salaries of the home visitors and



- 19 -
other staff of the home visiting program, of the training and IEC programs,
and of certain specially recruited staff (such as a translator) in the Depart-
ment of Family Planning. It is common in population projects to disburse
against salary costs: financing of salaries will allow the newly established
Department of Family Planning to be expanded to fulfill its new responsibil-
ities. Disbursement against salary costs for the home visiting program will
allow close IDA involvement in this important component, which is on this
scale an activity new to Egypt, and extremely difficult to organize. Dis-
bursements from the credit against salaries will be on a declining scale,
so as to reduce the impact on the Ministry of Health budget. The Government
will continue to employ these staff after disburs.ments are completed. (DCA,
Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 1, paragraphs 1 and 2(c)).
69.        Consultants.  Technical assistance for general program management,
and for the IEC, home visiting, training, research and evaluation components,
will amount to approximately 8.5 man years of foreign and 10.3 man years of
local consultant time. The cost of technical assistance per man-month (exclud-
ing contingencies) is estimated as follows: (i) $2,000 for fellowships abroad,
(ii) $300 for fellowships in Egypt, (iii) $1,500 for local advisory services,
and (iv) $5,000 for foreign advisory services.
Project Cost and Financing
COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
$ Million Equivalent
Local        Foreign       Total
Components
lEC                                             1.6           2.5          4.1
Home Visiting Program                           8.8           0.9          9.7
Training                                        5.9           2.3          8.2
Health Facilities                               6.9           8.2         15.1
Research & Evaluation                           1.7           0.4          2.1
EFPA                                            0.2           0.4          0.6
Innovative Activities                           1.0           0.9          1.9
Support to Project Management                  0.2            0.3          0.5
Sub-Total                             26.3          15.9         42.2
Physical Contingencies                          1.0           0.9          1.9
Price Contingencies                            12.1           4.1         16.2
TOTAL                                         39.4           20.9         60.3
Contributed by Government                      27.3            -          27.3
ODM                            3.5           4.5          8.0
IDA                            8.6          16.4         25.0



- 20 -
70.       As indicated in the above table, total project cost is estimated at
$60.3 million equivalent, of which $20.9 million, or about 35 percent, is in
foreign exchange. It is proposed that IDA finance $25 million or 42 percent
of project cost, including 78 percent of the foreign and 22 percent of the
local costs. Local cost financing is justified for the reasons given in
paragraph 32. ODM, which participated in the appraisal mission, has agreed
to make a grant of about $8 million equivalent to 13 percent of total cost,
including 22 percent of the foreign and 9 percent of the local costs. The
Government will finance 45 percent of total cost. Signing of the grant agree-
ment with ODM will be a condition of effectiveness (DCA Section 6.01). ODM
would finance those parts of project components relating to Minya Governorate,
together with the EFPA component, and parts of the IEC program. It is expected
that the Government will exempt goods imported for the purpose of the project
from duties, which would amount approximately to $3 million.
71.       Fiscal Impact.  The project will involve operating costs totalling
about LE 13 million ($19 million) at 1978 prices, excluding contingencies. In
1983, the first year after project completion, operating costs are expected to
be about LE 4 million. These costs will be met from the Ministry of Health's
operating budget, which in 1978 is about LE 102 million (about 4 percent of
total Government current expenditure). Thus, allowing for the contribution
from the IDA credit and from ODM to project salaries, the project will require
an increase in the Ministry of Health budget, by about one percent in 1979, by
over three percent in 1982 and by over four percent in 1983. These increases
appear reasonable. Eventual expansion of the program to the other 75 percent
of the country would involve a further additional recurrent expenditure of the
order of 12 percent of the Ministry's budget.
Procurement
72.       Contracts for equipment and vehicles exceeding $10,000 equivalent,
and for materials and furniture exceeding $150,000 will be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. In comparing bids under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be
allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower. However, because of the limited capacity and capability
of the domestic equipment and vehicle industries, and based upon the experience
under the first population project, practically all of the equipment, materials
and vehicles bid internationally are expected to be supplied from abroad. Some
furniture is expected to be supplied locally. Contracts for materials and
furniture not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of $750,000,
and for all civil works (which are for many small buildings over a wide area),
will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding following Government
procurement procedures acceptable to IDA. Foreign contractors will, of course,
be eligible to bid. Procurement will be based on packages prepared in such a
way as to encourage competition. Contracts for equipment and vehicles esti-
mated to cost less than $10,000 may be procured after quotations from three
reliable suppliers.



21 -
Disbursement
73.       Disbursements for goods will be against 100 percent of foreign
exchange cost if imported, 100 percent of ex-factory cost if manufactured
locally, and 80 percent of local cost if imported but procured locally; for
civil works 50 percent of total cost; and for technical assistance 100 percent
of total cost. Salaries of home visitors and other staff financed under the
project will be reimbursed on a declining scale from 85 percent in 1979 to 25
percent in 1982. Reimbursement for this item will be against statement of
expenditures. Disbursements are expected to be as follows:
Fiscal Year
$ Million
79      80       81       82      83
Annual                  1.1     7.0      9.6      5.4     1.9
Cumulative              1.1     8.1    17.7    23.1    25.0
The disbursement in FY79 would include refunding of up to $371,000 for the
Project Preparation Facility advance.
Benefits and Risks
74.       The project constitutes a turning point in the history of efforts
to reduce population growth in Egypt. In effect, it can be viewed as the
instrument whereby the Ministry of Health has at last taken full responsibility
for directing the implementation of a comprehensive MCH and family planning
program. Although in its first phase this program will be limited to part of
the country, its successful implementation would provide a model for the
remaining Governorates, and therefore bring significantly greater long-term
benefits. It is difficult to quantify the economic benefits of a population
project. The project's unquantifiable benefits come from the reduction in
population growth which it should generate, and from improved health. The
project will greatly increase the prospects of achieving an increase in family
planning consistent with the Government's target reduction of one point per
thousand per year in the birth rate in an area which includes about 25 percent
of the country's total population. To a lesser extent the project will also,
through its nationwide activities, contribute to reducing fertility in other
parts of the country.
75.       Since the strengthening of the health delivery system in the project
area is a principal means of realizing the project's objectives, the project
will generate substantial health benefits. In particular, improvement in the
effectiveness of the MCH care services available in the project area, and
increased use of these services by the target population of about 1.5 million
married women of reprodutive age, and their children, will lead to improved
health of mothers and children. Evidence from a number of countries indicates
strongly that reduction in infant and child mortality is a precondition for
smaller desired family size. While the immediate effect of reducing infant
mortality is actually to increase population growth, the longer term effects



- 22 -
are positive. After a few years, as families come to realize that fewer of
their children die, a reduction in birth rate can be expected which would more
than outweigh the immediate effect. The strengthening of the health delivery
system will also bring health benefits for the general public in the Project
Governorates.
76.       The project will be difficult to implement because close cooperation
and coordination, which has been lacking in the past, will be required among
the Ministries of Health and Information and Culture, the EFPA and the PFPB.
However, this risk will be diminished by the fact that all of these agencies
are represented on the High Committee for Family Planning established by the
Minister of Health to advise him in implementing his family planning respon-
sibilities. As indicated by the experience of the first project, there is
also the risk that local funds might not be made available to the project in
adequate amounts in a timely fashion. We believe that this risk is acceptable.
Full budgetary provision will be made under the Ministry of Health budget,
because of the high priority the Government gives to the project in the Five
Year Plan. A financial controller will be seconded to the Ministry of Health
from the Ministry of Finance to obviate administrative difficulties (DCA
Section 3.05), and a special cash account will be established as a condition
of effectiveness from which the Project Director can draw budgeted funds for
project implementation (DCA Section 3.01(c)).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Proposed special conditions of effectiveness (DCA Section 6.01) are
(i) signing of the agreement for a grant from ODM (paragraph 70), and (ii)
provision of a cash account for the use of the Project Director (paragraph
76). Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are listed in Section III of Annex III.
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 19, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
EGYPT                  SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AHEA (THOU KM2)                                                           -
EGYPT                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTA.      1001.4                                       MOST RECENT
ADrIC.      29.9                        1960       197/   ESTIMATE            PHILIPPINES   TURKEY           SPAIN **
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     110.0*    170.0*    280.0*/a              230.0*      500.0*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            25.8       33.3       38.1/a              36.9        35.6        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SCUARE KM.                        26.0       33.0       38.0/a             123.0        46.0        67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       982.0      1125.0   1273.0/a               375.0        65.0       105.0
VtTAL '8TTISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          44.5       42.1       37.8                44.2        40.6        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)           20.7       17.0       14.0                13.2        14.4         e.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        109.0      116.0    100-115                61.0       153.0/a      27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        44.9       49.9       52.4                55.6        54.4        70.5
GROSS REPhkDUCTION RATE                2.8/a      3.0        3.0                 3.3         2.6/b,C    1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TO'AL                                  2.4        2.6        2.3                 3.0         2 S         1.1
URBAN                                  6.0        3.6        3.4                 4.0         4.9/d       2 0
UREAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           38.0       42.1       44.6                27.6         38.7        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO '4 YEAPS                        43.0       42.1         ..                45.6        41.7        27.8
15 TO 64 "EA;                         .54.0      54.7 .7                        51.6        54.0        62.5
65 YEAlHS ANJ ':IF                     3.0        3.2         *.                 2.8         4.3         9.7
AGE DEPLNDENE(' RAFIO                    o.s        0.8         ..                 0.9         0.9          0.6
ECONOMiC DEPE'l0'_NC'l ftAT TO           1.8        1.8/a        . .               1 .5         1.1 /e      1.1
I-AMIL. PL.''iN,NN
ACCLR-TDRS (rL.S..LAIIVE, ,HOU)         *-      488.0    1239.0                320.0
USERS /X LF OF RRIEO OtI.Nl              ..         .       21.1                 2.0         8.2
EMPLO'MENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          7800.0/b  8300.0/b 9600.0/a              12400.0    14500.0/f  11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)          57.o7E    53.07S    43.97a                55.0/a      67.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            5.0        3.0        T 1.475             7.6         4  0 /g      1 .1 /a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             19.2/C                21.0/c                ,,        32.a/h
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             48.47;C               46.07w                -         60.57W
LOWEST  20% CF HOUSEHOLDS              4.67-C                5.2T                 .          2.972
LOWEST  40% Of HOUShOLDS              14.1 7       .        16.O/C                           2 39.4Th
DISTRIBJTION Or LAND OWNERSHIP
YA OWNED BY ToP 10% OF OWNERS              .,      '  ,          .,                  . *      53.0
% OWNED Bv FiALLEST 10X OWNERS             ..         .          ..                 ..         0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              2500.0/d  1910.0    1820 o/b d                 ,      2250.0       740.0/b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2730.07'e 1640.0/c  1520.07                   . .     1770.0/i*
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            500.0oId   460.0      460.0               850.0       SOO.O       220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0     106.0       113.0               86.0       112.0        107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               66.0       66.0      70.7                 45.0        78.0        81.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          17.0/f    16.0       16.0                 22.0        22.0/J      40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             393           .         ,,                 6.6        14.7/k       0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        66.0       69.0       72.0               113.0       109.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      16.0       33.0       40.0                49.0        28.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST ANO SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0                10.0        11.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(S OF SECONOARY)                      22.0       19.0       19.0                6.o/b      14.0         20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 20.0         * *      40.0                  *-        55.0/1      94.0
HOUSINC
-'%SONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.6          .          .                  * .        1.9
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       60.0/                                    76.0        64.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
1% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  38.0/g       *-      40.0/a,f            23.0        41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRIC"TY (X)                      ..         * .      20.0/a,f            7.0         18.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADI: RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          58.0      132.0     140.0                 72.0        89.0       214.0
PASSENCER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0        4.0        6.0                 8.0         4.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH 'YR PER CAP)          102.0      228.0     280.0                235.0       247.0      1634.0
NEWSPR'NT  K/YR PER CAP)                 1.3         1.0       1 -1                2.0         0.7.8
SEE NOTES ANL DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Eatimete between
1973 and 1975.
(;NP per capita daca are blsed on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Spain'. 5  c.c.e.aful diver-ification of it. econonic structure,,degree of Induatrialiation and development of toorisa  makes it an appropriate
objective" country.
EGYPT           1960    Ia  1950-55;    /b  Figores relate to persons sai  years snd over, oxcluding n-ad popolotion;    /o  1964-65;    /d  19C2;
/e  Including assistant nurses and midwivee;    /f  1960-62;    /&  Urban only.
1970    Ia  RatiO of popolation coder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force age 12-64 yearn;    /b  Relates to 12-64 years of age, 1966;
/c Registered, not a11 practicing in the country.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  .976;    /b  1972;    /c  Rural only, b.aed on eopendituro survey of houaeholde;    /d  Regiatered, not a11
practicing in the country        In  1971;    /f  Percentage of population.
pMILIPPI7NES    1970    /a  Ao percentage of eoployment;    /b  Rot  including private vocational echoole.
TTRiTY          1970    /a  1967;    /b  focludec 17 eastern provincs;    /c  1965-67;    /d  1965-70;    7c  Ratio of populotion under 15 and 65 end
over to labor force 15 years and over;    /f  15 years and over.acludes onemployed;    /g  Registered only;    /h  Disposable
incose;      i  Including aesiatant nurses and midwives;    /1  1964-66;    /k  1967-68;    /I  Peroona six years and ever
who tell the census takers that they can read and write.
SPAIN           1970    Ia  &nploysent office eatbmate;    /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country.
DEFPNITIONS OF SOCIAL LNDICATORS
Land Areg  (thou kuc 2                                                                    opulation per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicing
Total - Total surfaoe area conprising land area and inland water.                          male and female gradute nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Agric  - Mo-a  rene-t eati-mte of  gricultural area ned temporarily or                     .asiliery personnel with training or eoperien-e
permanently for cropa, pastursa, market 6 kitchen gardens or to lie                   Population per hospital bed - Population divided by nusber of hoepital bed
fallow,                                                                                 available in public and private general and aPecialined bespital and
rehabilitation centers; eacludea  nuraig hoees and .eaablishqeote  for
GNP per capita (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                  cutodil and preventive care.
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlpa  (1973-75 basis);            Per capita supply of calories (% of requiremento) - Computed from energy
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                               equivalent of net food supplies available in cosntry per capita par day;
available supplies comprise deostic production, imports lees exports,
PoPulation and vital ataciutica                                                            and changes In stock; net nupplien exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities
Population (oid-yr.  illioe) - An of July first:  if not available,                        ued in food processing and looses in diotribution; requiraseeta were
average of two end-year estim tes; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                             eatimated by FAO based on physinlogical needs for normal activity and
health considering eovirosonental temperature, body weights, age and see
Population density - per square k= - Mid-year population per square kilo-                  distributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at household levl.
meter (100 hectares) of total area.
Poeplation density - per square kn of eeric. lond - Computed as above for               Per capita eupply of protein (Rrea per day) - Protein content of per
agricultural land only.                                                                 capitr  net supply of food per day; nmt supply of food is defined as
shove; rqirements   or all coutries established by USNDA Rcocemci
Vital  tatistics                                                                           Research Servies provide for a minim,an allowance of 60 grams of
Crude birth rate per thouaand. averase - Annual live births per thoonad                    total protein per day, and 20 grame of animal and pelse protein,of
of mid-year population; ten year arithmetic  averages ending in 1960 and                which 10 grems should be animal protein; these standards are Iwer
1970, and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                    than those of 75 grams of total protein and 23 gra   of animal protein
Crude death rate per thousnd. aversee - Annul deaths per tho-and of mid-                   as an average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third world Fp6kd
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and               Survey.
five-year averge ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                             Per capita protein sueppl  frem animal and pulse - Protein eupply ot fod
Infant mrarlity rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year                    derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
of age per thosand live births.                                                       Death rate (/thou) eges 1-4 - Annual deatho per thousand in age group
Life expectancy at birth (yrs) - Average number of years of life remain-                   1-4 years, to children in thin age group;  tsggested as an indicator of
iog at birth; uually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 sod                        malnutrition.
1975 for developing .cootries.
Gross reproduction rate - Average nebser of live daughters a women will                 Edu-ntion
bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enroll=ant of a11 ages as
upecific fertility  rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   percentage of primary school-age population; includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                                 6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary educatiem;
PoPulotlen growth race (7.) - total - Canpound annuaI growth rates of mid-                 for coustries with universal education, enrollment may exceed 100%
year popalation for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                       sine somae pupils are below or above the official school age.
P.Pnlotion growth rats (%) - urban - Compated like gremtr  rate of total                Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as  bov;
population; different definitions of urban areas may  ffect compars-                    secondary education requires at least four years of approved primlry
bility of Oats flng countries.                                                          instruction; providee general, vocational or teacher training
Urban copplatpon (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                       inmtruction  for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence
different definitio-a of urban areas may affent comparability of data                   courses are generally  xcluded.
m6ong cootries.                                                                       Years ofischooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
ARe structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),               schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be par-
and retired (65 yearn and over) as percentagea of mid-year popelation.                  tially or completely secluded.
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                  Vonctieal enrollment i w of secondary) - Vocational muatitutions
thane of ages 15 thr-gh 44.                                                             include technical, industrial or other prOgroam  hbich operate
Econonic dependenoy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over                  independently or as dep-rt,ents of secondary inotitution.
to the iabc- force in age group of 15-64 years.                                       Adl_ieayrt   0       ieat   dls(hot   edadwite)a
camilheiatolno-foreptos (cumulative,nthou) - CSroaive number of                         percentage of total adult popelation aged 15 years sd over.
acceptors of birth-control devicen under suspices of mational family
planening   crarm  si.cs inception.                                                   HousinR
Fa.ily planning - users (% of married women) - Percentage- of amrried                   Persono per ronm  (urban) - Average nonber of persons per roam in
women of child-beuring age (15-44 years) sho ue birth-control devices                   occupied conventional dwellings in urban areas; duelling  exclude
to oil married women in asme age group.                                                 non-permanent structures and unoccupied port..
Dccupied dwellings without piped w-tr (%) - Occupied conventional
foPlo-nenc                                                                                dwelling- in urban end rural areas without innide or outside piped
Toaln labor- force (thousod) - Econnically active persons, including                      water facilities aS percentage of all occupied dwelings.
armd forcon end unemployed but e..oIudiog housoiven, students, etc.;                  Access to  Ieletricity (0 of all dwefMngo) - fCnvetiona1 dwellings
definition, in various countries are not comparable.                                    with electricity in living quarters an percent of total dwellings in
Lubor f-one in  gntioulture (%) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,                   urban and rural areas.
fo-en-n', hooting sod fishing) as percentage of total labor force.                    Rur-l dwellings connected to olectricity  (7) - Computed os above for
Unemployed (/ of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as                         rural duellinga only.
persons who are able und willing to take a job, out of a job on a
given day, remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified                    Consuoption
ucciouc period not ecceeding one week; mey not be comparable between                  Radio receivers (per thou popl - All tvpe- of reoeiver- for radio broad-
cou-ctl,s doe to different definitions of unemployed and source of                      ousts to general public per thousand of popuiecion; e-ludes
dat, e. g.  esmploysnt office stoti-tic-, -a-ple surveys-, cpul-ory                     unlicensed receivers in  -ouotries and iv yve-r ubon registration of
,u-picuot- -ouac.rdio sets wa  in effect; dote f-r  --eo   --ar  ny ou  becoopacble
n        Siee mont conetrien ebolluhed lico-ns mn
Ircono dit-ributior - Porceocage of privuce  income (both in tanh and                   Passenger cars (per thou pop) - fanuvuger curs  -onpri-e -o-or core
kreceived b  riche-t 5/, richest 22%, poorvts 2'.  l -             '. j  s              seating lean than eight poruons; e-cludes amb5l.nct-, he'rses end
',r  of Sousoohld-                                                                      nilitury ve-hiles
Elcoutliciy (khb/yr P.r co)   Ac.u-' --ntnpi-ov ofidustrIal, tm
;ionr''ttcr. of Land  -o-nhiP -  Pr-entago  of land owned by wealthieot                  -orictl, public and pe tr-  ca-''' it-         'br          - -  per r-pit;
-- und torest lo% f ctnd                                                               g-orn.  ceverully bosed on prod,ccv - cors   .  c   c,; a v-'nco tot losoes in
grida but s1oving tot i--ort  ut,d  rot   feLctli,
ceal2h t r a 'tritton                                                                   Ncevprict (kf/yr Per cap)- Pc   -p- -    ct'  oif  kiblgt
Pop'Astto:'per phyociut1  - Population divided by nsmber of practicing                    entiotted from dome.tic produccio- plus  -or :pvrts of newsprint.
phbvvci.ns qulififd from a modical schoul at university level.



_AN.Eis '
Page 3 of 4
ECYPT
ECONOiC DWILMENT DATA
(Amount in millions of US dollars)
Actual                             Projected       1973-  1975-
1973      1974      1975      1976           1980          1975   1980            1973  1975  1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                (Constant 1975 Prices)                  Average Annual
Growth Rates      As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                      10,517    10,849   11,912  12,636                16,288      6.3      6.4            99   100    99
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)                    57       365    ..           82                 113       ..      ..            +1    ..    +1
Gross Domestic Income                       10,574    11,214   11,912  12,718                16,401      6.1      6.6            100   100   100
Imports(incl. noa-factor services)          -2,864    -4,052   -4,989  -3,904                -5,970    32.0       3.6            27    42    36
Exports (incl. non-factor services)          1.950      2,230    2.198   2.512                4.226      6.2    14.0              18    19    26
Resource Gap                                  -914    -1,822   -2.791  -1,392                -1,744    75.0    -9.0               9    23    10
Consusmption Expenditures                   10,115    10,887   11,836  11,806                14,179      8.2      3.7             96    99    86
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)    1,373         2,149    2,867   2,304                3,966    44.0       6.7            13    24    24
Domestic Savings                               459        327        76      912              2,222   -60.0    95.0               4      1    14
MERCHANDISE TRADE                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                  As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                291        480       728      840                                                  17   16
Fuels and intermediate goods                 633      1,655    2.057   1,208                                                   38    46
Cnnsumntion Goods                            740      1,356    1.712   2,166                                                   45    38
Total Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)         1,664      3,491    4,497   4,214                                                  100  100
Exports
Agricultural Products                        423        857       522      544                                                 42    33
Industrial Goods                             580        817    1.046   1.068                                                   58    67
Total Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)         1,003      1,674    1,568   1,612                                                  100   100
Travel                                        156       266       332      465
Suez Canal                                    -          -         85      312
Merchandise Trade Indices                            Average 1975 - 100
Export Price Index                             68       122       100      109
Import Price Index                            67         95       100      105
Terms of Trade Index                          101       128       100      103
Exports Volume Index                          94         88       100      114
VALUE ADDED BY SECTR                                 As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                   33         34        33       31
Industry, Electricity SC Construction         24         26        28       28
Services                                      43         40        39       41
Total                                       100        100       100      100
1977
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                      Rev.
Current Prices              Budget                                 As Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                          3,180      3,658    4,549   5,914    7,641                                       34      38
Current Expenditures                      2.818      3.623    5.246   6.072    6.748                                       30      44
Budgetary Savings                           362         35     -697    -158        893                                       4     -6
Public Sector Investment                  1,155      1,469    2,209   2,509    3,471                                       12      19
US $ million
DETAIL ON                   At 1975 P and ER
PUBLIC SECTOR            Draft Plan
INVESTMENT PROGRAM        (1978-82)         o Of Total
Agriculture                2,240           9
Industry and Mining       7,085           27
Services                  2,501           10
Transport and com-
munications (Inc. Suez)  7,111            27
______ _____ _____ ______ _____ _____ _____ ______ _____ _____ ______ _____ _____ _____ O ther            7,111          27
Total Expenditures       26,048          100
SELECTED INDICATORS                                               1973-    1975-
1975     1980
Average ICOR                                                      2.08      3.661/
Import Elasticity                                                 3.81     0.75-
LABOR FORCE AND
OUTPUT PER WORKER                                                Total Labor Force                       Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
In Millions           7 of Total                       In US Dollars    x of Averaze
1973     1975        1973    1975                       1973    1975      1973    1975
Agriculture                                             4.2       4.2          47      44                       624      858        67      69
Industry                                                1.2       1.2          13      13                     1,557   2,087        167     167
Service 2/                                              3.6       4.1         40       43                       615   1,374        66      110
Total                                                   9.0       9.5        100      IW                        932   1,247       100      100
I/ Import elasticity for 1975-80 low because of decrease in imports experienced is 1976.  For the period 1977-80,
import elasticity is estimated at 1.00.
i/ Includes distribution, electricity and construction sectors.



EGYPT                                         ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                    Page 4 of 4
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
Actual
1973       1974       1975    1976
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods, f.o.b.                                      1,003      1,674      1,568   1,612
Import of Goods, c.i.f.                                     -1,664    -3 491    -4.497  -4,214
Trade Balance                                               -661    -1,817    -2,929  -2,602
Service Receipts                                               421        726      1,250   1,980
Service Payments                                              -414       -541       -801    -896
Service Balance                                                7        185        449   1,084
A.   Deficit on Goods and Services                               -654    -1,632    -2,480  -1,518
B.   Amortization of LMT Debt                                    -407       -631       -476    -717
(of which suppliers' credits)                               (277)     (-285)    (-280)  (-414)
C.   Reductions of Balances on Bilateral Accounts                -113        -28       -241
D.   Foreign Exchange Requirements                             -1,174    -2,291    -3,197  -2,235
E.   Supply of Funds                                            1,290      2,119      3,217   2,208
Private unrequited transfers                                   6         42         91       87
Official grants                                              725      1,264        988      625
Gulf Organization for Development in Egypt                   --         --         --
Other MLT loans                                              170        199        583      760
Suppliers' credits                                           160        273        363      501
MLT deposits/loans CBE                                       --           5      1,580      550
Foreign investment                                           --           7         20       60
Net increase in short-term commercial bank credits           352        585      -264        -5
Other monetary movements, net 1/                            -123       -256      -144    -370
F.  Changes in Reserves                                          116       -172         20      -27
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants and Grant-like                                 725      1,264        988      625
Public MLT Loans
IBRD                                                         --          85         77     157
IDA                                                          75          55         55      40
Other Multilateral                                           --           6        100       95
Governments                                                 290         595      2,507     934
Suppliers/Commercial                                        160         273        363     501
Total Public MLT Loans                                      525       1,014      3,102   1,727
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE, MLT
(Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed)
Interest on Public Debt                                      79          95        111     180
Repayments on Public Debt                                   407         631       476      717
Total Public Debt Service                                   486         726       587      897
Burden on Exchange Earnings (%)
Public Debt Service                                         34.1        30.3      20.8    25.0
EXTERNAL DEBT                                 Actual Debt Outstanding on 0ecember 31, 1977
Disbursed Only           Percent
Loans                                                5,458.3                   67.9
(of which: IBRD)                                     ( 86.6)                  (1.1)
IDA)                                    (167.9)                  (2.1)
Deposits in CBE                                      1,938.3                   24.1
Suppliers Credits                                      640.7                    8.0
Total Public MLT Debt                                8                        100.0
Short-term Debt (disb. only)                           555
1/ tIcludes errors and omissions



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT                   Page 1 of 7
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1978)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                     less cancellations
Numbers            FY        Borrower        Purpose                                Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR           60          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5      --         --
Cr 181-UAR           70          UAR           Nile Delta Drainage                     --    26.0          4.4
Cr 284-UAR           72          ARE           Railways I                              --    30.0          1.1
Cr 393-UAR           73          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage                    --    36.0         12.0
Cr 412-UAR           73          ARE           Development Industrial Bank 1/          --    15.0          1.0
Cr 423-UAR           74          ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation           --    18.5          4.5
Cr 437-UAR           74          ARE           Population                              --      5.0         0.8
Cr 484-UAR           74          ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                       --    20.0          3.8
Cr 524-EGT           75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                          --    35.0          1.0
Ln 1062-EGT          75          ARE           Ag/Ind Imports                         35.0      --         1.3
Ln 1064-EGT          75          SCA           Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0      --        36.9
Ln 1085-EGT          75          ARE           Tourah Cement                          40.0      --         9.9
Ln 1098-EGT          75          ER            Railways II                            37.0      --        16.7
Cr 548-ECT           75          ARE           Telecommunications                      --    30.0         13.9
Cr 576-EGT           76          ARE           Development Industrial Bank II 1/    --    25.0             7.3
Ln 1239-EGT          76          APA           Alexandria Port                        45.0      --        44.3
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76           ARE           Fruit and Vegetable Dev.               50.0      --        48.3
Cr 637-EGT           76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                 --    40.0         36.4
Ln 1285-EGT          76          ARE           Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.0      --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76          ARE           Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0      --        51.6
Ln 1369-EGT          77          AWA           Alexandria Water Supply                56.0      --        55.7
Cr 681-EGT           77          ARE           Education                               --    25.0         23.8
Cr 719-EGT           77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                  --    27.0         27.0
Ln 1439-EGT          77          ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 27.0      --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77           ARE           Nile Delta Drainage II                 12.0      --        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT          77          EEA           Regional Electrification               48.0      --        47.5
Ln 1456-EGT          77          ARE           Industrial Imports                     70.0      --        65.2
Ln S-005-EGT         77          ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and              2.5      --         1.9
Engineering
Ln 1482-EGT          78          SCA           Suez Canal Expansion                  100.0      --        89.9
Cr S-20-EGT          78          ARE           Water Supply Engineering                --      2.0         2.0
Cr 774-EGT           78          ARE           Telecommunications II                   --    53.0         53.0
Ln 1533-ECT          78          DIB           Development Industrial Bank III        40.0      --       40.0
Cr 830-EGT 3/        78          ARE           Agricultural Development                --    32.0         32.0
Cr 831-EGT 3/        78          ARE           Urban Development                       --    14.0         14.0
Totals                                                                               731.0  433.5
Of which has been repaid                                                              56.5
Total now outstanding                                                                674.5
Amount sold                                                                7.5
Of which has been repaid                                                   6.0         1.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                       673.0  433.5        796.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business                      Loan          Equity       Total
1976          Arab Ceramic Company         Ceramic Industry                     4.25             .75        5.0
(Plus .635 contingency commitment)  (5.635)
1977          Nile Clothing Company        Ready-Made Garment Industry          0.40           0.20          0.60
1978          Delta Sugar Company         Agricultural Production,
mainly sugar                      20.0            2.00        22.00
(Plus 1.0 standby commitment)        (23.00)
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria.
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effective Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Full completion of the project is expected by mid-1980, nearly 3
years behind schedule. However, procurement is proceeding satisfactorily.
It is expected that the whole of the credit will be committed in the near
future, and that disbursement will be completed during 1978.  Local funds
required for 1978 are included in the approved budget, and a special fund has
now been established for local currency expenditures for all four drainage
projects.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972; Effective Date: July 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The project generally is being implemented satisfactorily. All
procurement contracts have been awarded, and the credit has been fully com-
mitted. To allow the remaining balance to be utilized, the closing date
for the parts of the credit allocated to signalling and telecommunications
items, originally September 30, 1976, has been postponed twice to March 31,
1979; the credit account for the parts allocated to other items was closed on
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Over 50 percent of the project is complete; construction of open
drains should be finished by the end of 1978, and full completion is expected
by end-1980, i.e., 6 months behind schedule. The bilharzia control program is
progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of Alexandria)
Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29, 1973; Effective Date: November 29,
1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
The entire amount of the credit has been committed to subprojects
and over 90 percent has been disbursed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning 1,ehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effective Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The scaled-down project financed by IDA is estimated to be completed
by end-1980 and the remainder of the full project, financed by a loan from the
Saudi Fund for Development, which became effective in July 1976, is expected
to be completed in 1981-2. The foreign cost of the project ($34.3 million) is
now firm as all procurement has been completed, but the local component con-
tinues to escalate mainly due to steady increase in the cost of civil works.
Cr. No. 437-UAR - Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Effective Date: March 25, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is being carried out with a reduced scope, but has
fallen behind the revised schedule due to construction delays. About half of
the project facilities are now operating satisfactorily and the remainder
should be operating by the end of 1978. Disbursement is now well advanced and
the credit is nearly totally committed. However, an extension of the closing
date by about six months is anticipated.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Effective Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
Procurement: has been completed except for some small items. Accord-
ing to the latest indication the project is likely to be mechanically com-
pleted by March 1979 or 18 months later than estimated during appraisal.
Delays have been due to shortage of skilled labor and delays in the completion
of civil works drawinigs.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effective Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and disburse-
ments are well advanced. Nearly all six surveys of industrial subsectors
financed under the project have been completed. Funds had been substantially
committed for all components by June 30, 1978. Disbursements are expected to
be completed by December 31, 1978.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effective Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Progress to date has been good, although the implementation of the
reconstruction project proved to be much more complex than originally esti-
mated. The financial situation of the Borrower is sound; canal traffic and
revenues are both considerably higher than expected at appraisal. Procurement
is proceeding well.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Procurement of machinery and equipment almost completed (95 percent).
Most items are already on site awaiting erection. After initial difficulties
with civil works contractor rate of construction now somewhat accelerated.
However, delay in start-up of commercial operations expected to be about 1-1/2
years.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress on physical investment items under the project is generally
satisfactory. However, in 1977 the Egyptian Railways (ER) experienced opera-
tional difficulties with a large number of locomotives out of service because
of inadequate maintenance largely due to lack of spare parts. Spare parts
availability and maintenance operations have now improved   and new locomo-
tives have been obtained from bilateral sources. As a result, both freight
and passenger traffic increased, but ER's financial position remains serious.
Government is considering increases in rail tariffs proposed by ER.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effective Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project works are about two years behind schedule, primarily because
of initial delays in building construction. However, construction has recently
accelerated and is expected to proceed satisfactorily. Contract awards for
cables have been largely completed: Telex equipment has been obtained with
financing from other sources and installation of the Cairo telex exchange was
deferred to the second project. The part of the credit originally allocated
for the telex exchange is being used for the purchase of additional cables.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effective Date:
February 19, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1979.
The credit is now fully committed and $17.6 million have been dis-
bursed as of August 22, 1978.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation was initially slower than expected and is now
active. Civil engineering consultants have completed the tender documents for
dredging and berth construction, and these have been issued to prequalified
contractors. Procurement action on Bank-financed equipment and material is
underway. Management consultants are in the field.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project start-up has been slower than expected. Civil engineering
consultants are at work on the drainage and irrigation components of the proj-
ect although the necessary counterpart staff have not always been present.
Tender documents for the Nubariya main drain have been issued. The Agricul-
tural Development Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance
from the World Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers proceed with
their respective investments, and to identify additional sub-borrowers. The
project is now well over one year behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effective
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been slower than expected. Construction
of open drains is on schedule. Field drainage was delayed by slow procurement
of equipment for making pvc drains (financed by USAID).
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effective Date: February 20, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding with a seven-month delay caused by a later
and slower than anticipated start of the civil works. The project is now
estimated to cost about US$17 million equivalent (all in local currency) more
than appraised, due mostly to increased scope of civil works. In part this is
due to the increased price of building materials recently approved by the Gov-
ernment; no difficulties are foreseen in financing this. Early management
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
Project Implementation Units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting delays in procurement.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bidding is now in progress for water meters and pressure pipes and
other contract items for bidding are being prepared by AWA and its consul-
tants; progress with procurement is satisfactory. The preliminary findings
of the USAID-financed Master Plan Study for Alexandria have been reviewed
and, where appropriate, have been reflected in AWA's overall program. No
significant change in the Bank project or AWA's program has resulted from
this study. The management consultants who will assist AWA in improving its
operations were appointed by the Ministry of Housing on April 6, 1978. AWA
has reviewed its existing metering system and prepared a replacement and
repair program which has been commenced. The first quarterly report has been
received in the Bank. Receipts have improved and a start has been made on
metering water supplies to the western desert as a basis for computing Gov-
ernment's compensation arrangements for this service.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effective Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project units have been set up in all Ministries concerned and
project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of equip-
ment and furniture under the project is well advanced. Technical problems
have been encountered with the construction of the two Technical institutes
which needed to be redesigned, resulting in a two year delay. All technical
assistance contracts have been awarded.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; $27 Million Credit, $27 Million Loan and $12 Million Third Window
Loan of July 15, 1977; Effective Date: April 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Implementation is behind schedule although design work is well
advanced.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effective Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Engineering consultants started work in June 1977. All contracts
for electrification equipment and materials are expected to be awarded by
August 31, 1978 and construction is scheduled to start in September 1978.
Consultants for the extension of the UNDP Power Sector Survey and for the
Tariff Study are in the field. Contracts for the review of safety and inspec-
tion procedures and for the training services are to be awarded shortly.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70.0 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effective Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Allocation of loan funds is almost completed and disbursements will
now develop more rapidly.
Ln No. 5-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effective Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Consultants to prepare both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have been appo'inted and are expected to submit feasibility studies by
end 78/early 79.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project execution is satisfactory, although dredging is slower than
planned. Both dredging contracts to be financed by the Bank have been awarded;
tender documents for equipment are being drawn up. Project planning and
supervision arrangements are progressing well.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Cr. No. S-20-EGT - Water Supply Engineering Project; US$2.0 Million Engineering
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: April 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Consultants have been selected and contract negotiations are in
progress.
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40.0 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Loan declared effective on July 18, 1978. Commitments under the
project have commenced.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53.0 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Credit declared effective on September 19, 1978.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32.0 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: November 11, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Urban Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978. Effectiveness Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare project:    Fourteen months
(December 1976 -
February 1978)
(b)  Project prepared by:                             Government, with
assistance from
Association
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                 December 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:            December 1976
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                  February 1978
(f)  Negotiations completed on:                       August 4, 1978
(g)  Effectiveness planned for:                       January 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Because of complexity of the project, IDA will monitor implemen-
tation very closely. The advance from the project preparation facility
described in paragraph 57 is being used to finance a series of activities
needed to ensure speedy implementation.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a) Signature of the ODM agreement (paragraph 70); and
(b) A special cash account will be established for the
project director's use (paragraph 76).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   Condition of Disbursement:
No disbursement on the innovative activities component can be
made until IDA has approved a submission from the Government
showing prior to implementation of each proposed activity that
it meets agreed criteria (paragraph 65).
3.   Other Conditions:
(a)  A detailed plan for the IEC program will be developed and
a coordinating committee for the program established by
May 1, 1979 (paragraph 59);
(b) A detailed program of implementation, supervision and
evaluation of the home visiting program will be submitted
to IDA by May 1, 1979 (paragraph 60);
(c) The Government will recruit and maintain staff needed for
the project, including those financed by the credit
(paragraph 68);
(d) Key project staff will all be in office by May 1, 1979
(paragraph 66); and
(e) Sites for buildings will be acquired by May 1, 1979, and by
August 1, 1979, the Government will forward to IDA working
drawings and draft bid documents for buildings on sites
already acquired on February 1, 1979 (paragraph 67).






IA'                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32'
R c 6 1     _                    0                                                                             Population by Governorate
Alaao,dAs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  06  1  324,0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~AS BY CENSUS NOV. 1976)
Al                                                                                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  o      CAIRO  5,004,43
hlo:= tosa       C3      C        4       - u,                                           ,a                                          ALEXANDRIA                 2,318,655
El he.  7  ~~~~~~~~~~~  3                                  516,06~~~~~~~E A-3 PORT-SAlO                              262,02)
'   0006 1,06~                                                                                                ar M                 4 SUEZ                         194,001
32                               ,oio                j~~~~~~~~~~ISMAILIYA          351,089
1,,. El \o=           t B.                  8(OAOI                                                                             6 DAMIETTA                     557,110
201    lAO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       9 0 ~~~~~~~~~7 DAKAHILIYA                                                                                       2.732,756
24                            8o y'ZOO                                                                                                                          SHARKIYA                  2,621,208
9 QALISBIYA                  1,674,000
10 KAFR EL-SHEIKH             1,403,360
G- 'HAR| IYA                  2,294,303
Fd, 1J v2 MENOUFIYA                                                                                  1,710,962
- -- ---                       13BEHEIRA                      2,545246
14 GIZA                       2,419,247
.3-             15 BENIOSEF                   1,108,613
16 PAOSUM                     1,140,243
17 MINIA                      2,655,730
6 0I a ASSIUT                                            1,695,378
19 0000AG                     1,924.960
20 QENA                       1.705,594
21 ASWVAN                       619.932
22 RED-SEA                       66,191
25                       23 EL-VCOOl EL-GEDID             56.691
, ., , , gg 8, > - ;- =>\>,, ~~~~~~~~~~~Governorates and Districts
24 MATROUH          40 1M26C7T
5I CAIRO                             2 | a 1
L -; i's40  P    b EFZacia El HambyS               1
20-                                                                                                             24o   arhk 
9   ,s, u r - - -      \        :                             \;4;                      E nd9 L ShoIra 9l              1him   1
G       Rats |iokt             10 Distr      1  |
A tX f { -  c DTouRS                                                                              
26 5) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ k C ~~~~~~~~~o Ebaban El ansm                                                                                             0
tdfu 1r9                            g El ROakrms  2=bkuk
"o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cu
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 QolinMa  1
(census 1976)                                        x., Ombo                                b N~~~~~~~~~~           ~ ~~~~~~aylo malFabl    3
b E. Z..,. El    H-o a m
_10,001-20,000                                                                                                                           OALI 6B                           2   1YA
26                                                                                                                                          Al 59dos5,000ohiasEsK h
d1 O       El  K.r        2
[7 ~ ~ ~          ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          1   MIN0 1,00                          1     1 o    o     ehl =    ir
gEl Mah.ska               2
10 MKFRELSHEIKH              1     2 
_ Approxlmat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~006e GovroaeounsolesuHA-=b bral=E1r
I{  A.rl MShy k           41
gEAl Pioav IOukosa
SEON    POUATO    PRJC                                                                                                                              DoSla                   2 oIasSd     tI  KYR?   5
Population Dentity by Governorate                                                                                                   20 0080                         10  1   1
E,            agsHamE  , b Pab. e    3
El Doohn                 1     2
y   K,698    elrS iC6                                 ,,                                                                                 Os,,'    S  U 5W ' SUD ka1              R
Z26                                                                                                                                                               Al0,    200  80  n Bls - a'd 1.
z 2 '-S -'- '-'-400' ' q -' 2'QI H---                                                                                   S       2|
llljLess than 400   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                               23 ELC~~~~A,.  2LRI
~ sot                            o OakhIs l=I,Al,SO r       3
23                                                                                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3isAls'ssihistaoalaAd,sisssdoo
Main Roads  I                                                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  . ..
65  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ l~A MmI                    is,
                                                                                ,t>~~~~~~~~~~~~~,. V~~A Ik,
Po2pu4at5io          6 D nity  20        ovrort421A)N .                                                                                      201 oh .A 6
,Kh06       I N.k.. 
Bi.,MEIL   -,                                                                                                              6  00            \, 0  hE2161
0 ~~~~~~  ~~~  ~ ~ ~~o0  -f/),                                                                                                                    231P ELWDIE.-EI
30' e,,_ __s th----    2                                                                                                -        t400              I



