CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 850 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Population Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 30, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 850 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 30, 1978, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the United
Kingdom, acting through the Ministry of Overseas Development
(hereinafter called 0DM), a grant (hereinafter called the ODM
Grant) in an amount equivalent to about $8,000,000 to assist in
financing pa'rt of the Project, on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the ODM Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and ODM; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "IEC activities" means the information, education and
communication activities associated with the promotion of the


﻿-2-
Maternal and Child Health Program and Family Planning Program of
the Borrower;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated April 10, 1978, and April 14,
1978, between the Borrower and the Association;
(c) "Project Governorates" means the Governorate of Kafr-el-
Sheik, Governorate of Qalubia, Governorate of Giza, Governorate of
Minya, Governorate of Qena, Governorate of El-Wadi El-Gedid and
El-Sharrabia and El-Zawia El-Hamra Districts of the Governorate
of Cairo;
(d) "Minya" means the Governorate of Minya; and
(e) "MOH" means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Predit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation
Advance shall be cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds


﻿-3-
of the Credit and procitrement of the civil works required for the
Project shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983,
or such later date as the Association shall establish.        The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 15 and August 15 commen'ng February 15, 1989, and ending
August 15, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on AugusL 15, 1998, to be one-half cf one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOH, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, family planning,
public health, technical and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall recruit and maintain under its
employ such number of home visitors, their supervisors and other
staff as shall be required to carry out the home-visiting program
and other programs established under the Project.


﻿(c) The Borrower shall make available to the Project Execu-
tive Director-General, to meet expenditures in respect of the
Project, cash on hand in an amount of Eb5,000, which the Bor-
rower shall replenish from time to time as may be necessary.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a #,urrency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, not later than May 1, 1979:
(a) second, on a full-time basis, a duly qualified and
competent Financial Controller from the Ministry of Finance to the
Administrative Unit in the Department of Family Planning of MOH;
(b) appoint a duly qualified, competent and experienced
Project Architect and a duly qualified, competent and experienced
Procurement Officer, both to be employed on terms and conditions
and with terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association;
(c) develop a detailed plan for the implementation, super-
vision and evaluation of the home-visiting program under the
Project satisfactory to the Association;
(d) establish an IEC Coordination Committee with membership,
powers, functions and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association to coordinate the IEC activities to be carried out
under the Project;
(e) furnish to the Association for its review a four-year
plan of action for nationwide IEC activities;
(f) furnish to the Association for its review outline
training programs for the Multipurpose Training Centers described
in Part I of the Project; and
(g) acquire all such land or rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction of the facilities included
in the Project and furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such


﻿-6-
land or rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than August 1,
1979, or such other date as may be agreeable to the Association,
furnish to the Association for its agreement, all working drawings
for the civil works to be constructed on the sites acquired by
February 1, 1979, for the Project, together with tender documents
for the said civil works.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall maintain in its employ: (i)
a duly qualified, competent and experienced person as the Project
Executive Director-General who shall be responsible for the day-
to-day management and execution of the Project and for ensuring
that components or subcomponents of the Project to be carried out
by agencies outside MOH are adequately executed; and (ii) a duly
qualified, competent and experienced person as the Program Advisor
who shall be responsible for the detailed planning of the home
visiting program, training, research, evaluation and IEC activi-
ties included in the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall promptly develop criteria,
satisfactory to the Association, for the selection of home vis-
itors and their supervisors under the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower covenants that whenever in connec-
tion with this Agreement it shall become necessary to value the
proceeds of the Credit in terms of Egyptian pounds, such valua-
tions shall be made at the Borrower's parallel market rate of
exchange, and, if such rate ceases to be applicable, at such rate
of exchange as may be agreed tv between the Borrower and the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsib2e for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1


﻿-7-
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have the separate
accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in Section
4.01 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said separate account, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) operate and maintain the facilities constructed under
the Project in accordance with appropriate administrative, engi-
neering and health care practices and with due regard to economy,
all as required in order to further the health and family planning
objectives of the Borrower; and
(b) adequately maintain or cause to be maintained the
furniture and equipment (including vehicles) included in the
Project and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof in accordance with appropriate technical and
administrative practices; and provide or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) below the ODM Agreement shall
have failed to become effective by May 31, 1979, or such other
date as the Association may establish or the right of the Borrower
to withdraw the proceeds of the ODM Grant shall have been sus-
pended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the ODM Agreement.
(b) Paragraph (a) above shall not apply if: (i) such failure
to become effective, suspension, cancellation or termination is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the ODM Agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the ODM Agreement has been duly signed on behalf of the
parties thereto; and
(b) the Borrower has made available to the Project Executive
Director-General the cash on hand described in Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date February 27, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or


﻿-9-
on a date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Economic Coopera-
tion and the Under Secretary for International and Regional
Financial Institutions of the Borrower are designated as represen-
tatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and
Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministry of Economy and             GAFEC 348 UN
Economic Cooperation
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
IND;EVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By Is/ Mamdouh Kamal Gabr
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Munir P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works (ex-              4,400,000        50%
cluding Minya)
(2) Furniture, equipment,         4,400,000        100% of foreign
and materials (ex-                            expenditures
cluding items required                        and of local
for Minya, Egyptian                           expenditures
Family Planning Asso-                         ex-factory and
ciation, kits for home                        80% of local
visitors and IEC                              expenditures
production equipment)                         for imported
items procured
locally
(3) Vehicles (ex-                4,300,000        100% of foreign
cluding vehicles                             expenditures
for Minya and for                            and of local
Egyptian Family                               expenditures
Planning Associ-                             ex-factory and
ation and the                                 80% of local
theater carav(n)                             expenditures
for imported
vehicles pro-
cured locally
(4) Professional fees             2,000,000       100%
and technical assis-
tance (excluding
Minya)


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Salaries of incre-            5,400,000       85% in 1979
mental Project staff                          65% in 1980
(excluding salaries                          45% in 1981
for Minya)                                    25% in 1982
(6) Innovative activi-            1,200,000       50%
ties included in
Part I (I) of the
Project
(7) Repayment of Project           371,000        100% of amounts
Preparation Advance                          disbursed under
the Advance
(8) Unallocated                   2,929,000
TOTAL        25,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental Project staff" means such staff
in MOH as shall be employed and maintained in the employ by the
Borrower specifically for the implementation and administration of
the Project.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 13 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) no withdrawals shall be made under Category (6) above in
respect of any innovative activity unless each proposal for such
activity shall have been approved by the Association prior to the
commencement thereof.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
7.   Each request for withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit allo-
cated to Category (5) shall be accompanied by a certificate of
expenditure, duly signed on behalf of the Borrower, which shall
specify the incremental Project staff and their salaries on
account of which the withdrawal is requested.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to support the Maternal and Child
Health Program and Family Planning Program of the Borrower,
and their implementation within the Project Governorates, through
supporting activities as hereinafter provided, and includes
the strengthening of the institutions involved in such programs.
The Project aims to ease the constraints on the Maternal
and Child Health Program and Family Planning Program of the
Borrower. This is-sought to be achieved by increasing the demand
for such programs-through IEC activities and home visiting activi-
ties. The quality of the services for the Maternal and Child
Health Program and Family Planning Program will be improved by
training of medical personnel and field workers in required
skills, of supervisory staff in management techniques and of
existing technical staff in maintenance of buildings, equipment
and vehicles. In addition to training, improvements in the supply
of health services shall be carried out through the provision of
additional clinics, equipment and vehicles. Research and evalua-
tion will be strengthened by, inter alia, establishing a Statis-
tical Unit in the Department of Family Planning of MOH and a
Research and Development Unit also in the said Department. Speci-
fically, the Project consists of the following Parts:
Part I (Financially assisted by the Association):
(A) The construction, equipping, furnishing and initial
operation within the Project Governorates of:
(1) about 38 Rural Health Units;
(2) about 8 Maternal and Child Health Centers and/or
General Health Centers; and
(3) about 5 Multipurpose Training Centers.
(B) The construction, equipping and furnishing of residen-
tial accommodation for 2 student trainees at each of
the 15 Rural Health Units selected for this purpose
in each of the Governorates of Qalubia, Kafr-el-Sheik,
Giza and Qena and at 12 Rural Health Units in the
Governorate of El-Wadi El-Gedid.


﻿- 16 -
(C) The provision of equipment to and its utilization by the
existing health facilities in the Project Governorates
except Minya comprising about 368 Rural Health Units,
133 Rural Health Centers and 40 Maternal and Child
Health Centers.
(D) The provision and utilization of the following equip-
ment, furniture and materials for IEC activities,
training and research and evaluation activities:
(1) audiovisual equipment for about 406 Rural Health
Units, 133 Rural Health Centers, 48 Maternal and
Child Health Centers and 6 Health Education
Divisions within the Project Governorates except
Minya;
(2) special equipment for the Center for Educational
Technology of the Ministry of Health of the Bor-
rower;
(3) audiovisual and training equipment and materials
for the new Multipurpose Training Centers in
the Project Governorates except Minya;
(4) one radio and one television and furniture for each
of about 32 Radio/Television Viewers and Listeners'
Clubs to be established in the Project Governorates
except Minya;
(5) films and other audiovisual materials for the
Department of Family Planning of MOH and the Health
Education Department of MOH; and
(6) special equipment for the new Research and Develop-
ment Unit and the new Statistical Unit in the
Department of Family Planning of MOH.
(E) The provision of vehicles as detailed in the Annex I
hereto.
(F) The following activities:
(1) management of the Family Planning Program, with
assistance of consultants and experts for a total
of about 4 man-years;


﻿- 17 -
(2) planning and carrying out of IEC activities, with
assistancc of consultants and experts for a total
of about 6.3 man-years;
(3) research and evaluation in primary health care and
family planning, including the development of a
management information system, with assistance of
consultants and experts for a total of about 3.5
man-years;
(4) designing of facilities, supervision of construc-
tion and procurement, with assistance of consul-
tants and experts; and
(5) designing of a training plan including methods
and curricula for training of health personnel and
other appropriate staff in maternal and child
health care and family planning, with assistance of
consultants and experts for a total of about 2
man-years.
(G) The designing of the home-visiting program satisfactory
to the Association .and the implementation thereof for
Project Governorates except Minya, with assistance of
consultants and experts.
(H) Training of selected staff of MOH in IEC activities,
research and evaluation and training methods, through
fellowships for a total of about 36 man-years.
(I) Development of innovative activities such as community
incentive schemes or schemes for effective and easy
acceptance of family planning, satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
(J) The carrying out of research in support of the Family
Planning Program and the primary health programs of MOH.
Part II (Financially assisted by ODM or another source of
finance):
(A) The construction, equipping, furnishing and initial
operation within Minya of:
(1) about 10 Rural Health Units;


﻿- 18 -
(2) one Maternal and Child Health Center ox General
HealthCentex; wand
(3) one Multipurpose Traiing Center.
(B) The construction, equipping and furnishing of. residen-
tial accommodation for 2 student trainees at each
of the 18 Rural Health Qnits select.ed for this purpose.
(C) The provision of equipment to and its utilization by the
existing health facilities in Minya-comprising about 1,4
Rural Health Units, 46. Rural.,zHeadA-h-.Centerswand.,1,9
Maternal and Ch-i1d,Health Centers.
(D) The provision of equipment", furniture *and"materials for
IEC activitteis and tratiniing as follidws:-
(1) audiovisual equipmen for about 154 Rural Health
Units, 46 Rural Health Centers and 11 Maternal and
Child Health Cen'ters in Minya , and for the Health
Education Division in that Governorate;
(2) audiovisual and training equipment and materials
for the, Multipurpoqs.e, Training,,Center to be estab-
lished in Minycl,;
(3) audiovisual. and training equipment and- furniture
for the Egypt4an -Family Planning. Association;
(4) motivational kits for about -10,500 -.home visitors;
(5) audiovisual equipment and furniture for about 9
Radio/Television Viewers and Listeners' Clubs in
Minya; and
(6) production equipment for the Center for Educational
Technology of the Ministry of, Health of the Bor-
rower.
(E) The designing of the home-visiting program, and the
implementation thereof in Minya, with assistance of
consultants and experts.
4'4
V.V
* ,   *   -,-         i'- r  - .*N
- A K*.1-j*,


﻿- 19 -
(F) The provision and utilization of vehicles as detailed
in Annex II hereto.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 20 -
ANNEX I TO SCHEDULE 2
Approximate
Number of
Name of the Agency    Type of Vehicles    Vehicles      Purpose
1. IEC Units of       vans fully equip-      12       promotion of
Health Depart-     ped with audiovi-              maternal and
ments in the       sual equipment                  child health
Project Gover-                                    program and
norates except                                     family plan-
Minya                                              ning program
2. Training Cen-      buses with seat-         5     field train-
ters in the        ing capacity of                ing
Project Gov-       about 40 passen-
ernorates          gers
except Minya
3. Rural Health       ambulance/            181      improved de-
Centers and        pick-up vans                    livery of
Maternal and                                       health, and
Child Health                                      family plan-
Centers in the                                    ning services
Project Gov-
ernorates
except Minya
4. (a) Training       mini-buses with         20      training
Centers in     seating capaci-
the Proj-      ty of about 10
ect Gover-     passengers
norates
except
Minya
(b)  (i) Train-    station wagons          1      training
ing Unit      with seating ca-
within the    pacity of about
Department    6 passengers
of Family
Planning of
MOH


﻿- 21 -
Approximate
Number of
Name of the Agency    Type of Vehicles    Vehicles      Purpose
(ii) Train-   station wagons          5      training
ing Centers   with seating ca-
in the Proj-  pacity of about
ect Gover-    6 passengers
norates ex-
cept Minya
5. (a) Research and   mini-buses with          1      research and
Development    seating capacity                evaluation
Unit to be     of about 10 pas-
established    sengers
within the
Department
of Family
Planning of
MOH
(b) Research and   station wagons          2      research and
Development    with seating ca-               evaluation
and Statisti-  pacity of about
cal Units to   6 passengers
be estabished
within the
Department
of Family
Planning of
MOH
6. Project super-     station wagons         46      supervision
visors at the      with seating ca-               of Project
District and       pacity of about                activities
Governorate        6 passengers
levels in the
Project Gover-
norates except
the Governorates
of Minya and
E1-Wadi El-Gedid
7. Department of      station wagons          4      Project man-
Family Planning    with seating ca-               agement
in MOH             pacity of about
6 passengers


﻿- 22 -
Approximate
Number of
Name of the Agency    Type of Vehicles    Vehicles     Purpose
8. Project super-     four-wheel drive        4     Project su-
visors in the      station wagons                 pervision
Governorate of     with seating ca-
El-Wadi El-Gedid   pacity of about
6 passengers


﻿- 23 -
ANNEX II TO SCHEDULE 2
Approximate
Number of
Name of the Agency    Type of Vehicles    Vehicles     Purpose
1. IEC Unit of        vans fully equip-       2      promotion of
Health De-         ped with audiovi-              maternal and
partment in        sual equipment                 child health
Minya                                             program and
family plan-
ning program
2. Egyptian Fam-      four-wheel drive        2     information
ily Planning       vans, fully equip-             and communi-
Association        ped with audio-                cation acti-
visual equipment               vities
3. Training           bus with seating        1     field
Center             capacity of ca.                training
in Minya           40 passengers
4. Rural Health       ambulance/             57     improved
Centers and        pick-up vans                   delivery
Maternal and                                      of health
Child Health                                     and family
Centers in                                        planning
Minya                                             services
5. Training           mini-buses with        4      training
Center             seating capacity
in Minya           of ca. 10 passen-
gers
6. Ministry of        theater caravan        1      promotion of
Information        equipped for per-             maternal and
and Culture        formance of pup-              child health
pet shows, folk                program and
dancing, singing               family plan-
and storytelling               ning program
7. Training           station wagon          1      training
Center             with seating
in Minya           capacity of ca.
6 passengers


﻿- 24 -
Approximate
Number of
Name of the Agency    Type of Vehicles    Vehicles      Purpose
8. Project            station wagons         11       supervision
supervisors        with seating ca-                of Project
at the Dis-        pacity of ca. 6                 activities
trict and          passengers
Governorate
levels in
Minya
9. Egyptian           station wagons         24      improved
Family             with seating ca-                delivery of
Planning           pacity of ca. 6                 family plan-
Association        passengers                      ning services
and informa-
tion activi-
ties


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
Contracts for goods and civil works shall be grouped in form
and substance satisfactory to the Association so as to encourage
competition and, with respect to contracts for goods, to permit
bulk procurement consistent with appropriate technical and pro-
curement practices.
B.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prtor to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as aiy goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight


﻿- 26 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part B of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordar.ce with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Egypt.
(3) Group C; bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿- 27 -
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works under the Project shall be procured
after advertising in local newspapers and in accordance with the
procurement procedures of the Borrower. The Borrower will ensure
that contractors tendering for the civil works are qualified and
experienced.
2.   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, contracts for
materials, furniture or equipment (including vehicles) estimated
to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less shall be let after
inviting quotations from at least three suppliers; provided,
however, that the value of all the contracts so let shall not in
the aggregate exceed $100,000 equivalent.
3.   Contracts for materials or furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $150,000 or less but more than $10,000, shall be let
after advertising locally in accordance with competitive bidding
procedures of the Borrower; provided, however, that the value of
all the contracts so let shall not in the aggregate exceed
$750,000 equivalent.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts.
With respect to all contracts for civil works, materials,
furniture and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more and all contracts for vehicles estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $10,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together


﻿- 28 -
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association acting on its own behalf or on
behalf of 0DM of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account or the ODM Grant in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
acting on its own behalf or on behalf of 0DM of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the ODM
Grant in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and, wherever applicable, the copies of
the quotations, and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 29 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination. I


