                                       Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00002747



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-93637)



                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5.5 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                       GOVERNMENT OF AFGHANISTAN

                                       FOR A

           Technical Assistance for Water-Sector Capacity Building Project



                                September 23, 2013




Environment and Water Resources Unit
Afghanistan Country Department
South Asia Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective September 4, 2013)

                   Currency Unit = AFN
                     1.00 = US$ 0.018
                   US$ 1.00 = AFN 55.57

                      FISCAL YEAR
                      July 1 – June 30


          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA          Analytical and Advisory Assistance
ARTF         Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
AWARD        Afghanistan Water Resources Technical Assistance Project
GAMS         General Algebraic Modeling System
GIS          Geographic Information System
GoA          Government of Afghanistan
LEA          Large Ensemble Approach
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MEW          Ministry of Energy and Water
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PPU          Project Preparation Unit
SCWAM        Supreme Council for Water Affairs Management
TISC         Technical and Implementation Support Consultancy
ToR          Terms of Reference
WEAP         Water Evaluation and Planning System
WRPU         Water Resources Planning Unit




                Vice President: Phillippe H. Le Houerou
              Country Director: Robert J.Saum
               Sector Manager: Herbert Acquay
          Project Team Leader: Jun Matsumoto
             ICR Team Leader: Pratibha Mistry
                                     AFGHANISTAN
             Technical Assistance for Water-Sector Capacity Building Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 28
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 29
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 30
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 34
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
                            AFGHANISTAN
      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR WATER-SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING

                                            DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Technical Assistance
Country:                  Afghanistan                 Project Name:          for Water-sector
                                                                             Capacity Building
Project ID:               P112097                     L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-93637
ICR Date:                 09/26/2013                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:       TAL                         Grantee:
                                                                             AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                          USD 5.50M                   Disbursed Amount:      USD 3.59M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 5.50M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy and Water
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process                Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:           07/08/2008       Effectiveness:                            03/23/2009
Appraisal:                                 Restructuring(s):                         02/28/2011
Approval:                 03/23/2009       Mid-term Review:         04/01/2012       05/01/2012
                                           Closing:                 03/31/2011       03/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          High
Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                            Ratings
                                                                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Unsatisfactory              Government:
                                                                             Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately                  Implementing           Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                          Unsatisfactory              Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower           Moderately
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:               Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                                Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                  None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
                                                                        100                 100
protection


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Water resource management                                                100                100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou               Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:            Robert J. Saum                       Nicholas J. Krafft
Sector Manager:              Herbert Acquay                       Karin Erika Kemper
Project Team Leader:         Jun Matsumoto                        Sanjay Pahuja
ICR Team Leader:             Pratibha Mistry
ICR Primary Author:          Pratibha Mistry


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To build GoA's (Government of Afghanistan) capacity to progressively undertake
strategic basin planning and to improve project preparation for water resources
development.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally  Actual Value
                                                Values (from        Revised   Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target  Completion or
                                                documents)           Values  Target Years
                  Water Resources Planning Unit (WRPU) and Project Preparation Unit (PPU)
Indicator 1 :
                  staffed with adequately trained staff and consultants
Value
quantitative or   0                         No target specified 14             13
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/24/2009                 03/24/2009         12/22/2010    03/31/2013
Comments          Thirteen staff were in place in the WRPU and PPU at the project close. Two staff
(incl. %          members had left after the project close and many were seeking other job
achievement)      opportunities.
                  Knowledge base and analytical tools developed for Kabul and other targeted
Indicator 2 :
                  basins
Value
quantitative or   0                         No target specified 4              4.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/24/2009                 03/24/2009          12/22/2010     03/31/2013
Comments          Geo-database in GIS was established for the Kabul, Panj-Amu, Northern and
(incl. %          Harirod-Murghab Basins. The geodatabase for the Helmand Basin was ninety
achievement)      percent complete by project close.
Indicator 3 :     Investment priorities in Kabul and other targeted basins identified
Value
quantitative or   0                         No target specified 4              2
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/24/2009                03/24/2009            12/22/2010   03/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Investments plans were completed for the Kabul and Panj-Amu Basins.
achievement)
                  Number of preparation studies completed for priority investment options (at least
Indicator 4 :
                  to pre-feasibility levels)
Value
                                                                  No target
quantitative or   0                         No target specified                2
                                                                  specified
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/24/2009                03/24/2009           12/22/2010     03/31/2013
Comments          PPU assisted in the supervision of the consultant recruited by MEW to evaluate
(incl. %          dam sites under the 110 Small and Medium Dams Project. PPU assisted in the
achievement)      preparation of ToRs for further studies for two sub-projects under this project.
                  Number of staff trained on key water resources issues (including integrated water
Indicator 5 :
                  resources management, trans boundary water management)
Value
quantitative or 0                          No target specified 14            11
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/24/2009                   03/24/2009          12/22/2010    03/31/2013
Comments        Staff was trained to some extent on elements of water resources management.
(incl. %       There was no training conducted on trans boundary water management. Even
achievement)   though staff was trained, most are not fully functional to work independently in
               their roles.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                         Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value                          Revised
                                             approval                          Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                           documents)                          Target Years

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/24/2009         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                       1.00
  2    05/28/2010     Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                1.07
                           Moderately
  3    01/03/2011                                Moderately Satisfactory                 1.09
                         Unsatisfactory
  4    07/12/2011     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.11
                           Moderately              Moderately
  5    01/28/2012                                                                        1.16
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
  6    06/27/2012     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.41
  7    12/02/2012     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.88
                                                   Moderately
  8    02/23/2013     Moderately Satisfactory                                            1.88
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately              Moderately
  9    03/30/2013                                                                        2.49
                         Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The closing date was extended
                                                     for two years to March 2013.
 02/28/2011       N       MU    MS            1.09
                                                     The PDO and components
                                                     remained unchanged.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country Context. At the time of project preparation in 2008 Afghanistan was in
a stage of post-conflict development. After decades of conflict, in 2004 the constitution
was adopted and presidential elections were held. However the security situation
remained problematic, originating from a complex range of reasons, from anti-
government groups linked to the former Taliban regime, groups linked to Al-Qaeda,
remnants of militias allied to commanders, and criminal groups often associated with the
narcotics trade. Nevertheless substantial progress was being made to rehabilitate
damaged infrastructure, extend road networks, increase school enrolment, improve access
to health services, and improve financial services.

2.      Government Strategy. The Afghanistan National Development Strategy (2008-
2013) recognized the national importance of water resources, and made improved water
management a high priority. GoA had already taken steps to address shortcomings in
governance, and to address urgent priority investments through donor funded projects.
The Supreme Council for Water Affairs Management (SCWAM) was established to
coordinate and overcome the problems of diverse ministerial responsibilities for water
management. A Technical Secretariat was established to develop new water laws and to
develop a consistent set of policies for water management. Under the draft Water Law,
principles of integrated water resource management and decentralized decision making
were introduced, including the establishment of river basin organizations, and allowance
for stakeholder participation at different levels.

3.       The Government of Afghanistan’s (GoA) highest priority programs included the
Institutional Building and Capacity Development Program and the National Water
Resources Development Program. The Institutional Building and Capacity Development
Program was to focus on the institutional and human capacity development of water
resources management, as well as infrastructure development at national, river basin and
sub basin levels. The National Water Resources Development Program was developed
for the preparation of a national water resources development plan. This plan was to
cover the development of water resources for the social, environmental and economic
needs of the country, as well as: (i) elaborating river basin development and management
plans, fostering ministry and water users’ capacity for on-farm and off-farm water
management; (ii) preparing for discussions on trans-boundary water issues with some
neighbor countries; (iii) supporting analytical capacity and research; (iv) enabling private
investments in the water sector; and (v) proper planning and implementation of
infrastructure for rain and flood water harvesting, supplementary irrigation, groundwater
recharge and soil stabilization.

4.     Rationale for Bank involvement. The Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (2007-2008)
recognized that the growing globalization and liberalization of regional economies
presented an opportunity for Afghanistan to exploit its location at the heart of Central



                                             1
Asia to promote its own, and regional development, through enhanced regional
cooperation. The Bank had identified projects in water resources management as a
promising area for regional cooperation, where trust could be built and a track record for
regional co-operation could be developed.

5.     The GoA began preparation for large scale development of the country’s water
resources. There are five major river basins in Afghanistan: Kabul, Panj-Amu, Harirud-
Murghab, Northern and Helmand. Of these, all the basins, besides the Northern Basin, are
shared with neighboring countries. High variability in water availability made the need to
develop storage and delivery infrastructure critical for growth of irrigated agriculture,
hydropower, and industry, and to provide water supply for a growing, and increasingly
urbanizing population. Feasibility studies were completed or were underway for small,
medium and large water infrastructure projects. Since the country had not initiated any
major water infrastructure in decades, there was limited capacity within the Ministry of
Energy and Water (MEW) to undertake planning and analysis for water resources
investments.

6.      New water resources development projects had to be prepared to international
standards if they were to attract donor financing. Donors had committed to support the
water sector, but found that the investments proposed were ad hoc, and were not analyzed
or prioritized within the framework of the overall water resources of the basin. There was
uncertainty about which projects were a priority to fund, how the proposed investments
would affect the viability of other proposed investments in the basin, whether the projects
were economically, environmentally and socially justifiable, and what the impact on
trans-boundary water sharing would be.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

7.     The Project Development Objective was: To build GoA’s capacity to
progressively undertake strategic basin planning and to improve project preparation for
water resources development. The key indicators linked to this PDO were:

   a) Water Resources Planning Unit (WRPU) and Project Preparation Unit (PPU)
      staffed with adequately trained staff and consultants
   b) Knowledge base and analytical tools developed for Kabul and other targeted
      basins
   c) Investment priorities in Kabul and other targeted basins identified
   d) Number of preparation studies completed for priority investment options (at least
      to pre-feasibility levels)
   e) Number of staff trained on key water resources issues (including integrated water
      resources management , trans boundary water management)

The original proposal document did not have a results framework and did not indicate
any targets for the above key indicators. Targets as indicated in the Implementation
Supervision Report of December 2010 are as follows:




                                             2
                                                                             Target
                          Indicator                             Units       December
                                                                              2010
a) WRPU and PPU staffed with adequately trained staff and     Number of        14
   consultants                                                staff
b) Knowledge base and analytical tools developed for Kabul    Number of         4
   and other targeted basins                                  basins
c) Investment priorities in Kabul and other targeted basins   Number of         4
   identified                                                 basins
d) Number of preparation studies completed for priority       Number of   Not specified
   investment options (at least to pre-feasibility levels)    studies
e) Number of staff trained on key water resources issues      Number of        14
   (including integrated water resources management, trans-   staff
   boundary water management)


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

8.    The project was restructured in March 2011for a time extension of two years to
March 2013. The PDO and indicators remained unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

9.   The primary beneficiaries of the project were the Water Resources Planning Unit
(WRPU) and the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) of the Ministry of Energy and Water
(MEW). Component 1 of the project was targeted specially at the capacity building of
WRPU and Component 2 at the capacity building of PPU.

10.    Secondary beneficiaries identified during appraisal were the Supreme Council for
Water Management (SCWAM) Technical Secretariat, specifically for building capacity
for conducting trans-boundary water negotiations, and the river basin agencies, as and
when they were established under implementation of the new Water Law.

1.5 Original Components

11.    The project was designed in two phases, each phase to last two years. Phase 1 was
to address the immediate need for initiating a core process of strategic multi-sector water
resources development planning. Phase 2 was conceived to primarily finance the
preparatory studies for the priority investments identified under Phase 1. The ARTF grant,
as described in the components below, was approved for Phase 1.

Component A: Capacity Building for Multi-Sectoral River Basin Planning
(US$ 990,000) (18% of project cost)




                                              3
12.      This component was targeted primarily at the WRPU, but included provision for
SCWAM and proposed river basin agencies. The component consisted of three major
activities:
     Knowledge base development and planning analysis
     Technical support,
     Human resources Development

13.     This component supported the development of knowledge bases to assemble all
relevant data on each basin into a Geographic Information System (GIS). The data was to
be used to develop analytical tools to aid in investment prioritization for water resources
development. In addition, the human resources were to be developed through training,
internships, and partnerships with other institutions. A dedicated team, including
participants from other relevant ministries, was to be trained on topics related to trans-
boundary waters, for example, hydrology, water resources economics, international water
law and negotiations. A workspace was to be established for WRPU, information
technology and other office and field equipment provided, and an allowance was made
for introducing performance based allowances for staff. Through the implementation of
these activities, the project was to progressively build capacity for strategic basin
planning.

Component B: Preparation of Water Resources Development Investments
(US$ 385,000) (7% of project cost)

14.    This component was targeted at PPU. The following were the major activities for
this component:
     Basin level scoping (reconnaissance-level) studies
     Project preparation studies
     Technical support
     Human Resources Development

15.     The focus of this component was to prepare pre-feasibility studies and conduct
economic analysis, social and environmental assessments for priority projects. The PPU
was to design and manage studies for water resources development. This included
preparation of Terms of Reference (ToR), review of consultant outputs, management of
procurement, and financial management for contracts. In addition, allowance was made
for building the skills of PPU staff, establishing partnerships, and provision of office
space, equipment and performance allowances for staff. By conducting these activities, it
was expected that project preparation for water resources development would be
improved.

Component C: Technical and Implementation Support (US$ 3,680,000) (67% of
project cost)

16.   The primary activity under this component was the Technical and Implementation
Support Consultancy (TISC). The TISC was expected to i) build capacity of WRPU and
PPU using suitably qualified consultants, ii) provide technical supervision of WRPU and


                                             4
PPU, and iii) provide project management support, including procurement, financial
management and monitoring.

1.6 Revised Components

17.   The project was restructured in March 2011for a time extension of two years to
March 2013. The PDO and components remained unchanged at the project restructuring.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.    No other significant changes were made.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis.

19.      Component A: Capacity Building for Multi-Sectoral River Basin Planning
The project was developed as a follow on to the Bank financed Analytical and Advisory
Assistance (AAA) study ‘Scoping Strategic Options for Development of the Kabul River
Basin.’ During preparation of this AAA, the Bank team was engaged in data collection
for the Kabul River Basin with WRPU staff, for the development of an optimization
model to analyze investment options. This process allowed this team of water resources
specialists to understand firsthand the challenges of water resources planning and
analysis in Afghanistan, and allowed them the insight to design Component A as a means
to institutionalize a river basin planning approach that was demonstrated in this study.
The transition from a Bank executed AAA to the design of a capacity building program
to enable the WRPU to conduct similar analysis required a shift in analysis towards
assessing the baseline level of capacity, developing learning objectives to achieve pre-
determined organizational competencies, and developing a systematic learning program,
within the country constraints, to achieve these objectives. This analysis was not present
for the design of both Components A and B.

20.     Component B: Preparation of Water Resources Development Investments.
Component B required civil engineering expertise for its design, to systematically
analyze the existing project portfolio, to determine what was required to convert this
portfolio of projects to a standard that would attract donor financing. This background
analysis did not guide the project preparation but was designed as part of the project
implementation.

21.     Component C: Technical and Implementation Support. Since Component C
was designed to support the implementation of the entire project, it mirrored the level of
background analysis available for the technical design of Components A and B. The
mechanism of using one consultancy to deliver implementation support in Component C
was based on the implementation arrangements for other Bank projects in Afghanistan at
that time.


                                            5
Assessment of the project design

22.     Component A: Capacity Building for Multi-Sectoral River Basin Planning.
The design of Component A was technically well conceived and was based on fairly
detailed analysis of the situation in Afghanistan with respect to the inadequate knowledge
base on water resources of the major river systems of the country. It focused on
developing databases for targeted basins, which would serve as a foundation for the
preparation of investment plans, based on optimization models, to maximize water
productivity in each basin. The mechanism selected to achieve this, namely on-the-job
training by a skilled TISC, was not a prudent choice in the context of a post-conflict state
where good quality consulting services in-country were scarce. In addition, the baseline
capacity within MEW was low, with many WRPU and PPU staff not being proficient in
English, and basic computer skills. Within this context, the project design to build in-
house capacity for highly technical model development, over out-sourcing this to
specialists, for example, and allowing only a two-year project duration to achieve this,
was unrealistic.

23.     Component B: Preparation of Water Resources Development Investments.
Component B was not based on any analysis and did not reflect the substantive efforts
required to prepare feasibility studies of both medium and large multi-purpose projects.
At the time of preparation, there were a total of 28 projects in the water resources
investment portfolio: 11 ongoing project studies; 8 project studies in the process of
tendering for consulting services; and 9 project studies in the pipeline. The objective of
the project was to build PPU’s capacity to produce a stream of water infrastructure
projects that were designed to an international standard acceptable to potential financiers,
and that were economically, socially and environmentally sound. The project design was
not very clear in terms of what the project would do to improve the existing portfolio,
what would be done to support new studies, what specific tasks and capacities were
required to achieve a portfolio that was eligible for donor financing.

24.     Component C: Technical and Implementation Support. The primary element
in achieving the project development objective was the Technical and Implementation
Support Consultancy (TISC). However, the Terms of Reference (ToR) and the key
personnel identified for this consultancy did not adequately represent the project
requirements. Since this consultancy was designed as the backbone of the project, it was
important for the contract to have been awarded, or nearly-awarded, at the start of the
project. Procurement delays resulted in the selection of a TISC that was not entirely
adequate for the purpose of the project. The contract was awarded two months prior to
the original Grant closing date. This resulted in the need for an extension to the Grant
closing date by two years, resulting in an effective project start in February 2011 instead
of March 2009. Given that the ToR was deficient in defining the qualifications and
disciplines of key professional staff required from the TISC, and the original time-frame
of two years was highly unrealistic, performance of the TISC was unsatisfactory leading
to sub-standard project outputs. Mitigating actions, such as having the award of the
contract as an effectiveness condition, or splitting the contract into smaller contracts, or




                                              6
increasing the project duration to allow for procurement delays, were not considered
during preparation.

25.     Adequacy of government’s commitment but inadequate consultations. The
Bank’s AAA on the Kabul River Basin was a working example of the value of
undertaking basin planning systematically using a modeling approach, which was
appreciated by the government at the time. The WRPU and PPU already existed within
the MEW and there was a commitment to further build their capacity. The PPU had been
the recipient of capacity building through an Asian Development Bank project that had
just closed, and the government was interested in further support for the salaries and
capacities of these staff. However, the project was prepared on a fast track over a 6 month
period from Oct 2008 to approval in March 2009, leaving insufficient time for detailed
needs assessments and consultation with the government.

26.     Risk assessment. The entire implementation of the project was dependent on the
procurement of a quality TISC that had the requisite specialist skills in water resources
planning, modeling and analysis; and infrastructure planning, design and construction.
This approach was taken as a mitigation measure for the substantial risk to the project
implementation from the weak technical and institutional capacity of the implementing
agency. The risk of delays in the recruitment of TISC was rated as substantial, and the
global procurement notice was released, and the ToR and EoI were prepared during
appraisal, with view to completing bid evaluation before effectiveness of the grant. A
technical consultant was proposed to assist in the procurement. In light of the importance
of the TISC consultancy, it was critical for the contract to have been awarded or being
close to being awarded, at the start of the project. In addition, the strategy of having one
large contract on which the entire project implementation depended further exacerbated
the risk of implementation delays, which was not recognized during project preparation.
The risk assessment did not take account of the limited financial management and
procurement capacity of the implementing agency. The risk assessment recognized the
security situation in the country as an impediment to attracting consultants, but there were
no mitigating measures considered.

2.2 Implementation

27.      Implementation delays. The grant period of two years was unrealistic for
procurement of the TISC, deployment to the field, and completion of the first phase
activities. From the shortlist, only one firm submitted a proposal. The technical proposal
was not accepted since it was deemed non-responsive to the ToR but one year of
implementation had already passed and there was significant pressure to get the TISC on
board, in spite of the clear indication from the quality of the technical proposal, that the
TISC did not have the requisite capability to undertake the assignment. At this point there
was an opportunity to re-package the contract and rebid. However, MEW and the Bank
made the decision to continue and worked with the TISC to correct the deficiencies in the
technical proposal.

28.   Further delays were caused during contract negotiations, due to increased
demands for security arrangements, disagreement on the qualifications of the proposed


                                             7
technical team, and issues with the acceptance of the TISC’s bank guarantee. The
prolonged procurement process also highlighted the low capacity within the government
to conduct bid evaluation and contract negotiation. Bank supervision was in flux during
this time, with the transition from one task leader to another. If the contract had not been
signed at that point, there was opportunity to cancel the activity, or to redesign it.
However, the no objection for the contract signing was given by the Bank, for a four year
consulting contract, in spite of only two months remaining for the grant closing in March
2011. The project was restructured for a time extension of only two years to March 2013.
The restructuring was an opportunity to re-look at the project in the context of the delays
over the past two years. However, with the signing of the TISC contract, the new Bank
supervision team had little recourse but to go ahead with the project as it was designed,
and the project activities remained unchanged at the restructuring.

29.     Implementation quality. The TISC did not mobilize suitably qualified experts to
the field. After contract signing, it was a further eight months before the inception report
was finalized, and for the TISC to begin working in earnest. The TISC was unable and
unwilling to mobilize individuals with sufficient experience in simulation and
optimization modeling, as well as a team leader with the experience and attitude to
constructively move the project forward. This was clear by the inability of the TISC to
produce an inception report that was responsive to the needs of the project. After the long
time that it took to mobilize the TISC, it was found that their performance was
unsatisfactory and was hampering project performance.

30.     The Bank actively supervised the project after restructuring, working with the
TISC to improve the quality of the inception report, actively calling for better project
management support from MEW, and strongly insisting for the removal of the poorly
performing TISC team leader. After the team leader was replaced and a number of short
term specialists were recruited and deployed to Kabul, the performance of the project
began to improve. Effective project implementation only took place over a period of
fifteen months, from acceptance of the inception report in January 2012 to the grant close
in March 2013. Before this time there were few effective project activities to review, and
the Bank could only conduct its mid-term review in May 2012. At that point, with less
than one year left for implementation, the Bank supervision continued to focus on the
thorough review of the project outputs to assure some level of quality for the client.

31.     Project delays created conflicting objectives between conducting on-the-job
training and the completion of outputs. The outputs of the WRPU and PPU work
programs were as important as the capacity building process and the content of the
training delivered. But as the time pressure to produce outputs increased, the time of the
TISC resources was dedicated to completing the output, at the cost of the capacity
building of the MEW staff.

32.     Even though capacity building for trans-boundary water was not explicitly stated
in the project development objective, it was nevertheless an important aspect of the
project, both in terms of the Bank’s strategic priority to develop regional co-operation,
and recognition by the GoA of its obligation to notify its neighbors as an upstream



                                             8
riparian on four of its five river basins. This was particularly pertinent if infrastructure
investments were to be financed by international donors and financiers. The project
intended to provide training to SCWAM to enable them to negotiate cooperative
agreements with riparian countries, and respond to requests and notifications from other
countries when they develop infrastructure in their countries. In addition to the analytical
skills required within WRPU, it was important for SCWAM to acquire knowledge and
skills on, for example, international water law, water economics, negotiations and
diplomacy. Even though the government reported that the long delayed formation of a
multi-disciplinary team in MEW to handle riparian issues was taking shape, no activities
were undertaken under this project. The issue of trans-boundary water had great political
sensitivity during the duration of the project, and the opportunity to build capacity under
the project was not pursued.

33.      Project management. Project management for the project was weak. There was
little ownership for the project from MEW and little support for overcoming internal
bureaucratic hurdles faced by the project. This was demonstrated by the procurement and
financial management challenges faced in using Ministry departments for the project, the
denial of permission for staff to undergo training out of the country, the lack of
commitment to dedicate the time of WRPU and PPU staff to the project over other
Ministerial tasks, and the lack of commitment to the supervision of building construction
for the fourth floor office extension. Before the MEW organizational restructuring, the
functions for both water and energy were combined in the planning unit, resulting in the
dilution of focus on the water resources capacity building. It was only in the last months
of the project, after MEW Director of Water Programs became project director, that there
was momentum from the implementing agency to maintain the capacity built and further
develop it to manage water resources more effectively.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

34.     Design. Both the original proposal document and the project restructuring paper
did not have a results framework, and lacked clear targets for the indicators proposed.
The five PDO indicators proposed were simple output indicators and could not be used to
adequately determine the progress of the project towards the achievement of the
development objective. There was no clear rationale for how the use of these output
indicators related to project outcomes, and the eventual achievement of the development
objective to build the capacity of GoA. The indicators were not specific, for example the
measure of what constituted ‘adequately’ trained staff was not defined. There was no
allowance in the project design to define the parameters of what was meant by ‘capacity’
and there was no mechanism developed to verify whether capacity had been built.

35.     Implementation and utilization. The project did not establish an M&E system
and there were no systems and processes established within the Ministry to use data to
determine whether the project’s objectives were being met. There was no methodology
established for the evaluation of the capacity building activities.




                                             9
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.    Environment and Social safeguards. Since this was a capacity building project,
there were no direct social and environmental impacts. The project was designed to build
processes to mainstream social and environmental management in the design of priority
investments under Component B. However, there was no specific capacity built in the
PPU that incorporated environmental and social analysis, or staff hired for this purpose.

37.     Procurement. Procurement procedures hampered project progress. The use of the
Ministry’s Procurement Department resulted in inordinate procurement delays, even for
works and small value goods. The procurement department, which services the entire
Ministry under the rules of the National Procurement Manual, was not well versed in
Bank procurement procedures. In addition, the procurement staff were not familiar with
the technical nature of the items procured under the project, and were not adequately
staffed to handle documents in English.

38.     Financial Management. Before the deployment of TISC, financial management
was poor. Replenishment applications were not submitted on a periodic basis, financial
reports were not prepared, and no bank book or fixed assets register was maintained. The
use of the centralized department for approving and making payments was time-
consuming and contributed to disbursement delays. The project was not able to disburse
funds because the Ministry of Finance was not processing any payments due to non-
receipt of reconciliation of the annual government accounts from MEW. Processing times
improved after TISC began preparing the required documents to facilitate payments. The
Ministry’s Internal Audit team did not have sufficient capacity, and AWARD eventually
utilized the internal audit service of the Bank financed Irrigation Restoration and
Development Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase


39.     The poor performance of Phase 1, together with the GoA’s lack of commitment to
developing the pipeline of water resources investments to international standards, led to
the decision not to continue with Phase 2. This was particularly with reference to GoA’s
decision to go ahead with the detailed design of Shatoot Dam. From the investment
prioritization study for the Kabul River Basin, the Shatoot Dam emerged as a priority
investment. The Bank agreed to upgrade the feasibility study to a standard suitable for
international financing, as part of Phase 2 to the AWARD project. It was recognized that
this would require further analysis, particularly social, environmental and economic
studies, which would require further time to implement. However, GoA conceded to
political pressure to go ahead with the detailed design without due diligence to social and
environmental issues, leading to the Bank withdrawing its support and closing the project.

40.     Effective implementation of the project was fifteen months, from acceptance of
the TISC’s Inception Report to the grant close date. All the outputs for the project were
delivered during this time frame. At the time of the project close, the project was
gathering momentum. The closure of the project resulted in a break of the positive


                                            10
momentum created, in terms of further learning, and the enthusiasm and motivation of
the beneficiaries within PPU and WRPU. The sustainability of the program depended
heavily on the retention of trained staff. The departure of key staff will have a significant
impact on the continuity of institutional knowledge of the team. The Afghanistan country
context is one of transition over the next year, and the Bank will consider supporting the
Ministry under projects in the pipeline.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

41.     Relevance of Objectives. The Government of Afghanistan’s National Priority
Programs (NPP), presented at the Kabul Conference in 2010, provides a framework for
resource allocation around the country’s priorities in growth, governance and service
delivery. The World Bank’s Interim Strategy Note for the period FY12-FY14 sets out the
Bank’s engagement in the water sector in the context of the National Priority Programs.
Consistent with its objectives during appraisal, the Bank remains committed to
supporting regional cooperation for water management, and the national level policy
dialogue and framework for investments in the sector. The management of water
resources, within the context of a basin approach is particularly important as the Bank
engages in new projects to productively use water resources to further the development
objectives of the country. This refers specifically to Bank support for the development of
small multi-purpose dams to increase water availability for irrigation systems, and plans
to invest in urban water systems in Kabul. The Bank intends to pay increasing attention to
the impact on environment and climate change.

42.      The objectives of the project remain highly relevant in the context of the GoA’s
current national development priorities, as well as the Bank’s role in supporting these
objectives. The two-fold objective of this project, to build capacity for basin planning,
and to improve project preparation for investments to develop water resources, are
critical for the future development projects in agriculture, water supply and disaster
management. Projects cannot be planned and prioritized with a degree of confidence
without a comprehensive knowledge base, understanding the behavior of the system
under different climate and development scenarios, and identification of risk and
vulnerability to the resource and its development,. The AWARD project sought to begin
to prepare the government to engage with donors, and enable them to respond to their
analytical requirements for project justification, effectiveness, efficiency, equity and
sustainability.

43.    Relevance of Design. In spite of the definite need to engage in the sector, and the
relevance of the PDO, the complexity of the project design was not relevant to the
context of Afghanistan at the time. Contextual factors of the project design included the
ambition to build in-house capacity for complex basin modeling where the base level of
capacity was very low, and the need for these skills to be developed in-house, rather than
being out-sourced, was not established convincingly. On-the- job training was based on
the premise of full-time consulting resources, or even short term consulting resources,



                                             11
being able to work in Kabul on a day to day basis, without taking account of the
unwillingness of many consultants to risk the security environment. There was a definite
focus in the design and allocation of project resources towards Component A. The need
to develop capacity within GoA to ensure that water resources infrastructure is designed
appropriately, was perhaps even more relevant considering the quality of the pipeline that
already existed, and the high risk and irreversible impacts of water resources investments.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective 1: To build capacity to progressively undertake strategic basin planning

44.     The project created effective capacity in the WRPU in the use of Geographic
Information Systems (GIS). Comprehensive atlases were created for Kabul, Panj-Amu,
Northern and Harirud-Murghab River Basins, and ninety percent of the atlas was
complete for the Helmand Basin. The atlases for the Harirud-Murghab Basin and the
Helmand Basin were developed entirely by the WRPU, independent of the TISC,
indicating an effective capacity building outcome for GIS-based knowledge base
development. The WRPU is the source of the most comprehensive basin data available in
Afghanistan, and they continue to support other projects that require basin data. They
have developed effective relationships with other ministries to source and update the data,
and with other project teams to ensure that data generated from other projects will be
passed on to WRPU for continued use in Afghanistan.

45.     Capacity was created in WRPU in the use of the Water Evaluation and Planning
(WEAP) model for basin planning. The WEAP model was setup for the Kabul and Panj-
Amu Basins, which was then used to analyze the investment plans for these basins. Staff
within WRPU are able to confidently run the WEAP models setup for the Kabul and
Panj-Amu Basins. However, WRPU was not sufficiently capacitated to independently set
up a similar model for another basin, and especially to conduct the economic cost-benefit
analysis used to identify investment options with the highest net benefits. The Panj-Amu
model and investment plan were developed in the last three months of the project
implementation and there was little on-the-job training as the TISC focused on
completing the output. Nonetheless WEAP proved to be a useful simulation model for
basin planning, in that it was easy to use and configure, and had a clear user interface to
input and view data. It became an effective training tool to explain integrated water
resource management issues. The ease of use and the development of in-house skills have
resulted in MEW requesting other projects to adopt WEAP as the preferred basin
planning tool, and to handover models developed for other basins to WRPU for on-going
analysis.

46.    Although effective as a simulation model, WEAP has shortcomings as an
optimization model. Optimization was attempted for the Kabul River basin investment
plan using a Large Ensemble Approach (LEA), where a large number of runs
(approximately 25,000) were performed in which a range of parameters were varied. The
LEA was used to generate a database for the analysis of various basin development
scenarios. The Large Ensemble Approach may not have been the best approach for basin
optimisation. WEAP was correctly used in the project to perform the water balance of a


                                            12
basin. The hydrological parameters obtained from WEAP could have been used as input
to the optimization model to be solved by General Algebraic Modeling System (GAMS),
which had already been developed for the Kabul River Basin during the Bank’s AAA
study. However, the TISC did not have sufficient expertise in optimisation to recognise
that this analysis could have been done more easily by updating and running the existing
GAMS model for the Kabul River basin. A significant amount of time was spent on the
LEA, which was not entirely necessary, and could have been dedicated to other project
activities.

47.     In spite of some capacity for basin planning having been created within WRPU
with the use of WEAP, this fell short of the level that was originally conceived in the
project design. The intention of the project was to develop a suite of simulation models,
optimization models and models for conducting multi-criteria analysis. These were to be
combined using a decision support system to facilitate decisions on basin planning for a
range of operational, climate and investment scenarios. WEAP was a useful tool created
for simulation, but the appropriateness of the optimization tool created may be questioned.
In spite of a good start made towards an analytic basin planning approach, the objective
as conceived at the project design was not fully met in the project.

Objective 2: To build capacity to improve project preparation for water resources
development

48.     A review of a sample of eight existing feasibility studies was conducted by
engineering consultants. Even though the review was very useful in highlighting the
deficiencies in the way feasibility studies were currently being done, and review
checklists were developed that PPU could use to review feasibility studies in the future,
the study was conducted as a desktop review. The consultant did not work from Kabul.
Training was conducted on the use of the checklist developed, but there was no on-the-
job training conducted.

49.     A comprehensive set of design guidelines and manuals were developed, around
which a training program was developed. The training program was organized to take
place in Dubai, since many experts were not willing to travel to Kabul due to the security
situation. However, the participants were not granted permission by the Ministry to attend
the training program. The training was arranged and the trainers waited in Dubai for the
participants to arrive, but the participants were not able to attend.

50.    Capacity was built around the procurement process for a number of studies. The
PPU participated in the review of contractors’ technical and financial proposal
submissions for Amu Darya River Emergency Erosion Protection project, participated in
the procurement of design consultants, and supervision of the consultant during detailed
design for the construction of the fourth floor offices built under the project. Some
capacity was built within PPU on the mechanics of the bidding process and they are
being asked to participate in the procurement process for other projects in the Ministry by
serving on bid evaluation committees.




                                            13
51.     The deployment of an experienced civil engineer by TISC based in Kabul with
the requisite skills and commitment to capacity building was effective. He was
considered invaluable within MEW and often provided advice and guidance for non-
project related activities. He was able to respond to MEW’s needs as they arose, and was
able to provide guidance to PPU on a day to day basis, depending on their current work
demands. TISC worked with PPU and the 110 Small and Medium Dams consultant on
pre-feasibility studies to select 14 dams of height less than 30 meters for feasibility
studies and detailed design, which will be done in future and are required to be
supervised by PPU. The upgrade of Shatoot Feasibility study was intended to provide on-
the job training on feasibility study development, however this activity was dropped at
project close.

52.      Training began from a very low base, where many PPU members could not speak
English at the beginning of the project. Whereas on-the-job training with the resident
civil engineering consultant was effective to some degree over approximately 15 months
of effective project implementation, the PPU is not yet proficient in conducting these
activities independently.

53.     In spite of the GoA’s interest in using the basin approach to plan investments, the
development of water resources was a high priority of the government, and with that the
political pressure to proceed with infrastructure development. There appeared to be a rush
to get as many studies and detailed designs completed as possible, with less emphasis and
ownership on spending time and resources to get such studies up to international
standards. By the end of the project, the portfolio consisted of thirty five projects, five at
detailed design, four contracted as design and build contracts, fourteen at feasibility
design stage, and ten at pre-feasibility stage. However none of these projects had
economic, environmental or social assessments to the extent that could be considered
suitable for donor financing.


3.3 Efficiency

54.     There was no economic or financial analysis done during preparation of the
ARTF proposal. At the end of the four year project period, a total of US$ 3,09m had been
disbursed, which was 61% of the project allocation for two years. Seventy eight percent
of this disbursement was against the TISC consultancy. For the amount spent on the
generation of technical outputs, the quality of the outputs was not to the standard
envisaged for the project. The further efforts required developing the requisite analytical
tools and to continue to build the capacity of the WRPU and PPU to effectively utilize
these tools independently indicates that funds were inefficiently spent, and a substantially
greater value for money could have been obtained with a project that was appropriately
designed and effectively implemented.

55.      The undisbursed portion was predominantly for overseas training courses,
purchase of satellite imagery, data processing and optimization software, specialized
individual consultancies, and office equipment. Many of these relate to more specialized
activities provided under the project design that were not achievable in the project


                                             14
context. The substantial unutilized training allocation points to the lack of commitment
from MEW to grant the requisite permission required for staff to leave Afghanistan for
training purposes.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

56.     The project remains highly relevant to the sector context in Afghanistan. Water
resources are highly under-developed and the strategic development of water resources
has far reaching development impacts in many sectors, including agriculture, energy,
industry and domestic water supply. The project objectives are consistent with the
Government of Afghanistan’s National Priority Programs (NPP), as well as World
Bank’s Interim Strategy Note for the period FY12-FY14, which outlines how the Bank
would extend support for the NPP. Relevance: Highly Satisfactory.

57.     Within this context, the project did not sufficiently meet the development
objective to allow the GoA to undertake strategic basin planning, or to prepare
investments that are ready for international financing. After four years of implementation,
the project produced some results, and built some capacity towards establishing an
integrated water resources management approach. However, these results were hardly to
the level required for systematic and comprehensive analysis to support the basin
development decisions that the government very urgently needs to make. PDO:
Moderately Unsatisfactory, Efficiency: Unsatisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
58.     The project did not specifically take account of gender disparities in the Ministry
in the design of the capacity building initiatives within WRPU and PPU. Two women out
of the total of fourteen staff were trained under the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

59.     WRPU and PPU are fully integrated into the organizational structure of MEW.
The units now fall under the Director of Water Projects, rather than General Director-
Planning, resulting in greater recognition of the value of the two units. Over the short
actual implementation period, some capacity was built within WRPU, and to a lesser
degree in PPU.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
No unintended outcomes or impacts were identified.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
No Beneficiary Survey or Stakeholder Workshop was held.



                                              15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

60.      Skills are concentrated with a few key individuals within the WRPU and PPU
teams. The sustainability of the program depends heavily on the retention of trained staff.
With the project close, and the cessation of supplemented salaries supported by the
project, staff were seeking other opportunities outside of the government, and even
outside the water sector. A major concern at project close was the potential loss of the
skills that had been built. The departure of key staff will have a significant impact on the
continuity of institutional knowledge of the team.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Unsatisfactory

61.      The project was prepared to an expedited timeline, resulting in a lack of analysis
of the baseline level of capacity that existed, the developmental needs for the sector, and
appropriate activities to meet those needs, in the context of the post-conflict environment
in Afghanistan. Even though risks were identified, especially related to procurement, they
were not adequately accounted for in the decision making for implementation. The
difficulty of attracting quality expertise to do capacity building in the high risk security
environment of Afghanistan was underestimated. The lack of specificity in the type of
skills required in the TISC and their level of commitment required for the project became
a major impediment to the achievement of the development objective. The project
timeline was overly optimistic and did not take into account the full risks of procurement
delays. Though the development objectives were relevant, there was a complete lack of
appropriate indicators and targets to ensure that the development results were precisely
articulated and measured.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

62.     The Bank’s supervision performance in the first two years of implementation was
unsatisfactory. The Bank conducted only three supervision missions in the first two years
of the project implementation. The Bank had opportunities to advise the client to
restructure and rebid the TISC contract, but time pressures created incentives to push
ahead with a TISC that was sub-optimal. Regular supervision at the start of the project
could have contributed to more timely resolution of the contractual issues the Client was
facing with the TISC. In the context of this consultancy being the backbone of the entire
project, further proactive action by the Bank could have resulted in a greater degree of
progress towards achievement of the PDO in the first two years of implementation.


                                             16
Ratings tended to be optimistic, and implementation performance continued to be rated as
moderately satisfactory, in spite of less than a fifth of the grant amount being disbursed.
Bank supervision did provide capacity building support to WRPU, even before the TISC
was appointed.

63.     Restructuring could have provided an opportunity to redesign the project, but the
hasty decision to approve the contract signing of the TISC left little further room for
significant redesign. Within these constraints, the Bank’s supervision team in the second
two years of implementation was very proactive in supervising the project and providing
more realistic ratings of performance, and can be rated at satisfactory. The Bank’s
technical support to improve the TISC’s technical proposal and inception report, as well
as on-going engagement to improve the quality of TISC outputs, ongoing engagement
with the client on issues of trans boundary waters, and on the importance of preparing
investments to international standards, were substantial contributors to what the project
was able to achieve in a short period of time.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall, the Bank performance is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance


(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

64.      The Ministry did not demonstrate a firm commitment to the project and its
activities. Project staff was continuously asked to undertake non-project related tasks, and
often only spent half of their time on project activities. There was no project champion in
the Ministry to provide leadership to overcome the internal bureaucratic hurdles that the
project faced. The basin planning approach is new to Afghanistan, and the project
required lobbying by a bureaucrat to convince political decision makers of the value of
the approach. The Ministry continued developing the pipeline of projects without
conducting comprehensive feasibility studies, and taking due account of environmental
and social impacts.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

65.     The performance of the implementing agencies was hampered by the performance
of the TISC. The performance of the TISC was poor, especially at the beginning of the
contract, but improved substantially towards the project close.



                                            17
66.    Staff in both units showed a deep commitment to the work they were doing in the
context of the future development for Afghanistan. Their enthusiasm and hard work was
notable.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Overall, the Borrower performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons on Capacity Building

67.     Capacity building projects should not be designed as two-year projects. In a
conflict country environment such projects should be designed for at least a five-year
period. In addition, a two-year project duration does not give enough scope for the Bank
implementation support team to consider adequate restructuring of the project.

68.     In post-conflict situations capacity building is a real challenge due to the difficulty
in attracting suitably qualified experts to the field. The objectives of such projects should
be clear, realistic and well defined in terms of the level of change targeted in the
individuals and the institution. Indicators should be clear and should not be stated in
vague language such as ‘improve, enhance, strengthen, or increase capacity.’
Measurement should go beyond counting numbers of people trained, and focus of the
evaluation of specific competencies targeted by the project.

69.      On the job training, supplemented by short-term courses, can be an effective
capacity building approach, but it requires sustained effort over a long period of time, and
may not be relevant for a post conflict context. Effective on the job training can only take
place if the consultant is resident in the country, available on a day-to-day basis, and
willing to help even on non-project related matters within the consultant’s field of
expertise. Apart from technical capability, the consultant requires particular skills to be
successful as a trainer, for example patience, the ability to listen, the ability to
communicate technical content simply, and flexibility to train on the basis of existing
need and level of skill of the trainee. Consultants should be recruited on the basis of these
skills, as well as their technical capability.

70.     There are greater incentives within the Government to implement technical
assistance programs when they are linked to specific investments, rather than as
standalone projects.

71.     In many cases staff was seconded to the AWARD project and were not recruited
specifically on the basis of specific skill. Capacity building began from a low base.
English proficiency and basic word processing and spreadsheet capability were low.




                                              18
Deliberate recruitment of project staff with a higher level of basic skill would have
resulted in a greater speed and capacity to absorb capacity building initiatives

72.     Future capacity building programs could consider over-staffing, to cater for staff
turnover, or providing training to multiple members of the team to ensure greater
distribution of skills. In post-conflict areas, more active training of trainers should be
considered to ensure sustainability of knowledge creation.

Lessons on the use of a technical support consultancy

73.    When a technical support consultancy is the backbone of the project, it is essential
to have: (a) detailed professional qualifications expected from the consultancy clearly
analyzed and linked to project outputs and outcomes and laid out in the Terms of
Reference and request for proposals; (b) such a consultancy be awarded or nearly
awarded before the start of implementation of the project.

74.      The over-reliance on one technical support consultancy to provide all the requisite
specialist skills for a project places the entire implementation at risk from a poor quality
consultant. A detailed needs assessment can lead to greater specificity of the types of
skills required, and the extent to which they are needed. These skills could be acquired
through a variety of channels, from specialist consultants, twinning arrangements with
other institutions, and training courses.

75.     Many international consultancy firms are not eager to work on projects in post-
conflict areas and contracting good firms who can bring high quality experts is a real
challenge under these circumstances. Even if companies are willing to submit proposals
they in turn will face difficulties in mobilizing good experts to the field as long as these
individuals find opportunities to work in safer regions. The project design of future
projects in post-conflict areas should lower its ambitions with this reality.

Lessons on project design and supervision

76.     GIS skills to build in-country knowledge bases can be built relatively easily and
become a useful platform for data consolidation and visualization. There is less value in
developing in-house, very specialized analytical capability, in environments of very low
capacity. Government agencies do not require the specialist knowledge required to build
effective simulation and optimization models, analyses and understand results, and test
hypotheses. These skills can be easily outsourced to specialist consultants and
universities, where models can be rigorously tested and applied, and the results passed on
to policy makers for decision making.

77.     Project design requires time and effort to assure the commitment of the Borrower.
Integrated water resources management is a new concept in the country, and it requires
significant effort to ensure that the Borrower thoroughly understands what is required.
Projects designed without adequate consultation with the Borrower perform
unsatisfactorily as evidenced in this project with weak commitment shown by MEW. It is



                                             19
essential to have a dedicated Project Director and team right from the start to have a
reasonable chance for satisfactory implementation of the project.

78.     In-country supervision teams, especially in conflict areas, are more effective by
their ability to closely interact with the client and follow up on project activities.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
Not applicable.
(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                            20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
           Components                               Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component A: Capacity Building
for Multi-Sectoral River Basin            0.990             0.380           38%
Planning
Component B: Preparation of
Water Resources Development               0.385             0.299           78%
Investments
Component C: Technical and
                                          3.680             2.411           66%
Implementation Support
            Total Baseline Cost           5.055             3.090           61%
Physical Contingencies                    0.223
Price Contingencies                       0.222
             Total Project Costs          5.500             3.090           56%
Project Preparation Costs                                   0.067
      Total Financing Required            5.500             3.157           57%




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                 millions)   millions)
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
                                                    5.5         3.157          57%
Fund




                                          21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Capacity Building for Multi-Sectoral River Basin Planning

The major outputs of this component were the development of a) Knowledge Bases, b)
Basin models, c) Investment Plans

   a) Knowledge base

The core of the Knowledge Base is the development of a geo-database in GIS. A geo-
database allows for the consolidation of all spatial data in one database, and for mapping,
geographic analysis and preparation of spatial inputs for modeling. Prior to the project,
data was collected in spreadsheets, and there was no spatial analysis or GIS capability
within WRPU. The project purchased ArcGIS software and extensive on-the-job training
was conducted by the consultant using short term consultants, resulting in the
development of basin atlases for five basins, namely the Kabul, Panj-Amu, Helmand,
Northern and Harirud-Murghab Basins. Two GIS specialists within WRPU are confident
in the use of GIS, and the basin atlases for the Harirod-Murghab Basin and Helmand
Basins were developed by the WRPU independently of the consultant. The basin atlases
consist of the following types of data:
     Base maps: River and sub basin base maps, river infrastructure and irrigation,
        hydro-meteorological station locations, administrative units, basin administration
        and management, population and population concentration, topography
     Thematic maps: Precipitation and temperature, river hydrographs, snow coverage,
        energy infrastructure, soil taxonomy, land use and land cover, terrestrial eco-
        regions, geology, geological faults

Basin profiles were prepared for the Kabul and Panj-Amu Basins. The basin profiles are
short, concise summaries of the river basin data in the knowledge base, which can be
used to provide information to interested stakeholders.

A time series database was developed in MS Access for hydro-meteorological and
population data, for the Kabul and Panj-Amu basins. Training was conducted in the use
of the database and one database specialist within WRPU is responsible for the
maintenance of the database.

A Publications Database was developed to allow access to the data available in all the
pre-feasibility and design studies conducted in the basins since the 1970s to the present
day. The WRPU publications library houses all digital and paper based reports related to
water resources development in the basins.

   b) Basin Models

The WRPU received training in the use of the General Algebraic Modeling System
(GAMS) by the Bank supervision team before appointment of TISC. The WRPU was
trained in the preparation of GAMS inputs, especially for the Kabul River Basin.


                                            22
An assessment was done by TISC on the range of modeling tools available and the
decision was made to use the Water Evaluation and Planning (WEAP) system. WEAP is
a widely used decision support system for integrated water resources management and
policy analysis. The model was set up for the Kabul and Panj-Amu River Basins. WEAP
is a simulation model that uses a basic water balance approach to simulate hydrological
systems, municipal and agricultural systems, reservoir operations and hydropower
generation, among a range of other functions. WEAP is not designed for optimisation,
and a Large Ensemble Approach was used for the Kabul River Basin, where a large
number of runs (approximately 25,000) were performed in which a range of parameters
were varied. The LEA was used to generate a database for the analysis of various basin
development scenarios. A software program called Tableau was used for data output
analysis and presentation. A total of 12 weeks of training was conducted by the TISC on
the use of WEAP and Tableau.

   c) Investment Plans

Investment Plans, based on the modelling done in WEAP, were prepared for the Kabul
and Panj-Amu Basins. The investment plans were based on the existing portfolio of
investments which had feasibility studies prepared, some of which had been prepared as
far back as the 1970s. The following schemes were analysed for the Kabul and Panj-Amu
Basins:
                Kabul Basin                               Panj Amu Basin
1. Shatoot Dam (Multi-purpose)               1. Kelagai Dam (Hydropower and
                                                 Irrigation)
2. Gulbahar Dam (Multi-purpose)
                                             2. Hasantal Dam (Irrigation)
3. Baghdara Dam (Hydropower)
                                            3. Warsaj Dam (Hydropower and
4. Sarubi II Run-of-River (Hydropower)
                                               Irrigation)
5. Shal Dam (Hydropower)
                                            4. Khanabad (Hydropower)
6. Konar A Dam (Hydropower)
                                            5. Qalai Mamay Dam (Hydropower)
7. Gambiri Scheme (Hydropower and
                                            6. Lower Kokcha Barrage
   Irrigation)
                                               (Hydropower)
8. Kama Scheme (Hydropower and
   Irrigation)

The parameters considered in the modelling included three flow scenarios (median flow,
dry year with probability of occurrence every 5 years, dry year with probability of
occurrence every 10 years), irrigation efficiency and cropping, operational rules for
hydropower generation, irrigation water supply and reservoir filling, and population.
Cost-benefit analysis was conducted to identify investment options with the highest net
benefits. Results were presented in terms of the best investment combinations for a range
of total investment tranches.




                                           23
Component B: Preparation of Water Resources Development Investments

The major outputs of this component are a) Programming and portfolio development b)
Portfolio Review c) Standards and Guidelines.

   a) Programming and portfolio development

At the project start, there were a total of 28 project studies for a variety of water resources
investment projects underway. On the job training by the TISC civil engineer, and
procurement and contracts management specialist, who assisted the PPU to develop and
manage the portfolio of studies for the preparation of investment projects, determine
priorities, sequence the implementation and manage the program budget. Tools were
created in MS Project and MS Excel and training was provided to assist PPU to manage
the portfolio of studies at various points in the design process. On the job training was
also provided on the steps of the procurement process (from preparation of ToRs and
Expressions of Interest to bid evaluation and contract negotiation), on financial
management, and monitoring, review and oversight of consultants activities and outputs.

   b) Portfolio Review

Many of the completed studies in the portfolio were not to international standards and
therefore not attractive to donor financing. The portfolio review of a sample of eight
completed feasibility studies were reviewed by an engineering consultancy to identify
and highlight deficiencies, assess the causes of these deficiencies and to formulate
lessons learned and recommendations for improvement. The TISC created a template for
a review checklist to ensure consistency and to enable PPU to conduct further reviews
systematically. The evaluation comments were used by the PPU to improve ToRs for new
studies, and the review checklist was used to prepare comments for prefeasibility studies
for projects underway. The portfolio review was conducted by an engineering sub-
consultant as a desk study and there was limited on the job training during the review.
The resident civil engineering consultant was available for on the job training on the use
of the checklists and review finding in subsequent work.

   c) Standards and Guidelines

A comprehensive manual was developed by the engineering sub-consultant on a range of
topics relevant to dam construction, hydropower, water supply and irrigation projects.
The manual covers the types of investigations required for pre-feasibility and feasibility
studies, level of detail, methods and outputs required from these investigations,
methodologies, standards and guidelines that should be followed. The manual covers a
range of topics, including basin planning to environmental assessments, social
assessments, cost estimation, financial and economic analysis, seismicity, dams and flood
control, among others. There was a very low technical capacity base in PPU. The manual
was developed by the engineering sub-consultant that did not travel to Kabul due to
security concerns. Technical training on the topics presented in the manual that took



                                              24
place in Kabul was not appropriately designed, and the training program arranged in
Dubai was unsuccessful due to the PPU staff’s inability to get the necessary approvals
from the Ministry to travel.

The provision of workplace infrastructure, including the construction of an additional
floor on the MEW office building for office space, conference rooms, computer hardware
and software was an important output of the project for both Components A and B. The
WRPU and PPU are institutionalized within the MEW structure, and have modern
facilities and tools available to conduct their jobs comfortably and productively.

Component C: Technical and Implementation Support

The outputs generated by Components A and B were done with the assistance of the
TISC provided under Component C. In addition, assistance was provided for a) project
management, b) procurement management, c) financial management.

   a) Project Management

Annual work plans were created for each component, taking into account activity and
budget schedules and estimates, identification of milestones and outputs, and resource
requirements, as well as the development of procedures and systems to monitor and
manage the implementation of these plans. The annual work plans then formed the basis
against which activities were monitored through quarterly and monthly work plans and
progress reports. A base design of the river basin management website was designed
within the current ministry site. The website was still to be approved by project close.

   b) Procurement management

A manual of procurement procedures was prepared that was consistent with the Grant
Agreement between the Government and the World Bank, and the Bank’s guidelines,
particularly its guidelines for the procurement of consulting services.

   c) Financial management

A financial management system was developed for AWARD supported activities in
accordance with the regulations of the Government, World Bank guidelines, and the
Grant agreement between the Government and the World Bank. The TISC developed a
Financial Management Manual used by the Project’s Finance Team. On-the job training
was provided in procurement and financial management, to the finance officer in the
Department for Water Projects, and WRPU and PPU staff. Training covered the use of
the accounting and financial procedures manual, compliance to AFMIS implementation,
and the use of AFMIS forms for advances, withdrawals and reconciliation of loan and
special account.




                                           25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Not Applicable




                                    26
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
           Names                           Title                 Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation

Supervision/ICR
                                                                        Procurement
Deepal Fernando             Senior Procurement Specialist       ECSO2
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Water Resources
Walter A. Garvey            Consultant                          AFTN2
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Water Resources
Nagaraja Rao Harshadeep     Senior Environmental Specialist     AFTN1
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Financial
Asha Narayan                Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Financial
Kenneth O. Okpara           Sr Financial Management Specialist SARFM
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Water Resources
Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal    Consultant                          SASDI
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Water Resources
Mohammad Arif Rasuli        Senior Environmental Specialist     SASDI
                                                                        Management
                                                                        Implementation
Ranu Sinha                  Consultant                          CSAAP
                                                                        Support
Sanjay Pahuja               Senior Water Resources Specialist   SASDI   Task Team Leader
Jun Matsumoto               Senior Water Resources Specialist   SASDA   Task Team Leader


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY08                                                                       2.50
FY09                                          9.60                        64.38
Total:                                        9.60                        66.98
Supervision/ICR
   FY10                                       3.28                         66.94
   FY11                                      10.13                         40.19
   FY12                                      30.71                        102.44
   FY13                                      53.59                        197.47
   FY14                                       0.00                          2.60
Total:                                       97.71                        409.64




                                            27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                      28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                   29
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower completed a Completion Report as at March 2013. Key aspects of this
report are provided below.

Government of Afghanistan’s Strategy and Policy

Basin approach and integrated water management forms the cornerstone of the
Governments approach to water resources development. Although a gradual
transformation to integrated water resource management (IWRM) is actually in progress;
the vast majority of current development undertakings are still being implemented on a
project-to-project basis. This is because IWRM requires a significant infusion of relevant
water and land use data pertaining to the analysis of river basins and/or sub-basins. Some
of this data is non-existent at this time.

The Key Constraints

At present the Ministry has little or no capacity to organize, carry out and manage a
program to plan and develop water conservation infrastructure and implement river basin
management of water resources. Creating new capacity for this purpose, as well as to
support its dialogue with its riparian neighbors, is therefore vital. Recruitment of new
qualified staff will be needed. Previous project experience suggests that with patience,
well-designed and well-staffed technical assistance, and a clear, time-bound work
program, capacity can be further developed.

Key Lessons Learned

The leadership and management of the Ministry of Energy and Water had some
misconception about the actual objectives of the project. The project’s objective was to
build the capacity of both the Water Resources Planning Unit and the Project Preparation
Unit, however, their function showed otherwise. Their tasks and responsibilities were
quite essential for MEW’s operation. Although the design of the project was to be
through a “learning by doing” model, it had been very difficult to put into practice
because of the nature of their work.

There had been some difficulties faced in implementation of the project’s objective of
training personnel from other entities due to non-cooperation from various stakeholders.
Formally, these entities were not a part of the project team. Also, these trainings require
substantial commitment of time and resources during implementation. These factors
were not taken into account in the project design. Thus, the project was only partially
successful in achieving the water resources management capacity.

There were provisions for Short-term International and In-Country training courses for
the trainees, however these were not realized because it had been very difficult to get the
team to be released from Ministry responsibilities to take part in these programs. Also,
the government was hesitant to authorize training expenditures. The government



                                             30
assumed that the cost was to be covered by the Technical Support and Implementation
Consultants.

Procurement was supposed to be handled by the project team however; the Afghan
Government mandated that this was to be the responsibility of the Ministry’s
Procurement Department. Although the arrangement seemed logical, this posed a
problem for the project because most of the items that were to be procured were technical
items that the Department was not familiar with. There had been problems in
coordination because the Department did not have enough staff to process procurement
documents that were in English. The project team has to have the documents translated
but still ends up processing the documents after they had been pending for several weeks,
even months.

The World Bank Coordination is an integral part of the project and it is important for the
successful implementation of the project. The WB coordination was useful for
controlling the consultant in terms of project deliverables. At the beginning of the project,
the Bank conducts semi-annual missions, however it was made apparent that more
frequent reviews are required to make sure the project was progressing on target.
Monthly reviews of project updates helped the Ministry and the Consultant focus on
pressing needs. Although AWARD did not progress to Phase II, we commend the Bank
for their valuable efforts in coordinating this project. Considering the current capacity of
the Ministry, it would be beneficial for future projects to have frequent interaction
between the Bank and the Ministry.

Although WEAP may have not been entirely compatible with the original plan of
optimization, the Water Resources Planning Unit and the Ministry as a whole had fully
benefited from the training it received on the Modeling System. Through WEAP, WRPU
had been able to incorporate information that have been gathered from different resources
into a practical tool that the Ministry could utilize for Water Resources Planning.
WEAP’s integrated approach to simulating Water Systems whereby demand (i.e. water
use patterns, equipment efficiencies, re-use, prices and allocation) is analyzed on an equal
footing with supply (i.e. stream flow, groundwater, reservoirs and water transfers) makes
it relatively easy to understand the logic of the DSS. WEAP is a digital laboratory for
examining alternative Water development and management strategies.

WEAP as a simulation model is advantageous in terms of understanding water demand
coverage and it works well in identifying the demand priority. Power production,
irrigation coverage, urban water supply coverage and environmental flow allocation are
easily recognized and could be modified with the introduction of constraints to certain
parameters.

For comparing the results of cost benefits analysis of projects within the basin, the Kabul
Basin WEAP model was developed with a number of potential infrastructures within the
basin. Due to the number of possible combinations, it had to be analyzed with the same
number of runs to figure out the most beneficial scheme. This had been done through a
series of runs known as a Large Ensemble Approach. The resultant information or



                                            31
database can then be viewed and evaluated with the use of the Tableau Program which
lays out the data in a visual representation, thus allowing for the comparative evaluation
of the best possible scenario or scenarios.

The project utilized the WEAP model for water management allocation. The model that
was developed had two components: Hydrology and Water Management.

However, the decision to apply the model only for Water Management during this phase
of the AWARD project was done because of time constraints. If WRPU continues with
its functions either through AWARD or another project, it should proceed to implement
the Hydrology component of the Model. WRPU began working on the WEAP model in
2011 and had familiarized itself to some extent on the use of the System for modeling.
Although the learning by doing approach was a useful method and helped them
appreciate the value of the information that had been accumulated, it would have been
more effective for the WRPU Team if they had been developing the model themselves
under the supervision a senior consultant. Experience in river basin planning and WEAP
modeling would be very helpful.

The model is also user friendly not to mention the availability of a user manual that
assisted well in clarifying methods. However, there are still components that need to be
incorporated in the model like wastewater treatment and catchments. Due to limited
information and lack of time, these had not been incorporated in the current model.

The Project Portfolio Review of the Ministries’ priority projects provided the Project
Preparation Unit with a guide on how the team should assess and review Feasibility and
Pre-Feasibility Studies. The team was able to gain knowledge and acquire the following:

      A better understanding of a Feasibility Study Report review methodology
       (including identification of shortfall, deficiencies and other potential issues of the
       study) as well as conducting follow-up or secondary stage reviews
      An overview of the structure and parameters of a Feasibility Study
      Guideline on the preparation of a Standardized Terms of Reference for Pre-
       Feasibility/ Feasibility Studies
      Develop an outlined list of causes of inadequacies and corresponding suggested
       solutions to address these shortcomings from the study in review
      Formulation of Lessons Learned and Recommendations
      Development of a Checklist for use in forthcoming reviews
      Conduct comparison analysis of Reviews and Amendments to check for
       consistency of documents

The Technical and Implementation Support Consultant developed a Manual on Planning
and Design Standards and Guidelines for Pre-Feasibility and Feasibility Studies for use
by the Project Preparation Unit of the Ministry of Energy and Water and other units
engaged in project preparation. The document was developed in consultation with the
PPU and other senior technical staff at MEW. This document will be used as a Guide in



                                             32
the preparation, development and monitoring of Pre-Feasibility/ Feasibility Studies
implemented by MEW.

Thus far, the document had been a helpful tool in the preparation of Terms of References
of several projects under the Ministry’s current portfolio as well as in the review of
preliminary reports from the Small and Medium Dams Project that is currently
conducting an investigation on One Hundred and Eleven (111) potential Water Resources
projects.

The Manual provides guidance in the preparation or respective documents for us in the
following areas:
     Hydrologic analysis (e.g., floods, drought frequency, water yield of un-gauged
       streams)
     Agriculture (e.g., cropping patterns, yields, technologies)
     Irrigation (e.g., technology, efficiency, returns flows)
     Hydropower (load forecasts)
     Urban and rural water supply (population forecasts, service standards, losses,
       industrial and mining demand)
     Cost estimation (methodologies and data for reconnaissance, pre-feasibility and
       feasibility studies)
     Economic and financial analysis (e.g., methodology, energy values, output prices,
       production costs)
     Watershed sediment yield and reservoir sedimentation
     Dam engineering and geotechnical investigation (e.g., standards for layouts,
       selection of sites)
     Hydropower, basin planning, simulation and operation studies
     Environmental and social assessment
     Resettlement and compensation of project affected people




                                           33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                    34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Proposal Document, December 17, 2008

Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Grant Agreement March 23, 2009

Project Aide Memoires and Implementation Supervision Reports 2008 - 2013

Project Restructuring Paper February 28, 2011

Afghanistan National Development Strategy (2005, 2008-2013)

World Bank Interim Strategy Note (FY 07-FY08, FY12-14)

Contract MEW/957/QBS Implementation Support Consultancy Service , January 2011

Scoping Strategic Options for Development of the Kabul River Basin: A Multisectoral
Decision Support System Approach, World Bank, 2011




                                          35
