 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14635

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 05/07/2015

               Country: Afghanistan
             Project ID: P112097                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Technical Assistance         Project Costs (US$M):                      5.1                3.2
                         For Water-sector
                         Capacity Building
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                      5.5                3.9
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):                      0.0                0.0

          Cofinanciers: None                         Board Approval Date :                                 03/23/2009
                                                               Closing Date:             03/31/2011        03/31/2013
         Sector(s):       Public administration- Water sanitation and flood protection (100%)
         Theme(s):        Water resource management (100% - P)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
C.Y. Nunez-Ollero         Fernando Manibog        Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The October 2008 Project Proposal (PP, p. 6) states that the Project Development Objectives (PDOs)
are: (1) to build the capacity of the Government of Afghanistan to progressively undertake strategic basin
planning; and (2) to improve project preparation for water resources development. The task team
confirmed that the policy at that time of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, which financed this
project, was to use the PP as the equivalent of the Project Appraisal Document. OPCS also confirmed
that there was no Bank-wide policy on preparing PADs for trust-funded projects.

The March 23, 2009 Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TFA, p. 4), and the February 2011 Restructuring
Paper (Restructuring Paper, p. 3) restate these same objectives.

In line with IEG guidelines, this Review is based on the assessment of objectives as stated in the
financing agreement, in this case the TFA.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

Component 1. Building capacity for multi-sector river basin planning (US$ 0.99 million at appraisal
and US$ 0.38 million actual) to finance training and technical advisory services of the relevant agencies
responsible for integrated water resource development planning by: (a) consolidating basin data into a
Geographic Information System (GIS) to devise analytical tools for investment decisions; (b) training staff
on the mechanics of transboundary water; (c) establishing a work space for the trained staff; and (d)
introducing performance-based allowances for staff of the planning unit of the Ministry of Energy and
Water.

Component 2. Preparing water resources development investments (US$ 0.39 million at appraisal
and US$ 0.30 million actual) by: (a) conducting pre-feasibility studies for priority projects, and (b) training
and supporting staff in preparing investment grade project studies.

Component 3. Technical and implementation support (US$ 3.7 million at appraisal and US$ 2.4
million actual) to finance a technical and implementation support consultant (TISC) to build the capacity of
the implementing entity by: (a) training staff on the job; (b) providing technical supervision; and (c)
supporting project management, including procurement, financial management, and project monitoring.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: The total project cost of US$3.2 million was 63% of the original estimate of US$5.1 million
(excluding contingencies). The rest of the funds was not used and was cancelled.

Financing: The Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), or TF 93637, funded this project (see
note immediately below). The ARTF committed US$15.5 million for a two-phased project, this project
being the first funded for US$5.1 million with US$0.4 million in contingencies for a total of US$ 5.5 million.
If Phase 1 succeeded in identifying investment-ready projects, Phase 2 would follow with a commitment
of US$10 million. At closure, this project (Phase 1) disbursed US$ 3.2 million and cancelled US$ 2.3
million (ICR, Annex A, p. 21).

(Note: The World Bank administers the ARTF on behalf of donors. The ARTF is a partnership between the
international community and the Afghan government to improve the effectiveness of the reconstruction effort. Since
2002, 32 donors have contributed over $4.3 billion to the fund, making ARTF the largest contributor to the Afghan
budget – for both operating costs and development programs. ARTF’s support for national priority programs, for
operating costs of government operations, and for the policy reform agenda is contributing to the achievement of the
Afghanistan National Development Strategy's goals, according to the ARTF website.

Dates: The ARTF Management Committee approved this project in November 2008 and signed the
Grant Agreement on March 23, 2009. The project was restructured on February 28, 2011 to extend the
project closing date to March 31, 2013 because Component 3 of the project, the consulting contract, only
just commenced on February 2011. The ICR (p. 5) erroneously cites that the project was restructured in
March 2011.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High.

Afghanistan post-conflict has successfully reconstructed its water assets in the early 2000s. The country
now faces the need to identify and fund investments in water resources to meet increasing demands from
its constituents and slowly recovering industries.

The PDOs are aligned with the Government’s development and reform strategy formulated in the 2002
Afghan Authority for the Coordination of Assistance, reaffirmed in the 2004 Securing Afghanistan’s
Future: Accomplishments and the Strategic Path Forward, and at the 2005 Afghan Development Forum.
Capacity development is also a cross-cutting priority of the Afghanistan National Development Strategy,
2008-2013. The same strategy identified 22 National Priority Programs (NPPs) clustered around 6 areas,
one of which was the Agriculture and Rural Development Cluster. In this cluster, the GOA identified water
and natural resource development as a top priority.

Both project objectives remain relevant to Pillar 1 of the Interim Strategy Note, FY2012-2014 on building
the capacity of the state and its accountability to its citizens. The objectives are aligned with the work of
other donors supporting the ARTF, and give the Bank ample opportunity to conduct policy dialogues with
the government and show its commitment to donor coordination.

b. Relevance of Design:

Modest.

This project initiated core processes for strategic multi-sector water resources development planning. A
successful Phase 1 under this project would set the stage for Phase 2 to prepare priority projects for
investors to fund.

However, the PP did not have a results framework, indicators, or targets that could adequately explain
the causal chain for the project. The ICR (p. 11) points out that project design was overly ambitious,
complex, and not relevant to the Afghan context at that time. The activities undertaken were insufficient to
achieve the PDOs because of the low baseline for institutional capacity and a miscalculation of security
concerns of consultants.

Moreover, a two-year project implementation period was inadequate considering the project was taking
place in a post-conflict state. Security concerns, procurement, and fiduciary issues permeated the
implementation period.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

PDO 1: To build the capacity of the Government of Afghanistan (GoA) to progressively undertake
strategic basin planning

Negligible

Outputs:

    Trained 13 staff of the Water Resources Planning and Project Preparation Units, compared to a
     target of 14 as adopted from the December 2010 Implementation Status Report (ICR, p.2-3).
    Developed and installed a Water Evaluation and Planning (WEAP) simulation model for river basin
     planning, compared to the target of preparing a suite of simulation, optimization, and multi-criteria
     analyses models. The WEAP was used for the Kabul and Panj Amu river basins.
    Comprehensive atlases were created for 4 basins: Kabul, Panj-Amu, Northern, and Harirod –
     Murghab Basins. The geo database for the Helmand Basin was 90% complete at the time the project
     closed. The target was to establish a knowledge base and analytical tools for 4 basins (ICR, p.3).
    Trained 11 staff members, compared to a target 14, on elements of water resources management.

Outcomes:

    Of the trained staff, two subsequently left and many were predictably seeking other job opportunities.
    The project created capacity in the WRPU to use a Geographic Information System (GIS) database.
     WRPU independently produced 2 of the 4 river basin atlases (ICR, p.12). As a repository of the most
     comprehensive basin data, the WRPU supports other projects that require basin data, and have
     enjoined other ministries and projects to centralize river basin data at WRPU (ICR, p. 12)
    The staff did not have the capacity to independently undertake river basin planning using the
     available suite of models nor independently conduct cost benefit analysis to identify investment
     options with the highest benefits
    Training on trans-boundary water management was not conducted.
PDO 2: To improve project preparation for water resources development

Modest

Outputs:

    The project preparation unit assisted in drafting TORs for further studies of 2 sub-projects under the
     110 Small and Medium Dams project.
    Identified investment priorities for Kabul and 3 other river basins.
    Completed investment plans for Kabul and Panj-Amu Basins.
    Developed, organized a training program set to be delivered in Dubai.
    Completed desk review of 8 existing feasibility studies.
    Prepared a checklist for the planning unit to independently review future feasibility studies.

Outcomes:

    Training on trans-boundary water management was not conducted. Staff who did the training were
     not fully functional to work independently in their roles. On-the-job training in the use of the checklist
     to review future feasibility studies was not conducted. Instead, capacity was built around the
     procurement and bidding process for the studies (ICR, p. 13) and led the Ministry to ask that staff
     trained also serve in other bid evaluation committees (outside the project).
    TISC was supposed to have used the Shatoot river basin upgrade feasibility study for the PPU
     on-the-job training so as to generate a robust investment portfolio that is ready for donor financing.
     The Government instead rushed to complete studies and designs without regard to international
     standards (e.g., no economic, environmental, or social assessments), which led to dropping the
     Shatoot upgrade activity by the time the project closed. However, the project helped build the PPU’s
     procurement capacity, as indicated above.
    The Ministry did not allow staff to participate in the Dubai training. There was no training conducted
     on trans-boundary water management. Staff trained was not fully functional to work independently in
     their roles. The project's undisbursed funds consisted mainly of overseas training.


5. Efficiency:

Negligible

Economic Efficiency: The PP did not carry out a cost benefit analysis. The ICR does not present an
ex-post cost benefit analysis (ICR, Annex 3, p. 26) and indicates that economic and financial analyses do
not apply. The ICR does not present other measures of efficiency, such as a cost-effectiveness analysis;
there is a lack of any information or evidence of waste, and no basis to assess project efficiency.

Administrative Efficiency : The project was delayed by procurement issues. The project was restructured
once to extend the closing date. The team did not use this opportunity to adjust project design.
Operational arrangements were not adequate (ICR, p. 17). The disbursement rate was slow, showing
only 18% of funds disbursed by the time of the original closing date. At closure, about US$2 million (40%)
of project funds were not utilized and cancelled.

A beneficiary survey was not conducted, cited as not applicable (Annex 5, ICR, p.28).


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                   Point Value                Coverage/Scope*
    Appraisal                     No
    ICR estimate                  No
                                     * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

There were no original indicators identified to assess the results of the project. The relevance of
objectives is high, but the relevance of design is modest. Achievement of PDO 1 on strategic basin
planning is negligible, and that of PDO 2 on preparation of water resources development projects is
modest. Efficiency is also rated as negligible leading to an Unsatisfactory outcome rating.

 a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The project generated few outcomes. A knowledge base of river basins in the country was started but
relies on the government's continued use of the WRPU as a central repository of data after project
completion. Skills training were concentrated in a few key individuals (ICR, p. 16). The continued use of
analytical tools produced under the project depend on retaining trained staff.
   Institutional commitment : Possible changes in leadership and priorities in the Ministry of Energy and
     Water may follow the future elections. Political outcomes pose high risks to sustaining the few
     development outcomes of this project. Pursuing integrated water resource management requires an
     infusion of a whole array of water and land use data, some of which remain non-existent at this time.
     (ICR, p. 30)
   Technical capacity and talent retention : The ability to retain trained staff after project close is a high
     risk. Most were already looking for other opportunities as the project closed (ICR, p. 16). The Ministry
     continues to have little capacity to implement river basin management of water resources (ICR, p.
     30).
   Continuing security concerns: The ICR (p. 7) notes that the precarious security situation continues to
     be an impediment to attracting consultants.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The ICR (p. 16) indicates that Bank performance was characterized by poor design, inadequate
assessment of capacity weaknesses, weak planning of both safeguard and fiduciary dimensions,
inadequate risk identification, and lack of an M&E system. The ICR points to two main weaknesses:

First, project preparation was expedited (October 2008 to March 2009) to allow for a thorough
assessment of the existing baseline capacity. The project design was too complex (building in-house
technical capacity despite a limited talent base) with an ambitious implementation period (two years)
to achieve the PDOs. Risks were identified, particularly in procuring the right consultants to be
mitigated by the task team’s technical support. However, with the high security risks, the team
underestimated the difficulty in posting quality experts in a timely manner. The TOR for the technical
and implementation support work lacked specifics.

Second, there was no results framework to provide the team with a road map for measuring how
on-the-job training, short courses, modeling, and other activities would achieve the PDOs. The PP (p.
6) cites indicators to measure outcomes but did not provide specific targets to measure results.
  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                  Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The optimistic ratings of the Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) did not match the budget
expenditure rate (ICR, p. 16-17). Regular supervision at the start of implementation (only 2 were
conducted in the first two years) could have helped resolve contracting issues.

Procuring international consultants for the bulk of the project suffered serious delay (ICR, p.6). Only
one firm submitted a proposal. Contract negotiations were protracted. Bank supervision transitioned
to a new task team. The Bank did not object to signing a contract with only 2 months prior to the
original project closure. The project was restructured In February 28, 2011 but only to extend the
project end date to March 31, 2013 to accommodate the contract. The Government and the Bank
proceeded with the contract, intending to correct during implementation the deficient technical
proposal, which was not responsive to the TOR and showed a lack of capacity to undertake the
assignment. The new task team missed an opportunity to revisit project design during the
restructuring although the ICR (p. 17) notes that in the last two years of the project, more frequent
supervision missions engaged the client on trans-boundary water issues and imprinted the importance
of using international standards to prepare investments.

The disbursement rate was slow: only 18% of the funds were disbursed by the time of the original
closing date. At closure, round US$2 million of the project funds was cancelled.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :           Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :         Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The ICR (p. 17) notes that the Government did not demonstrate a strong commitment to the project.
The short time to prepare the project was insufficient for internal Government consultation to agree on
how to achieve project outcomes.

The Government did not support customized staff training outside of the country (ICR, p.9). Most of
the cancelled and undisbursed funds were meant for training. Half of the time, project staff was asked
to undertake non-project related tasks (ICR, p. 17). The Government centralized procurement in
response to contracting issues but the staff was ill-equipped to deal with technical specifications and
documents in English (ICR, p. 10). When it was time to prepare priority investments (e.g., upgrade of
the Shatoot Dam), the Government bowed to political pressures and undertook detailed design
without due diligence to safeguard issues. The Bank withdrew its support to this project activity as a
result (ICR, p.10).


  Government Performance Rating                         Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The government’s Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW) was the implementing entity. The ARTF Grant
Agreement (p. 6) outlined three different units under the Ministry to be accountable for each
component: Component 1 through the Water Resources Planning unit, Component 2 through the
project preparation unit, and Component 3 through the Ministry’s office of the General Director of
Planning. The PP (p. 9) notes that, on behalf of the MEW, the Technical Implementation Support
consultant (TISC) would ensure the smooth coordination among these project components. The ICR
(p. 9) points out that the MEW provided little support for the bureaucratic hurdles the project faced.
Project staff was not dedicated to the implementation of the project but was performing other
Ministry-related tasks at the same time. TISC performed poorly at project start (ICR, p. 17) further
hampering the performance of the implementing entities.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

Neither the PP nor the restructuring paper had a results framework. There were no clear targets for the
indicators. The ICR (p. 9) notes that five PDO indicators adopted from the December 2010
Implementation Status Report (ISR) were simple output indicators and were not specific. For example,
“adequately trained staff” did not define “adequate.” There was no clear rationale or causality established
for how the output indicators would lead to project outcomes or how these would achieve the
development objective of building capacity to undertake strategic river basin planning.

b. M&E Implementation:

The ICR (p. 9) notes that no monitoring and evaluation system was established.

c. M&E Utilization:

There was no evidence of use.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This project was reported in the ICR as being rated a Category C and did not have direct effects on the
environment, resettlement, or other safeguard issues (ICR, p.10).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial reporting was weak prior to hiring the consultants. Internal audit was also weak. An
Independent Audit was conducted in March 2010 citing certain weaknesses in internal controls. Toward
the end of the project, the team used the Internal Audit of another Bank-financed project – the Irrigation
Restoration and Development Project.

A midterm review pointed to limitations in the reconciliation of bank books by the implementing agency.
The request for disbursement was hampered by the delay in the Ministry of Finance’s reconciling bank
books from the Ministry of Energy and Water.

Procuring consultant services was readied in the hope that a consultant would be in place by the time of
grant effectiveness but this was delayed substantially by the poor technical quality and
non-responsiveness of the sole bidder culled from a short list. The project used the Ministry of Finance’s
centralized Procurement Department who were not familiar with the technical nature of the items
procured under the project nor were they familiar with documents in English, resulting in delays.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

The ICR (p.15) notes that the project design did not address gender disparities. The project trained 2
women (14%) out of a staff complement of 14.

d. Other:




12. Ratings:                               ICR                     IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Unsatisfactory      The Relevance of Objectives was
                               Unsatisfactory                                   High. The Relevance of Design
                                                                                was Modest given the
                                                                                over-ambitious and complex
                                                                                design. Achievement of both PDO
                                                                                1 was negligible, and PDO 2 was
                                                                                modest. While some outputs were
                                                                                achieved, there were significant
                                                                                shortcomings in achieving targeted
                                                                                outcomes. Efficiency is modest.

          Risk to Development High                          High
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The following lessons were derived from the ICR (p. 19):
      Capacity building takes time, particularly in post-conflict areas where the talent base is low.
         There may be little value in building very specialized analytical capabilities in-house especially
         when facing the challenges of attracting and retaining talent. On the job training supplemented
         by short courses over a short implementation period may not suit a pos- conflict scenario.
      Using technical consultancy as a vehicle to carry out capacity-building requires a clear match
         of skills, and realistic timelines to attract qualified experts who need to be in place by the time
         the project starts.
      When introducing new concepts such as integrated water resource management, project
         design calls for time and effort to better establish government commitment.
14. Assessment Recommended?              Yes   No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and is internally consistent. It provides a frank analysis of the design and
implementation weaknesses of the project. The quality of evidence is adequate, although because of a
lack of a results framework and cost benefit analysis, there is limited evidence of achieving the project
objectives.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
