Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               a ,
Report No. P-2546-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
May 14, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uad by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PRs)
US$1           =  Rs 9.90
PRs 1          =  US$0.101
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiary:       Province of Sind.
Amount:            US$9.0 million
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  From GOP to GOSind:  Same terms as IDA credit.
Project
Description:    The project is designed to support the reorganization and
strengthening of the agricultural extension services in
all of the 12 rural districts of Sind. It provides in
five districts for an increase in the number of extension
staff and suitable housing and vehicles for them. In
the remaining seven districts, existing staff would be
provided with suitable vehicles. The project would also
establish four adaptive research farms, two soil testing
laboratories and pest scouting services on a pilot scale in
one district. The main project benefit would be an increase
in production, particularly foodgrains, as a consequence of
the impact of the new extension and research system on agri-
cultural yields. Marginal and small farmers, now living
close to or below the poverty line, would be the primary
beneficiaries of the new system and of the project's
emphasis on efficient use of existing resources. The most
significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on
an efficient organization and management of extension and
research services, as well as on farmers' response. Exper-
ience with ongoing projects in other countries, however,
has already demonstrated that the new system can work
efficiently in formulation and delivery of messages, and
in motivating farmers.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                                  US$ M
Local       Foreign    Total
Land Acquisition                 0.07         -         0.07
Civil Works                      4.88        0.90       5.78
Equipment and Transport          0.67        0.57       1.24
Incremental Operating Costs   1.85           1.01       2.85
Consultants and Training         0.02        0.69       0.71
Sub-total                     7.42         3.16      10.58
Physical Contingency             0.52        0.21       0.73
Price Escalation                 2.12        0.84       2.96
Total                        10.06         4.21      14.27
Financing Plan:                                           US$ Thousands
IDA                                       9,000
GOP/Sind                                  4,580
UNDP                                        690
Total                                14,270
Estimated
Disbursemen's:                                           US$ Millions
IDA FY          1980   1981    1982    1983  1984
Annual           0.7    3.3       3.8      0.9   0.3
Cumulative       0.7    4.0       7.8      8.7   9.0
Rate of Return:    About 50% (see paragraph 63).
Appraisal Report:  No. 2387-FAK dated May 7, 1979.
Map:                 IBRD 14187R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the equivalent of
US$9.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance an agricultural extension
and adaptive research project in Sind. The proceeds of this credit would be
channelled to the Government of Sind on the same terms and conditions as the
IDA credit. Technical assistance and training for the project would be pro-
vided by UNDP (US$690,000).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Fifth Plan Review (No. 2394-PAK, dated April 12, 1979) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on April 18, 1979.
3.        Economic performance during the 1970s compares unfavorably with the
record of rapid growth of output and exports during the 1960s. GDP has grown
at about 4.0% per annum in real terms, compared to more than 6% during the
1960s, and rapid population growth has meant that there has been little
increase in per capita incomes. Output in the major productive sectors
(agriculture and manufacturing) has risen even more slowly than GDP - at
about 2.5-3.0% per annum - and GDP itself only achieved a growth rate of 4%
as a result of expansion in construction, government and service industries.
During the last eighteen months some expansion in manufactured value added
and exports has taken place but the agricultual sector has continued to suffer
setbacks.
4.        To a considerable degree this disappointing performance has been due
to factors outside the Government's immediate or direct control. The 1970s
began in crisis with the war with India and the separation of Bangladesh, and
there followed a series of economic and climatic misfortunes which undermined
the basis for growth. These included a poor monsoon in 1974/75 and serious
floods in 1972/73 and 1975/76, as well as the petroleum crisis and the subse-
quent world recession. Moreover, political instability and uncertainty have
continued to have serious economic implications. However, the policy response
to these problems has also in many respects been inadequate, contributing
significantly to the economy's disappointing performance. Changing attitudes
to the private sector, illustrated by a series of nationalizations that began
in 1972, had a depressing effect on private investment, while legislation
served to increase real wages in the industrial sector at a time of other
cost increases and increasingly difficult export markets. Major increases
in public investment have more than offset declining private investment, but



- 2-
public investment has been concentrated in capital-intensive, long-gestation
projects which in many cases have yet to result in increased production. This
investment contributed to a massive deterioration in the trade account, itself
aggravated by Government policies designed to protect the consumer from the
implications of stagnating production. To finance imports, and to cover
serious shortfalls in public saving, the Government resorted to heavy borrow-
ing from abroad, including a major increase from OPEC countries during the
mid-1970s. Workers' remittances have increased very substantially over the
last few years, but a very large trade deficit and rising debt repayments
have imposed a serious strain on the balance of payments while the problem of
domestic resource mobilization has continued to constrain economic development.
5.        A start has been made in the process of policy adjustment and mea-
sures have been implemented which go some way towards solving the country's
serious resource management problems. The wheat issue price was recently
increased by 40%, an important first step towards reducing the high level of
subsidies. The agricultural processing industries (except the vegetable ghee
industry) have been denationalized, the area open to private investment has
been greatly extended, credit and tax incentives (especially for export) have
been improved and considerable improvements have been recorded in the labor
situation. Agricultural support prices have been maintained, and in some
cases increased, and an effort is being made to improve input availability to
the farmer. Finally, a review of Government investment and related priorities
was undertaken in the context of the preparation of the revised Fifth Plan
which, while still over-optimistic in many of its projections, recognizes the
need to redirect the pattern of economic development away from large public
industrial and other long gestation projects and towards the agricultural and
social sectors.
6.        These measures have in part been responsible for the first upturn
in the economy since the FY73/FY74 commodity boom. GDP rose by more than 6%
during FY78 and the available evidence suggests continued expansion during
the current year. Nevertheless, despite some favorable developments, prospects
for future growth remain uncertain. For the immediate future, this uncertainty
relates to worrying trends in the overall fiscal and monetary management of
the economy. These threaten to accentuate inflationary pressures and could
lead to serious balance-of-payments problems. For the longer-term, the most
disturbing features are continued low levels of productivity in agriculture,
the lack of any significant recovery in private investment and the rapid
growth in population.
7.        Despite the fact that the economic situation provides little room
for maneuver, and despite the policy changes that have already taken place,
further measures appear essential if the basic issues limiting economic growth
in the longer term are to be adequately addressed. These issues include the
farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the structure
and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind conti-
nued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expendi-
tures; the deterioration in the performance of public sector enterprises and
the administrative machinery generally; the low elasticity of tax revenues
and the problems of public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficit
and the continued dependence on capital inflows from abroad.



- 3 -
8.        Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 55% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Repeated set-
backs in agriculture have, however, undermined growth and thrown doubt on the
input-based strategies followed in recent years. The most notable recent
example was the FY78 wheat crop which was attacked by rust and, for this and
other reasons, declined by 10%. It is to be hoped that this setback will
prove temporary. Of more deep concern are the continued problems besetting
cotton. A further reverse took place this year with production falling to 2.7
million bales compared to nearly 4 million in the early 1970s. A poor sugar
crop has also been registered and, although rice continues to perform well, it
is clear that a number of fundamental factors continue to limit agricultural
productivity at levels well below the potential implied by the resources and
technologies already available. Thus, while considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears also
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
programs which have a direct impact at the farm level. Major improvements are
possible in the water delivery system and in the general level of agricultural
practices. High priority therefore needs to be given to water course improve-
ment programs, to investments designed to reverse water-logging and salinity
and to projects designed to establish a systematic and effective research
and extension service. Without such initiatives, agricultural growth in
the longer term will suffer and the benefits from the available inputs and
resources will remain well below their technical potential.
9.        Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production have, however, declined from about 10% per year during the 1960s
to little over 2% during most of the 1970s, although since the present Gov-
ernment came to power there has been some recovery in both manufacturing
value added and exports. The major structural change in the industrial sector
since 1973 has been the expansion of the public sector from about 10% to about
25% of industrial assets. Private investment has declined markedly as a
result of nationalization fears, rapid cost inflation, labor problems, adverse
export market conditions and problems in raw material supply. The textile
industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of value added in large-
scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency, excess capacity
and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manufacturing growth
generally has been affected by the poor performance of public sector enter-
prises. A recovery in world markets and export incentives have together
contributed to a recent revival in yarn exports, but a more fundamental
improvement in industrial investment depends on a period of reasonably pro-
longed stability and a shift in the overall balance of production towards
higher value added products which are responsive to market opportunities and
preferences. Also important will be progress in, and results from, oil
exploration for which there appears to be considerable potential.
10.       While it is clearly vital to re-establish a base for more rapid
growth in the commodity-producing sectors, it is also true that rapid growth



in population, currently running at about 3% per annum, has seriously handi-
capped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have unfortunately had little effect and there have been few changes
in the socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines
in fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on Government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. How-ever, without higher literacy rates, improved health
facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population
growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain
comparatively low and undue emphasis has been given to such elements as higher
education and urban health facilities. High priority needs therefore to be
given not only to increased allocations for family planning and social service
expenditure but also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the
population and the -conomy.
11.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints.  Domestic resource mobilization has become a major prob-
lem area in the economy. Public sector development expenditures increased
from 5.5% of GDP in FY71 to 11.2% in FY77 while non-development expenditures
more than trebled. Public sector savings declined, and indeed were negative
from FY72 to FY75, although they recovered to about 2% of GDP in FY78. The
scope for non-inflationary domestic borrowing has been limited and financing
public expenditures has become heavily dependent on external and domestic
bank borrowing. Foreign assistance financed no less than 70% of development
expenditures in FY76 although this figure fell to 48% in FY77 because of a
decline in aid receipts. To improve domestic resource mobilization, addi-
tional taxation and improvements in tax administration are needed; non-
development expenditures must be restrained, possibly through selective
reductions in subsidies; and the contribution of public enterprises should
be enhanced, for instance through tariff increases. Given the limits to
domestic and external borrowing, and the constraints on increasing revenues
and decreasing current expenditures, it remains essential to limit the size
and adjust the content of the public investment program. Emphasis needs to
be given to providing adequate resources for agriculture and other areas
where substantial and rapid increases in production and exports appear pos-
sible, as well as to the social sectors, which have been neglected in recent
years. Conversely, the proportion of resources devoted to capital-intensive
industrial and long gestation projects should be reduced.
12.       The external position has been greatly assisted by rapidly rising
workers' remittances from abroad, notably from the Middle East; these rose
from US$130 million in FY73 to US$578 million in FY77, to US$1,166 million in
FY78 and to an estimated $1,400 million in the current year. This increase
has, however, been more than offset by a massive deterioration in the trade
balance with the result that the current account deficit increased from about
US$130 million in FY73 to more than US$1,000 million in FY75. The huge
increase in remittances reduced the current account deficit to $600 million
in FY78, but a further deterioration has occurred in the current year,



largely due to a 30% increase in the value of imports, itself in part the
consequence of last year's poor wheat crop. While suspension of debt payments
to Iran, short-term borrowing and a run down in international reserves suggest
that the external sector will remain manageable in the current year, the
options for next year are much more limited. If no debt relief is obtained
from the Consortium countries, net aid inflows will -- according to Government
figures -- remain at only about $350 million. Allowing for a somewhat lower
current account deficit than expected by the Government, the gap remaining to
be financed appears to be also in the region of $300-$400 million. Additional
contributions are expected from OPEC sources and action to restrict the level
of imports could help limit financing requirements. Nevertheless, the foreign
exchange position will remain tight and, if no additional resources are made
available (e.g., from the IMF, debt relief or quick disbursing non-project
aid), could have adverse effects on the growth of the economy.
13.       Total external debt outstanding at the beginning of FY79 amounted
to about US$7.0 billion of which US$3.76 billion was due to Consortium
bilateral donors, US$1.0 billion to OPEC, US$1.08 billion to multilateral
agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. Contractual
debt service to official agencies rose from US$313 million in FY73 to US$394
in FY77 although the burden of these payments was eased to US$200 and US$310
million respectively as a result of debt relief arrangements. The four-year
debt relief agreement with bilateral consortium members expired on June 30,
1978, and if no further agreement is reached, debt service payments will rise
steeply. In FY79, contractual payments are expected to amount to around
US$535 million and considerably more in subsequent years. As a proportion of
exports, non-factor service payments and workers' remittances, debt service
can be expected to rise from about 15% in the FY75-77 period to around 17.5%
in FY79, assuming substantial growth in both exports and workers remittances.
Pakistan obviously needs to exercise care in protecting its ability to borrow
to meet future requirements, and to restrict commercial borrowing to a minimum.
For this reason, Bank Group lending to Pakistan is currently confined to IDA
credits. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY78 was about
15% of its external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in
total debt service is now about 9%.
14.       Pakistan's resource endowment, especially in the Indus Basin system,
is substantial and during the 1960s the economy demonstrated a considerable
capacity for growth. Rough estimates suggest that the economy could grow at
perhaps 5-6% per annum over the next five years, and that this could be
accompanied by a wider distribution of the benefits of growth than was
achieved during the 1960s. A start has been made in the process of policy
adjustment, but it is clear that a wide range of further initiatives are
necessary to deal with the causes underlying the economy's disappointing
performance in recent years. Only if these new policies and programs are
pursued consistently over a number of years will the basis for longer-term
improvements in living standards for the population as a whole be established.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
15.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$1.7 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. Through FY78, 38% of total commitments were for
public services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for industry (of which 9% was for
industrial imports) and 2% for education. Lending for public services has
amounted to almost US$700 million and has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, Karachi Port, highways, telecommu-
nications and water supplies. A large part of past lending for agriculture
was for Indus Basin projects. Lending for industry has been mainly through
the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). For most
projects for which loans and credits are being disbursed, construction is now
going ahead satisfactorily. The principal problems being encountered are
that the rates charged by some of the public services have not kept pace with
inflation and, hence, some utilities are not earning adequate returns. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31,
1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives.  One of
these is to support the directly productive sectors of the economy and, in
particular, to increase production of import substitutes such as foodgrains,
edible oils, fertilizer and engineering goods and to sustain export growth
in cotton yarn and textiles, rice and a large number of other industrial and
agricultural products. The main part of Bank Group assistance for industry
will continue to be through financial intermediaries. The most important
part of future lending for agriculture is expected to be for the Government's
program to increase productivity in the Indus Basin by controlling salinity
and improving the utilization of surface irrigation and groundwater. The
Bank is the Executing Agency for a UNDP technical assistance grant for
improving agriculture and water planning in the Indus Basin.
17.       Another objective is to support the necessary expansion of, and
to improve the institutions which are responsible for, the principal public
services which have benefitted from Bank Group lending in the past, namely,
the Telegraph and Telephone Department, Karachi Port, Water and Power Devel-
opment Authority, Pakistan Railways, Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Company and
the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency. A number of these agencies are beset
by institutional weaknesses. In some cases, improvements are being made with
technical assistance financed under loans and credits.  In other cases, where
the problems are of such a nature that action by government is required, the
Bank Group is encouraging GOP to take remedial measures.
18.       A third objective is to extend lending operations into areas which
will help to bring economic development to the poorest strata of the popula-
tion. This shift implies increased lending for agriculture and rural develop-
ment and will involve significant lending for projects complementary to the
Indus/Tarbela works. In the urban sector, Bank missions have worked with
municipal authorities on the plans for the urban development of Karachi,



- 7 -
whose population now exceeds 4 million, and Lahore, Pakistan's second largest
city. A Karachi master plan was completed in 1974 with the assistance of
consultants financed by UNDP. Within the framework of the plan, a project
was proposed and appraised for urban upgrading in the Lyari section of the
city. This project, however, has been deferred indefinitely due to Government
reconsideration of the project cost and financial arrangements. Planning in
Lahore is at a much earlier stage than in Karachi and the immediate need is
for technical assistance. Accordingly, the IDA credit for the second Lahore
water supply, sewerage and drainage project includes provision for the financ-
ing of urban studies in Lahore. The emphasis being given to agriculture and
other projects with a low foreign exchange component justifies the financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases.
19.       A number of projects for Bank Group financing are currently under
appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. Projects under appraisal include
a fourth agricultural credit project and a third highways project. Prepara-
tory work is proceeding on a Karachi bulk water supply project, a grain storage
project, a further irrigation and drainage project, and a vocational education
project.
20.       IFC has made investments in nine Pakistan enterprises for a total
of US$30.2 million, of which US$22.8 million was by way of loans and US$7.4
million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II). About US$11
million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC include three
in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles and one each in
cement, steel and fertilizers. IFC is also a shareholder of PICIC.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND EXTENSION SERVICES IN PAKISTAN
The Agricultural Sector
21.       Agriculture remains the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It
accounts for roughly one-third of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force
and, directly or indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of Pakistan's exports
(principally cotton and rice). The irrigated area accounts for about 90% of
farm output. The complex irrigation system based on the Indus and its tri-
butaries covers an area of about 33.5 M ac and constitutes the largest system
in one river basin in the world. The rainfed areas lie largely in the north
and northwest, being concentrated in regions where rainfall averages more than
400 mm per year.
22.       Sind is, agriculturally, the second most productive province of
Pakistan, after Punjab. It is also the second most populous with almost
17 M in 1978 (22% of the national total), 60% of whom live in rural areas.
The land area is almost 35 M ac of which 13.5 M ac are potentially cultivable
and about 8 M ac (59% of the cultivable area) are irrigated each year. Of
these, about 1.3 M ac are double cropped. The predominant tenure pattern is
that of tenant farmers, mostly sharecroppers, who in 1972 accounted for 63%
of about 750,000 farms or about 51% of the farm area in the province. There
are about 24% owner-operated holdings; about 13% of the holdings are partially
owned and partially tenanted.



-8-
23.       Agricultural growth in Pakistan during the 1960s averaged almost 6%
per year, due mainly to the introduction of high yielding varieties of rice
and wheat, increased use of fertilizer and the rapid spread of private tube-
wells. Since the early 1970s, however, the rate of growth has been disappoint-
ing and has failed to keep pace with population. While certain minor crops
have performed well, value added in the major crops was only 8% higher in
1976/77 than in 1971/72 and only 5% up on the exceptionally good year of
1969/70. This disappointing growth can in part be attributed to a series of
climatically unfavorable and politically disturbed years and to delays in the
availability of water from the Tarbela Dam.  However, it is clear that there
are also more fundamental factors which have restricted growth. Yields for
the new varieties are far below those achieved under comparable conditions in
other countries.  Indeed, although average yields of wheat and rice have risen
through the introduction of HYVs, the yields of the HYVs are considerably
lower than in the late 1960s. It would seem that this is due, at least
partly, to poor cultural practices. Although the setback to wheat production
in 1977/78 was mostly in Punjab, the susceptibility of the new varieties
to rust reflects unfavorably on Pakistan's plant breeding programs. Cotton
has also faced a series of setbacks, the most recent being in the current year
when heavy rains and associated pest attacks cut production to well below the
levels achieved in the early 1970s.
24.       Pakistan's ability to sustain faster growth in agricultural produc-
tion will depend not only on programs to increase the availability of water
and other inputs but, more fundamentally, on establishing ways in which the
available resources can be used more efficiently. Programs to increase the
timely availability of water, fertilizer, insecticide, and certified seed will
continue to be important, but past experience has shown that increased avail-
ability is not enough to ensure their satisfactory use. Greater priority
must, in particular, be given to developing new policies and programs that
have a direct impact on removing constraints on productivity at the farm
level.
25.       To ensure the success of farm level programs, inputs need to be made
available in adequate quantities and at appropriate dates, and farmgate prices
must be maintained at levels which encourage their use. Recent increases in
procurement prices and reductions in the prices of fertilizers have improved
price incentives, although the large subsidy on fertilizer imposes a serious
burden on the national budget. However, there is still room for major improve-
ments in the water delivery system, in general land and water management and
in the standard of farming practices. It now seems certain that the losses
in the watercourses are much higher than originally assumed and that, in part,
this explains why cropped areas have failed to respond at the expected rate
as supplies of water increased. Watercourse improvement programs are being
initiated but the scope of these is insignificant compared with the need. In
addition, cultural practices have changed little since the early 1960s despite
the introduction of high yielding varieties.
26.       Small farmers having less than 7.5 ac constitute over 40% of the
farmers in Pakistan--although they account for only 12% of the total farm



- 9 -
area. In the past they have been neglected and the major benefits from
increased inputs and improved technologies have gone to the larger farms.
Research and extension need to be geared to generating and spreading techno-
logies appropriate to the smaller farmers, and special measures may be neces-
sary to ensure that they benefit from future programs aimed at augmenting
production.
27.       The need for broadening agricultural strategies to include farm
level and related programs was identified and discussed in detail in a Special
Agricultural Sector Review, distributed to the Executive Directors in March
1976. 1/ Since then, a number of projects have been initiated in Pakistan
or are under active consideration which take this need into account. They
include the Seeds Project and the Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project, approved by the Executive Directors in FY76; the Punjab
Livestock Project and Third Education Project (which includes an important
component for agricultural training), approved in FY77; the SCARP VI Project
and the Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project, approved in
FY78; and the SCARP Mardan Project, approved in FY79.
28.       Following the Sector Review, and in order to assist the Government
further in carrying out the new strategy for agricultural development, the
Bank has identified further projects in the fields of agricultural extension
and research; agricultural credit; irrigation, drainage and salinity control;
foodgrain storage; and the integrated development of livestock and forestry.
Funds for project preparation are being provided through a number of on-going
projects. In addition, the UNDP is financing the preparation of a Revised
Action Plan for the Indus Basin (with the Bank as Executing Agency) and has
indicated its willingness to support the strengthening of project preparation
capacity in the Federal Ministry and Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
Extension Services
29.       A major impediment to achieving the efficient use of the available
resources and technologies at the farm level has been the lack of effective
extension services for transmitting improved farming and management practices
to the farmers. Agricultural extension is the responsibility of the four
provincial agricultural departments. The service has insufficient staff and
limited facilities. It has focused on providing services, such as pesticides
spraying, rather than advice and training to farmers. The IDA-financed Punjab
Extension and Agricultural Development Project, now in the early stages
of implementation, is designed to address these deficiencies in five of the
22 districts in Punjab and it is anticipated that similar programs will be
developed for other districts in Punjab in due course.
30.       In March 1978, the Government of Sind decided to change the work-
ing of its entire agricultural extension service on the lines of the Training
1/   Report No. 922a-PAK



- 10 -
and Visit (T&V) System 1/, and received technical assistance from the Bank to
assist with organizing the change, which was introduced in May 1978. Although
the adoption of the T&V system is a major step forward, extension services in
Sind continue to suffer from insufficient and inadequately trained staff and
from deficiencies in adaptive research, accommodation, transport and other
facilities.
31.       The Field Assistant (FA) is the lowest level extension worker.  He
may be assisted by one or two skilled laborers ("beldars"), mainly in plant
protection activities. There is approximately one FA to every 1,000 farmers
in Sind at present. Housing for the field staff in Sind, as in the other
provinces, is inadequate even for higher level officers. In consequence, many
field staff live in accommodation provided by the larger landowners who thus
establish a prior claim on their services. Inadequate transport facilities
are a major hindrance to effective operation, and lack of funds restricts
compensation to staff for travelling expenses.
32.       An important part of the FAs' time in Sind (as well as that of
their skilled laborers) is taken up by spraying farmers' crops, mainly for
cotton and orchards. The FAs spend about two-thirds of their time in the
summer (kharif) season and one-third in the winter (rabi) season on cotton
pest control. In the rabi season, they work mainly on orchards and, to a
limited extent, on Brassica oilseeds. The agriculture departments also use
the FAs as salesmen for pesticides and sprayers and about 10-15% of the
pesticides and 20-25% of the sprayers used in the province are handled in
this way. Further, the FAs have to compile various statistical information.
Time available for advice to farmers on crop husbandry is therefore limited
and irregular. Much of the actual agricultural extension work is done by the
Agricultural Officers (AOs), who supervise the FAs, but invariably the AOs
concentrate on the larger farmers, leaving the majority of the smaller farmers
with little and mostly indirect access to the extension service. As a result
of the adoption by GOSind of the Training and Visit System, there are now
clear job descriptions for all staff grades. Day-by-day schedules for FAs
and AOs have been prepared and are closely followed. However, the FAs have
not been relieved of their work on pest control. Most of them, and the AOs,
are under some pressure from the large landowners to maintain the exclusive
services they used to render before the adoption of the T&V System. The
leverage to do so is the housing the landowners provide. These and other
problems are addressed by the proposed project.
1/   A general description of this method is found in the Bank publication
"Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System" by D. Benor
and James Q. Harrison (May 1977).



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project was prepared by the Sind Agriculture Department
with assistance from Bank staff. A larger project than now proposed was ini-
tially envisaged but a reduction in project scope was agreed during project
preparation in view of GOSind's severe budgetary problems. The project was
appraised in November 1978. Negotiations for the proposed credit took place
in Washington during April 1979. The Pakistan Delegation was headed by
Mr. R.A. Akhund, Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development, Gov-
ernment of Sind. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Pakistan: Sind
Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research" (Report No. 2387-PAK, dated
May 7, 1979) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
34.       In many areas of Sind conditions are suitable for highly productive
farming. The climate is suitable for the cultivation of warm and cool weather
crops; the southern part of the Province has near ideal conditions for sugar-
cane growing and yields equal to those of any of the major cane areas of the
world are obtainable. However, the opportunities presented by this environ-
ment remain largely unexploited and average yields of all crops are low
compared with those obtained by the better farmers in the area. As indicated
in Part III of this report, this situation has to a large extent arisen
because appropriate technical information has not been properly imparted to
the farmers; agricultural extension has been traditionally weak and poorly
organized, and such information as has been provided has often focused on
investments requiring substantially increased cash inputs, which often are
beyond the means of the majority of the farmers. The objective of the project
is to raise yields by providing to farmers an extension service which would
give them relevant and timely technical advice, based on research findings
adapted to suit the local conditions.
Project Description
35.       The project would support the reorganization and strengthening of
extension services in all the 12 rural districts of Sind to the maximum
extent permitted by GOSind's present financial situation. The project
would (a) set up in five districts extension services optimal in terms of
staff members and organization and supported fully by investments in equip-
ment, transportation and housing; (b) increase the effectiveness of extension
staff in the remaining seven districts, mainly by redeploying staff resources
and with minimal investments in the most important components; and (c) estab-
lish a cadre of subject matter specialists and a program of adaptive research
to support extension activity throughout the Province.
36.       The project would provide in the Hyderabad, Sanghar, Nawabshah,
Sukkur and Larkana districts:



- 12 -
--   additional extension staff (field assistants, agricul-
tural officers, assistant directors of agriculture,
subject matter specialists); and
--   suitable housing, offices, transport and transport
operating costs for all extension staff.
37.       In the remaining seven districts, there would be no increase
in the number of FAs. However, the project would:
--   introduce a ratio of first and second line supervisors
for the existing FAs in the seven districts
similar to that of the five "core" districts; and
--   provide all staff with suitable transport and funds
for operating such transport;
38.       For the entire Province, the project would provide:
--   Senior Subject Matter Specialists to train and technically
support field staff;
--   adaptive research farms and laboratories to test, and
modify if necessary, agronomic techniques specifically
adapted to the agro-climatic zones of the province; and
--   consultancy and training assistance to enable quick and
efficient project implementation and to provide expertise
in fields not at present available to the Department of
Agriculture (soil testing, farm planning and management).
39.       In addition, there would be a pest scouting component on a pilot
scale in Nawabshah, one of the main cotton-growing districts of the Province.
Further details of each of the project components are provided below (para-
graphs 42 to 55).
Project Area
39.       The Province of Sind is divided into three administrative divi-
sions, of which two are rural (Hyderabad and Sukkur); the third is the city
of Karachi (Map IBRD 14187). The rural divisions have six districts each.
The districts are subdivided into about 5 to 6 talukas. The taluka head-
quarters are usually the major marketing centers, both for farm produce and
farm inputs, with most of the products being handled by commission agents.
Expelling of vegetable oil is concentrated mainly in the district headquarter
towns. There are large modern flour mills in Hyderabad, Nawabshah, Sukkur and
Larkana; rice milling is also well developed and a number of modern, efficient
husking mills have been established. Processing industries include 12 sugar-
mills and a large number of cotton ginneries. Secondary processing industries



- 13 -
are spinning and weaving, principally in Hyderabad and Sukkur, and a large
plant in Hyderabad that manufactures vegetable shortening.
40.       Annual rainfall varies from a low of about 2-3 inches in the north
to more than 6.5 inches in the southern part of Sind. Most of the rainfall
occurs between June and September. The climate is suitable for year-round
cropping. There are about 330 rainless, sunny days. Thus, given adequate
water supply, climatic conditions are ideal for attaining good crop yields.
Soils are diverse, with a predominance of silt and sandy loans. Topography
is flat, making it possible to irrigate about 88% of the cultivable lands.
There are two principal cropping seasons: kharif (mid-April to mid-October)
and rabi (mid-October to mid-April). The most important crops in the kharif
season are cotton, rice, sugarcane and millets; in the rabi season, wheat,
gram and oilseeds predominate. The cultivation of bananas is also being
developed as an important export crop for the Persian Gulf countries.
41.        Between 1932 and 1963, three barrages, Sukkur, Kotri and Guddu,
were built in the Indus River to enable the controlled diversion of river
flows. The total cultivable command area of these barrages is about
13.2 M ac (6.0 M ac seasonal and 7.2 M ac perennial). A relatively small
storage lake balances water supplies for about 200,000 ac of the Kotri Barrage
command area near Karachi. Otherwise, the Province augments its run-of-the-
river rabi supplies from its share of the Tarbela dam, about 700 km to the
north. Groundwater is only fit for irrigation in a relatively narrow strip of
land along the Indus and the potential for tubewell irrigation is less than
in Punjab. The present number of privately owned tubewells is about 4,600.
Project Components
42.        Field Staff.  Under the proposed project, the number of Field
Assistants in the five "core" districts would be increased from 375 at present
to about 594 over the period 1980-83. The Agricultural Training Institute in
Sakrand will graduate new diplomates to fill 100 of these additional positions
during this period. The remaining additional FAs would be selected from among
the present cadre of "beldars" (see paragraph 31). All beldars come from
farming families; many have worked for the Agriculture Department for several
years and a large number are literate. At least 120 of the approximately 1,000
in the province would be suitable for selection as FAs following specially
designed training at Sakrand. Minor investments in facilities at the Institute
would be required and will be funded under the project.
43.       The increased field staff would reduce the FA-farmer ratio in the
five districts from about 1:1000 to 1:660.  The approximately 660 farmers
whom one FA would be expected to assist would be divided into eight groups of
about 80 families. Out of each subgroup, 10 to 15 contact farmers would be
chosen as the principal channel for conveying extension messages to the other
farmers. The messages would focus on the most important local crops and on
practices of immediate relevance; their content would be related to farm size
and farmer ability to invest and take risks. The FAs would also carry out
demonstrations and undertake trials on farmers' fields. They would make no
formal reports but would keep a daily diary to record farm visits, major
recommendations made and problems to be discussed with supervisors.



- 14 -
44.       The number of first-line supervisors of the FAs, the Agricultural
Officers (AOs) would be increased in the five districts from 91 to 99. These
officers would be available partly from surplus AOs in the other seven dis-
tricts and partly from the about 100 BSc and MSc students who graduate from
the Tando Jam Agricultural University each year. Each AO would supervise
about six FAs, help them in carrying out their demonstrations and assist in
other technical matters. The AOs would participate in the FAs' training
programs and would continuously check that the FAs adhere to their schedule
and convey appropriate messages to farmers.
45.       At the sub-divisional level, 15 Assistant Directors of Agriculture
(ADAs) would be appointed. The ADAs would be responsible for all extension
activities in the sub-division and would report to the district Deputy
Director of Agriculture (DDA) who would have overall responsibility for all
agricultural extension and related research activities within his district.
At present, there are no DDAs at district level and five would, therefore, be
appointed under the project. A Director-General (Extension) with experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Association would also be appointed
(Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). All the extension
staff would be relieved of duties that do not directly pertain to the dis-
semination of farming advice (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       Training and Research Staff.  Each of the 12 districts would have
three Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs); their disciplines would be plant
protection, agronomy, and training. Many of the serving AOs have the neces-
sary experience and qualifications to be further trained as SMSs. The SMSs
would be the principal teachers at the training courses for the FAs, which
would be held fortnightly. When not directly engaged with training sessions,
they would spend at least half their time in the field, accompanying the FAs
and AOs on their farm visits and advising and assisting in selecting and
managing demonstration plots.
47.       Some of the Senior Research Officers who at present are involved in
adaptive research activities in the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) at
Tando Jam and the Rice Research Institute (RRI) at Dokri, would be reassigned
to four provincial adaptive research farms as Senior Subject Matter Specialist
(SSMSs). They would be supported by a total of eight Research Assistants (two
in each farm). The SSMSs would spend about half their time on adaptive
research work and half in providing technical support for the SMSs and AOs.
Part of their regular duties would be to review the technical contents of the
training program for the FAs. It is expected that the proposed team of SSMSs
and SMSs would be able to develop and provide the appropriate advice for the
great majority of problems that would arise. The SSMSs would maintain close
contacts with the two research institutes and be able to consult with its
staff as necessary. There would be a total of 14 SSMSs, whose services would
equally available to all districts in the Province. The GOSind would ensure
that the appointments of staff required under the project would be carried out
according to a program and timetable satisfactory to the Association (Section
2.04 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 15 -
48.        Staff Quarters and Other Buildings.  One of the principal limita-
tions on the present extension service is the virtual absence of Government
housing in rural areas. Housing would be provided as necessary in the five
"core" districts, as well as training centers in the sub-divisional head-
quarters, where most of the routine training activities would be carried out,
and housing and farm buildings on the adaptive research farms. The project
would provide a total of 650 housing units, four sets of farm buildings and
offices, two soil testing laboratories and 15 office complexes with training
centers.
49.        Staff Transport.  The lack of transport, and shortage of operating
funds for staff travel, would be remedied under the project in all 12 dis-
tricts. It is proposed to provide FAs with bicycles. The AOs and SMS would
have motorcycles, except the SMS (Training) who would need a half-ton pick-up
truck. The bicycles and motorcyles would be purchased by their users.
Provision would be made for cash advances to eligible staff members, which
would be repayable according to guidelines set by the Public Service Commis-
sion. An operating allowance would be given which would be based on the
estimated monthly distances to be travelled on duty and would be sufficient
to compensate the owner for fuel and normal maintenance and repair costs, as
well as amortization. Officers above the rank of AO would be provided with
suitable inspection vehicles. Each district would, in addition, have a 1.5 ton
truck, for moving material required for demonstration or teaching purposes
that the SMS (training) is unable to transport in the course of his normal
duties.
50.       Adaptive Research Farms (ARFs) would be established in four of the
five major agro-climatic zones of the Province. The purpose of these farms
would be to serve as a link between the research work of the ARI at Tando Jam
and the RRI in Dokri, and to be a testing ground of their recommendations
under farm conditions.
51.       The farms would need adequate equipment to enable them to perform
all operations in good time, and also to have the means to till, plant and
harvest research plots on farmers' fields. Accordingly, each station requires
suitable trailers for their four-WD vehicles, capable of transporting a four-
wheel tractor and its equipment; also two-wheel tractors, which would be used
for light work on research plots in farmers' fields. The Research Assistants
would be provided with motorcycles, under arrangements similar to those for
the AOs and SMSs. Scales, sprayers, simple testing and sampling tools, and
sundry other equipment would also be provided. Transport needs for the farms
and for the SMSs, who would have to travel extensively in the agro-climatic
zones of their stations, would be met by three four-WD vehicles on each farm
and by a pick-up for use by the farm manager and the Research Assistants, for
light hauling.
52.       Soil Laboratories would be attached to two of the ARFs to advise
farmers on fertilizer applications based on actual chemical tests of their
soils. Each laboratory would have the capability to analyze about 2,000
samples per month, in single shift operation.



- 16 -
53.       Technical Information Unit.  The Department of Agriculture in Sind
does not have a technical information unit at present. Such an organization
is an essential means of communication with the farming community to help
ensure that techical messages are conveyed in a professional manner. A unit
would therefore be established under the project for this purpose. The unit
would make use of pamphlets, radio spots and articles placed in the local and
national newspapers to disseminate information.
54.       Consulting Services and Training.  To introduce effectively and
adapt the T&V system to the needs of the province, train the staff at all
levels (including the pest scouts), supplement farm management expertise and
assist the Sind Regional Planning Organization to monitor and evaluate the
functioning and impact of the reorganized extension services, about 55 man-
months of technical assistance would be required. Consulting services and
training would be provided by a UNDP technical assistance project for which
the Bank would act as executing agency. The estimated cost per man-month
is approximately US$9,000.
55.       Pest Scouting.  Cotton yields in Sind fluctuate considerably accord-
ing to the severity of pest attacks. A 50% to 60% improvement in yields is
within the genetic potential of the present varieties, if, in addition to
improving the basic crop agronomy, the crop is also adequately protected
against pests. A pest scouting service would ensure that farmers are advised
when to spray for maximum effectiveness against the three principal cotton
pests in Sind (jassids, the spotted and the pink bollworm). The pest scouts
would monitor the population of the pink bollworm, and assist the farmers
through the FAs to monitor the jassid and spotted bollworm population. Ini-
tially, pest scouting would be confined to Nawabshah district, where the
Cotton Research Institute is located. The scouts would be agricultural
graduates, who would receive intensive training in the new discipline. There
would be four scouts in the district, operating pheromone traps, for assaying
the pink bollworm population build-up. If the findings indicate the presence
of a high population of pink bollworms, the scouts would advise the farmer,
through the FAs, to spray immediately. The scouts would reside in taluka
headquaters and travel on their daily rounds on four-wheel drive vehicles to
be provided under the project. Pesticides and sprayers would be available
to farmers through the Sind Agricultural Supply Organization (SASO) and the
private sector; the FAs would demonstrate methods and give advice on mixing
and handling the chemicals and also on the best type of sprayers to use.
Project Organization
56.       Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
the Department of Agriculture and, within it, primarily with the Agricultural
Extension Directorate. The Director of Adaptive Research (DAR) would report
to the Director General (Extension) but would maintain close and constant
contact with the Director of the Agricultural Research Institute in Tando Jam
and the Director of the Rice Research Institute in Dokri. Design, construc-
tion and subsequent maintenance of the buildings would be the task of the
Communication and Works Department. A Project Coordinator in the office of
the Chief Engineer (Buildings) of the Communication and Works Department would
be responsible for the engineering and administration of the project buildings



- 17 -
(Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement). The identification of the
right kind of vehicles for the project and their acquisition would be the duty
of the Agricultural Engineering Directorate, working with the Director-General
(Extension). The latter would consult with the two divisional Directors of
Agriculture and the DAR with regard to the equipment requirements of the ARFs.
Equipment requirements for producing and presenting simple visual aids for
staff training and for farmer meetings would be identified and procured by
the Director-General (Extension) in consultation with audio-visual aid
specialists.
57.       The project would be coordinated by:  (a) a Project Review Com-
mittee, chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries,
and composed of the Director General (Extension); the Director of the Agri-
cultural Research Institute of Tando Jam and the Director of the Rice Research
Institute of Dokri; senior officers of the Irrigation Department, Sind Seeds
Corporation, the Cooperative Societies and the Sind Agricultural Supplies
Organization; the Divisional Commissioners; and representatives of the banks
that provide credit to the farmers; and (b) District Advisory Committees,
chaired by the District Deputy Director of Agriculture and composed of the
senior District officials of the same organizations represented in the Project
Review Committee (Section 2.08 of the draft Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
58.       Total cost of the project is estimated to be US$14.27 M equivalent
(including US$0.5 M for duties and taxes). The breakdown is as follows:
Local   Foreign   Total
(Us$ M)-------
I.   Land Acquisition                 0.07       -       0.07
II.   Civil Works                      4.88    0.90       5.78
III.   Equipment and Transport          0.67    0.57        1.24
IV.   Incremental Operating Costs    1.85    1.01          2.85
V.   Consultants and Training         0.02    0.69        0.71
Total Base Cost                  7.42    3.16      10.58
Physical Contingency             0.52    0.21       0.73
Price Escalation                 2.12    0.84       2.96
TOTAL PROJECT COST              10.06    4.41      14.27
Note: Errors due to rounding.



- 18 -
59.       The proposed IDA credit of US$9.0 M equivalent would finance 65% of
project costs, exclusive of duties and taxes. This would cover US$4.2 M of
the estimated foreign exchange costs and 56% of the local costs of US$10.06 M.
The proceeds of the credit would be on-lent to the Government of Sind on the
same terms as the IDA credit. The foreign exchange component of consultants
and training costs (US$0.69 M) would be covered by the UNDP and the remaining
44% of the project's local cost would be met by GOP and GOSind.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.        Contracts for the construction and furnishing of the buildings and
ARF complexes (US$5.78 M) would be let in accordance with GOSind's procedures
for local competitive bidding, which are satisfactory to IDA. Tractors and
implements (US$0.09 M) would be purchased through the Pakistan Tractor
Corporation; motorcycles, motorcars, pickups and four-wheel drive vehicles
(US$0.90 M) through the Pakistan Automobile Corporation. Both these corpora-
tions obtain their supplies from international sources in accordance with
procedures that are satisfactory to IDA. Bicycles and other equipment
(US$0.09 M) would be purchased according to International Competitive Bidding
procedures or other procedures acceptable to IDA. In the case of participa-
tion in ICB by Pakistan manufacturers, a margin of preference of 15% of the
cif prices or the prevailing duties, if lower, would be applicable. Vehicles,
goods, and materials up to a total value of US$350,000 may be purchased off-
the-shelf in small contracts of US$15,000 or less according to GOP prudent
shopping procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.
61.       Disbursements from the credit would be made against 95% of expendi-
tures for the construction of housing, training and research facilities; 100%
of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles and equipment; 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory) for vehicles and equipment manufactured
locally; and 90% of expenditures for other vehicles and equipment procured
locally. Disbursements against all categories would be fully documented and
are expeCted to be completed by June 30, 1984.
Monitoring and Evaluation
62.       An essential component of the project is a program to monitor the
project's impact and evaluate the results achieved, principally the number
of farmers reached by the extension service and the relative gains in yields
achieved by those farmers. This information would assist GOSind in determin-
ing further programs for improving extension services in the project. Guide-
lines on the proposed methodology are described in "A System for Monitoring
and Evaluating Agricultural Extension Projects" (World Bank Staff Paper No.
272) which has been adapted to reflect conditions in Pakistan. Monitoring
and evaluation would be conducted by the Sind Regional Planning Organization.
Economic Benefits and Risks
63.        The principal economic benefit of the project would be the increase
in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains, as a consequence of the
impact of the new extension and research system on agricultural yields. In



- 19 -
the past, agricultural development strategy in Pakistan has been aimed largely
at expanding the cropped area, such as through investment in irrigation, and
at providing improved packages of inputs. Both extension and research have
been neglected, to the detriment particularly of smaller farmers. Marginal
and small farmers, now living close to or below the poverty line, would be
the primary beneficiaries of the new system and of the project's emphasis on
better use of existing resources. Attributing a precise level of benefits
to this type of project is difficult since improvements in agricultural
practices and increased use of farm inputs cannot be attributed solely to
extension and research. Moreover, there is no experience in Pakistan to
estimate acceptance rates with any degree of accuracy. However, there is no
doubt that the substantial improvement in the efficiency of utilization of
resources which should be brought about by the project would generate a high
rate of return. If yields increased by at least 3% in five years over the
"without project" situation, the economic rate of return would exceed 50%.
This expectation is reasonable, since the better farmers in Sind already get
nearly twice the average yields of the Province and, on research stations,
even higher levels are reached. In an extreme situation, for the project
to have at least a 15% rate of return, the improved extension service would
have to bring about an average yield increase of only 0.3% per year over
the "without project" situation.
64.       The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of the new extension methodology is highly dependent on an efficient organi-
zation and management of extension and research services, as well as on
farmer response. Experience with ongoing projects in neighboring countries,
however, has already demonstrated that the new system can work efficiently
in formulation and delivery of messages, and in motivating farmers. UNDP has
already initiated actions to finalize an agreement with the Government to pro-
vide the consulting services for the project, which would include assistance
to the Sind Department of Agriculture in the organization, operation and man-
agement of their extension services (see paragraph 54 above). The Bank, as
executing agency, would select and appoint the consultants in consultation
with the Government. Experience with similar UNDP projects shows that delays
in the appointment of consultants, which have occurred in some other agri-
cultural projects in Pakistan, can be avoided through this process.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Province of Sind and the Recomendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section II of Annex III. Additional conditions
of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement)
are the appointment of the Director General (Extension), the establishment
of the Project Review Committee and action by GOSind to relieve agricultural
extension staff of all duties that do not directly pertain to the dissemina-
tion of farming advice.



- 20 -
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
May 14, 1979



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PAKISTAN                                                I
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            803.9                                                   SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     244.5                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION Le   GROUP /d    GROUP ME
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        120.0     190.0           167.4       182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      61.0        98.0      183.0            65.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        45.3        59.8       73.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.5         24.8      26.5            12.8        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       56.0        74.0       91.0            85.2        46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    198.0        246.0     300.0           322.6       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.8        43.4       46.5            44.0        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        52.7       50.5            52.9       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.6         3.9        3.0             2.9         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3          2.9       3.0             2.2         2.4         2.7
URBAN                              5.0          4.0       3.9             4.2         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     49.2         47.6      47.4            45.1        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     26.3         20.1      16.5            17.3        19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2          3.7       3.6             3.2         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..      1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..         ..            13.7        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             81.0        100.0      96.6 /f         95.6        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   84.0        94.0       93.0            91.1        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          48.5         59.4      54.0            49.6        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       16.0 /g.h   14.0       14.3            12.6        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..        17.4        ..               ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.1         47.4      49.8            43.1        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          142.0 /gi  124.3       113.0            99.5       102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         21.0      25.0            30.0        26.4        31.1
URBAN                               ..         77.0      75.0            66.3        63.5        68.5
RURAL                               ..          4.0       5.0            17.2        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          3.0       6.0            15.7        16.1        37.5
URBAN                               ..         12.0      21.0            66.9        65.9        69.5
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..             2.5         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          7450.0 /1   4310.0 a4 3910.0 /I        8830.8    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    14860.0       8440.0 Li 7180.0 /1       8479.3      6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2070.0       1870.0    1870.0          1624.5      1157.6       786.5
URBAN                            370.0        500.0     560.0              ..       183.3       278.4
RURAL                          22850.0      12390.0   12360.0               ..     1348.8      1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..        ..               ..       19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4          5.3        ..               ..        5.2
URBAN                              5.6          5.5        ..               ..        4.8
RURAL                              5.4          5.2        ..               ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.1           ..        ..
URBAN                              3.1           ..        ..               ..        1.8         2.3
RURAL                              3.1           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..               ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..               ..        8.7        10.3



- 22 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PARISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
PAKISTAN                                                  /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MUST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION L   GROUP Ld    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEDI ENROLLMENT RATIOS                                         m
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0       51 50-           59.1        62.9         75.8
FEMALE                13.0         24.0       31:O/In          38.4        45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0       15.0             19.9        14.4         17.7
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0        7.0              9.9         8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SEGONDARY)  1.0            1.5        1.5              1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         41.0       42.0             38.2        38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0       19.0             23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          16.0        20.0       21.0/0           35.6        36.7         63.7
CONSL0MPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          3.0        3.0              2.2         3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         14.0       15.0             14.9        31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.7        1.8               ..         2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     7.0          ..        5.0              6.4         6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8             ..        3.0 /k             *-        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0        18100.0   20400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.7          9.3        9.9             21.3        24.2         28.0
AGRICUILTURE (PERCENT)              59.0         57.0       54.8             62.8        60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9         18.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7       27.9             35.8        39.8         37.8
MALE                                  55.2         50.4       48.6             52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5        5.7             15.6        19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.6          1.6       1.7              1.3          1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3 /1        17.8       17.3             18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSENOLDS  45.3 /1        41.8       41.5             42.8        45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4 /1         8.0        8.4              7.3         5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5 /1        20.2       20.6             19.3        16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
LRBAN                                 ..           ..       65.0             80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                                       83.0             67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..               ..       100.8        143.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..       48.0             39.8        42.0         87.3
ESTLMATE) POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       48.0             50.3        46.0         22.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       31.0             44.6        48.0         36.7
S. ot availahEe
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group avecages for each indicator are population-weighted geonetric neans, excludIng the extreme
values of the indicator and the nost populated country in each group.  Clverage of countries among the
indicator- depends on availability of data and is not unIform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data fur 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estilate, between 1973 and 1977.
/    South Ania;  /d  Low Incone ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /I  Lower Middle Ineone (S281-550 pnr capita,
1976);   /f  1977;   L   Includes Bangladesh;   /h  1960-62;   iR  1962-65;   X  Regintered, not aRE
p-actistng 1n the country;   /k  1972;  /I  1963-64.
/o   1977/78 estimate is 54.
/n       1977/78  estimate  is  33.
/o       1977/78  estimate  is  24.                                                               September  1978



- 23 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATirTS                                                       ANNEX   I
bUc:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometic means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and thu most
populated country in each grou?. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of date and is nor uniform. Due to lack of data,
group avorages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty ore
simple population-weighted geometric reans without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAvD AREA (thousand eq. kh)                                                                 Population pen hospital bed - total,  urban, and rural - Population 'LcrLo.
Total - Total surfac. area compr'sing laud area sod inland waters.                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital bacs
Agricultural - Metost recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and private general and specialized hospital cod ro-
or permanently for crops, postures, market and kitchan gardens or to                       habilitation  centes s.  Nospitals are esiablishn.ets permenetl v stafted bh
lie fallow,                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and tedi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP par capita estimates at current market prioas.                     cal centers not permaae.rtlv staffed by a physician (but by s medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                   istont, our-e, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodatioo and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admisaion- par hospital bed - Total nsmber of admissiess to or dischargou
ENERGY CONSUMPTIION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                     fton  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal eqoivalent per capita.                       DItSING
Avereag  sine of household (persons per household) - coral, urban, and rural-
POPULATION  0ND VITAL STArlSTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuols who share living quartets
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may nont b  included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                             the ho.u.hold for statistical purpoese.  Statietical definitions of houso-
"rha. population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hcld vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average non-
of data among countries.                                                                  ber of parsons per rone in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures cod
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      anocrupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Aceoss to electricity  (perrent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agrioultunr  laud - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Zcnventionel d-ellings with electricity in living quartets as porcentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Populatior age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-ege
(15-64 years), and ratirad ;65 yars and over) as percentages of mid-                  EDUCATION
year populaticn.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (ce             total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rat.s of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at tho primary level as percentages of respectively princey school-ugn
1960-70, sod 1970-75.                                                                     populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjssted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education: for counories with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       curios enrollment may exceed 100 percent since eons pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent est_mate.                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 asd 1970                      tiot requires ot l.aat four years of approved primary instroctirn; pro-
and five-year aveaage ending in 1975 for nout recent estinate.                            video general vocational, or teacher trainorg ifntructi-os for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                         excluded.
spacific fertility rates; ensally five-year averages .nding in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institotio.s  ln-
1970, and 1975.                                                                           clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operute indepesdoctl-
Famtily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                          or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students earolled in
planning program.                                                                         prisary sad secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the core-
Fa=ily planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and writ.l ,c
derioca  o a11 married women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 1S years and over.
FOOD AND NIUIRIIION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
ilden of food production per capta. (1970=-IC) - Inde- number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars  mooptiso sonar curs
capita annual production of all food cuom-dities.                                       seating less than eight persons; eacludes ambulasces, heacons and militry
Per capita supply of calories (percent of renuirementa) - Computed from                   vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radir receivers (per thousand population) - All types of r-ceivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of populaion; e.vcluds aulienased
exports, and chauges is stack.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets cas in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; drat  for r-cest years mop not be comporable since yout countries
quire=erts were astimated by PAC basad on physiological needs for nor-                  sbolished licensing.
nal activity and bealth considericg ecvironmeotal temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thous.ad population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and se. distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers  n cour.-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tvies and in years when registration of TV sets was in affect.
PFr capita maPcli  of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows thi  average circula-
capita net supply of food per day,  Net supply ot food is defined as                      tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above,  Reqoireneots for all countriea established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to rucor-dig general nuws.  It is concidorad to
a einimum allowance of 60 grams of total peatein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a week,
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal proteir.               Cinema ar.nual attendarce per capita per year - BOsed on the rusher of tickets
Those standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the yasr, including admisaic.s to drive-in cicomas sod mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        Umits.
PAC in the Thiod World PFod Survey.
Per capita proteJn supply fron animal andpaus  - Protein supply of food                 EMPLOYIMIET
derived from animals asd pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Econo-icaily actioe persons. inc,uding arc-d
Child (ages 1-4i)  ortality rae  (per thoweadd) - Annual deaths per thous-                   farces and unemployed but excluding housewivos, otudonts, t-c.  Defini-
add in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Fsedle (porcest) - Pael  labor force as perceoage of trtal 1  bor fats.
iEALTU                                                                                     Agriculture (ptrcent) - Labor force is farming, forestry, hcting  ad f ishing
Life eapectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of trtal labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   tedustry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construotiun, manufc-uring and
cad 1975.                                                                                 elemtricity, water and gas as percentage of total ls.bo  force.
Infant mortality  atae (p-r thcusand) - Ancual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, maie, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  Female labor force as percentages of their respective pop,lations.
Access to oafe watsn  (percent of population) - total, urbam, and rural -                    These  -te ILOs adjusted psrticipation rutes reflectingaan-stv
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access ro                       stru0tare of rhe pop,ulation, red long time trend.
oaf.  -ato- ouppl  (inucludes creared surface waters or untreated but                   Econumic dopeneroe, rat  - Rsatio of popalatisn under IS and 6S anc acer t.
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentagee of their veepestive populations.
Is an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                      INCO1iE DlISTRILTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                    P-eretage of private incrom  (both in rash and kind) rsceived by rchn-t 
sonable access of thae horse.   In rural areas reasonable access would                     percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percont, and poorn.s  40 percent
imply that tho housewife cr m.ebers of rho household do cot have to                        of households.
upend a disproportionmte part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e-c-rta disposal (p. cn..   t of popuLation) - total, urban, end                Estimated absolute poverty incone level (IS) per cap.to.: -aoba. .-cid_0cr,
rural - Number of people (total, urban, ard rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level belos-  hict, a viioa-
disposal an percentages of their respective populations.  EOcreta                           otrotieosa.ly adequate diet pis essestisl non-food  iareiracoccu 1s ncr
disposal say include the collecrion and disposal, with or without                          offcrdubl-
treatment, of human eacrets end waste-water by water-hoca systems                      Estieared relativepoverty inocue levelP perata)-urtar and r-zrs 
or che use of pit privles and simlsar installations.                                      iRlative poverty ir...e level is that invome  level less than  nu-thrhrd
Pop tia       per  h-iciat - Population divided by  cnmber of practiciog                     ptr capirs persona: ircome cf tho country.
physicians qualifiod from a medical ecihoi as usiversity level.                         eronmted population below poverty inocme level (percent) - urban and rural -
Populatios per nursing persa  - Populacic,- divided by number of                             Percent of pupulatton (urban and rural) who are either "abso-ute poot" or
practicihg male and female graduate curses, practical nurses, and                          "litive po" whichever is g t.
assist ant sir sea. 
1 conooic and Social iata Ilvtsi-r
irornOic AaDalvis cnd Prucctions lleportcent



- 24-
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977/78                                                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (X, constant prices)
88$ billion       .%                                                             1972/73-1976/77       1977/78
GNP at Market Prices                 18.02          100.0                                                                   4.1               6.4
Gross Domestic Investment             3.10           17.2
Gross National Saving                 2.46           13.7
Current Account Balance              -0.65           -3.6
Resource Balance                     -1.62           -9.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE ANlD PRODUCTIVITY  N 1977/781a
Value Added             Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker.
US$ million   _         nlillion     %           U_         _
Agriculture            4,888        32         12.0       55          407          58
Industry               3,558        23          4.1      19          868         123
Services               6,957        45          5.8      26        1,199         170
Total/Average       15,403       100        21.9      100          703         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                             Central Government
Re billi.o             %  f GDP                                             (Rs billiut            /. of GDP
1977/78        1977/78      1973(74-1977178                                  1977/78      1977/78      1973/74-1977178
Currant Receipts                    26.7           17.5               16.9                                        20.4         13.4              12.8
Current Expenditures                27.7           18.1               18.2                                        20.0         13.1              13.3
Current Surplus;Deficit             -1.0           -0.6              -1.3                                          0.4          0.3              -0.5
Capital Expenditures                15.9           10.4              10.9                                         13.4          8.8               8.9
External Assistance (net)            6.7            4.4                5.2                                         6.7          4.4               5.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1973/74       1974/75      1975/76     1976/77      1977/78
(billion R. outstacndine at end af period)
Money and Quasi Money                           29.2          34.3         42.8         5S.8         64.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)              14.2          16.9         22.1         28.7         33.4
Bask Credit to Private Sector                   15.6          19.7         23.1         30.1         35.7
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               36.6          33.1         35.7         39.7         42.4
Wh.olesale Price loden (1969/70 = 100)        170.9         211.3        229.4        255.3        268.7
Ann-al Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                           32.8          23.6          8.6         11.3          5.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)              ..            18.6         30.6         29.7         16.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   ..            26.7         17.1         30.4         18.5
/a Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Serious
underenemeration nay exist, especially of women.                                                                                                May 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I                           ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                      1975/76      1976/77    1977/78    1978/74-                   MERChANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1978/79)
(Uss milEion)                                                          US$ million        %
Exports of Good., NFS                     1,432         1,404       1,644       2,050                  Raw Cotton                    72.1           5.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                    2,587         2,877       3,307       4,275                   Rice                        249.1          19.6
Resource Nelance                      -1,155        -1,473      -1,663      -2,225                   Cotton Yarn                 147.7          11.6
Cotton Cloth                170.7          13.4
Oocorest PFymeots (net)                 -  145        -  169      -  177      -  18                   Masnfact-red Goods          339.3          26.7
Workero    - iemittac-es                    335           578       1,166       1,400                  Other Gonds                 292.1           23.0
Other Factor Psywoots (net)                  18            13          15         ...                    Total                   1,271.0          100.0
Net Tra-f ers                               ...           ...         ...         ...
Balooce on Gurrett Accot                -  947        -1,051      -  659      -1,090                   EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30  1978-
Poblic M&LT Loaos                                                                                                                              milion
Disbursements                             919           829        588          808                  Outstanding and Disbarsed               7,054.4
Repaymenot                             -  146       -  172      -  167       -  390                  Undisbursed                              2,040.4
Net Disbohrsmects                           773           657         521         418                  Oxtotandiog Including LndisLursed    9,094.8
Capital Graots                              120           149         112         120                  DERT SERVICE RATIO, 1977/37/O 19.7T.
Transactiots with IMF                       136            41          41          75
Other Item./d                                84             6         315         127                  IBRD/ILA LENDING, JANUARY 31, 1979 (US$ nillion)
IEcrease it Reserves                    -  166            198     -  330          350                                                                  16tD         IDA
Groos Unnerves {yearned)                    636           438         768         418                 OGtstanding and Disborsed                       338.1        632.4
Net Reserves  year end)                     167        -   80         224          .                   Undi.stns        l gd                          102.1        278.0
Gototandiog Ieolosdiog Undtnhorsd             440.2        910.4
Fuel sod Related Materials
Imports                                  332           181         529          585
of whitch:  Petrol ea                    255           274        341          367
Eoporto                                    20            26          62          52
of which:  Petrole--
RATE OF EXChANGE
Thro-gh May 11, 1972            May 11, 1972 - Februarv 15, 1973         Since Fe.rbary 15, 1973
US$  =  Rn 4.7619                        US$      11.00                      US$  =  9.90
RN    =  U5$0.2100                       Rin       0.0909                    Rs   =  0.1010
/o Corront Tear estimate.
lb Eoternal poblit debt 0ly; primate debt in -egligihle.
/X Ratio of debt service to noporte of goods -nd non-factoe snrvite-.
id Inceldes errors and omissions acd short-tern borrowing.
In ExclodiRg -et use of IMF resoorces.
May 1979



- 26 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                     Undis-
Number     Year  Borrower           Purpose             Bank    TW   IDA  bursed
Seventy-two loans and credits fully disbursed /a        573.0        478.3
206       1970   Pakistan   Engineering Education         --           4.0      .50
213       1970   Pakistan   Power Distribution            --          23.0      .08
422       1973   Pakistan   Karachi Port III              --          18.0    1.6
961       1974   Pakistan   Industrial Investment        25.0          --      3.0
492       1974   Pakistan   Karachi Port IV               --          16.0    8.4
510       1974   Pakistan   Telecommunications III        --          36.0    1.9
1107      1975   SNGPL       Gas Pipeline IV             60.0          --    11.1
546       1975   Pakistan   Industrial Development
(NDFC)                    --          30.0    5.1
1208      1976   Pakistan   Power Transmission            --   50.0   --    31.8
620       1976   Pakistan   Seed                          --          23.0   20.8
1326      1976   PICIC       Industrial Development    25.0            --      6.4
630       1976   Pakistan   Lahore Water II               --          26.6   18.4
648       1976   Pakistan   Irrigation & Drainage         --          14.0   12.5
1366      1977   Pakistan   Livestock                     --   10.0   --    10.0
1372/684  1977   Pakistan   Railways                     35.0         25.0   46.5
678       1977   Pakistan   Education                     --          15.0   14.3
683       1977   Pakistan   Flood Rehabilitation          --          40.0    4.2
751       1977   Pakistan   Hill Farming                  --           3.0    2.7
754       1978   Pakistan   SCARP-VI                      --          70.0   70.0
755       1978   Pakistan   Hazara Forestry               --           1.7    1.7
771       1978   Pakistan   Tarbela II                                35.0   29.5
813       1978   Pakistan   Punjab Extension                          12.5   12.5
846       1978   Pakistan   Fauji Fertilizer                          55.0   51.3
867       1978   Pakistan   Toot Oil and Gas Dev./b                  (30.0) (30.0)
877       1979   Pakistan   Salinity Control &
Reclamation/b                        (60.0) (60.0)
Total                                              718.0  60.0 926.1
of which has been repaid                           353.2   0    17.5
Total now outstanding                              364.8  60.0 908.6
Amount sold                           23.6
of which has been repaid              22.3           1.3   --    --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                  363.5        908.6
Total undisbursed                                   55.4  41.8 267.1  364.3
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b   Not yet effective and not included in totals.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor               Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1958    Steel Corp. of
Pakistan Ltd.         Rolled Steel Products    0.63        -       0.63
1959    Adamjee Industries
Ltd.                  Textiles                   0.75      -       0.75
1962-   Gharibwal Cement
1965    Industries Ltd.        Cement                    5.25      0.42    5.67
1963-
1969-                         Development                 -        0.52    0.52
1975    PICIC                  Financing
1965    Crescent Jute
Products              Textiles                   1.84     0.11    1.95
1965    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products             2.31      0.84    3.15
1967    Pakistan Paper
1976    Corp. Ltd.            Paper                      5.38      2.02    7.40
1969    Dawood Hercules
Chemicals Ltd.        Fertilizers                1.00     2.92    3.92
1969    Karnaphuli Paper
-Mills Ltd.           Pulp and Paper             5.60     0.63    6.23
Total Gross Commitments                         22.76     7.46   30.22
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                    18.25      1.01   19.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                4.51     6.45   10.96
Undisbursed



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage -- the construction of
the closure section of the dam -- to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the main
embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment began
on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encountered in
the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels necessitated
the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and outlet structure.
Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin and Tarbela Develop-
ment Funds whereby special contributions were made by a number of parties,
including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of repairs and additional
remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further damage in August 1975
and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been repaired and operated
satisfactorily during the 1977/78 irrigation season. Serious erosion in the
plunge pool below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional
protection works. A first phase of these was successfully completed during
the 1977/78 construction season and further works are in progress. Since 1975
irrigation requirements have generally been met. Power generation by the first
four units began in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The Tenth Railway Project is proceeding satisfactorily except for
procurement of the telecommunication and signaling component. The revised
estimates for 1977/78 indicate a continued financial recovery as a result
of past rate and fare increases. However, the level and rate of growth of
freight traffic remained below the appraisal forecasts. Budget estimates
for 1978/79 indicate improved financial performance, but only slight improve-
ments in freight traffic levels or operating efficiency. PR's performance
of covenants is generally satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 206       Engineering Education:  US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1970; Effective Date: July 14, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Credit provides US$4.0 million to finance the relocation of
the NED University of Engineering and Technology, Karachi (formerly NED
Engineering College) and technical assistance for the upgrading of University
staff. H1ost of the new physical facilities are now in use. In response to
a new staff development plan prepared by the Government, the Association
has granted a final extension of the Closing Date (until December 31, 1979)
to allow for completion of equipment procurement and an ongoing fellow pro-
gram for teaching staff.
Credit No. 213       Power Transmission and Distribution:  US$23.0 Million
Credit of August 13, 1970; Effective Date: December 11,
1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project is now completed and final disbursements have been
made.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Construction work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently about
15 months behind schedule. Quay piling was substantially completed in June
1978 and shed construction is now scheduled for completion by September 1979.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until late 1979 - about
18 months behind schedule. Most of Credit 422 has been disbursed. Construc-
tion of the oil berth has been completed. Bids from prequalified contractors
for channel dredging works and dredger procurement have been evaluated and
contracts awarded by KPT. Disbursements total about US$7.6 million (48%) from
Credit 492. Proposed revisions to the port tariff structure and to the KPT Act
are expected to be presented to GOP shortly for ratification. In the meantime,
a detailed review for rationalization of tariffs is in hand. Cargo handling
and other mechanical equipment has been contracted out for urgent repairs and
new equipment is being delivered. Ship waiting time off the port has increased
due to greater demand for berths by ships carrying priority imports. It is
understood that GOP intends to request an extension to the closing date of
Credit No. 422, probably to December 31, 1980.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 961          Industrial Investment:  US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: April 3, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Loan was made to the Government and is administered by PICIC.
It has been fully committed and disbursements amounted to US$22 million on
March 31, 1979. The Closing Date has been extended by one year to June 30,
1979, to accommodate three subprojects. PICIC expects to complete the
disbursements by that date.
Loan No. 1326         Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan has been fully committed and as March 31, 1979, disburse-
ments amounted to US$18.6 million. PICIC remains a capable institution, but
its operations and collections have been adversely affected by general economic
and political difficulties. Its prospects will depend largely on developments
in the textile sector, which accounts for a large portion of its portfolio.
Credit No. 510        Third Telecommunications:  US$36.0 Million Credit of
September 12, 1974; Effective Date: October 25, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project covered by this Credit is proceeding reasonably satis-
factorily, but is about 12 months behind schedule. Procurement action for
all the main equipment items has been substantially completed, installation of
plant and equipment is making good progress, and about 70% of the additional
subscribers' lines are in service. As part of the project, T&T was to have
been reorganized so as to function more effectively along commercial lines
and to have been given a greater degree of autonomy. This reorganization,
important to improving the efficiency of operation of the sector, was delayed
but has now been initiated. The Closing Date has been extended by one year
to December 31, 1979 to permit the project to be completed.
Credit No. 546        National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The Credit has been fully committed and US$24.9 million had been
disbursed as of March 31, 1979. It is possible that postponement of the closing
date may be required on account of one subproject. Although NDFC is currently
a profitable institution, the orientation of its activities has been toward
commercial banking and its development impact would be improved if it redirected
its efforts toward analyzing and helping to resolve sector problems in the
public industrial sector. Its rapid expansion has also placed strain upon its
limited manpower resources and newly established systems.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Project activities are generally on schedule. A re-estimate of
final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution sys-
tems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expendi-
tures of about US$10.8 million. The project description will be amended to
allow the Borrower to use about $2.3 of these savings towards a larger pipe-
line between Meyal and Dhulian and dehydration facilities for handling
additional gas from the Meyal field.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Equipment contracts have been awarded for the seed processing plants
of the Punjab and Sind Seed Corporations. Related contracts for civil works
have been awarded in the Punjab, while bids are under evaluation in Sind and
an award is expected shortly. The first processed seed from the project
should be available early in 1980. Development of the Corporations' seed
farms is proceeding ahead of schedule. A registered growers scheme has been
initiated in the Punjab and will be started in the Sind this year. Pilot -
projects for vegetables and potatoes in Baluchistan and NWFP and for potatoes
in the Punjab have started and, especially for vegetables, the pace of imple-
mentation has been good. Progress of the seed certification agency and the
national seed registration agency has been slower; GOP has recently nominated
directors for these agencies. IDA has expressed concern with the inadequate
quality of pre-basic seed being supplied to the Corporation by the research
stations.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The detailed design of the project is now nearing completion, but
this has been delayed and consequently the construction has also been delayed
and is about 18 months behind schedule. Due to this delay and on the basis
of final design, the project cost is estimated to increase by about 24%. The
engineering consulting service financed by UNDP is being strengthened and
extended to cover the prolonged project construction. The technical assistance
program provided by ODM (UK) for engineering and financial management, leak
detection and training has been reorganized to better meet the needs of the
project.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date:  April 30, 19-56;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Physical construction of the 336-mile transmission line between
Faisalabad (formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated
equipment has started with completion scheduled for December 1980. Virtuallv
all bidding documents for equipment and materials have been issued and awards
made on the major items.  Due to lower-than-expected prices, savings estimated
at about $14 million are expected on this loan.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Developmeut
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about ten months behind schedule due to delays
of about six months in appointing consultants and of a further four months
as a result of political disturbances in 1977. Tenders for the supply of a
major part of the construction equipment were invited in May 1978, and bid
openings took place in September 1978. However, some of the bids were not
responsive and have had to be re-tendered. Evaluation is in progress for the
second tendering. The Water and Power Development Authority is completing
construction of housing and offices for the construction colony. Preparations
are being made for construction to start in June 1979. Agricultural extension
activity has begun and program staff are being mobilized. Aerial surveys have
been completed and field work for the Landsat Imagery component is currently
in hand. The National Bank of Pakistan plans to provide credit to farmers for
land leveling in 1979; a branch office of the Bank has been opened in the
project area.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides facilities for: (a) general teacher training
and an experiment on adult functional literacy program and related studies; and
(b) agricultural education to assist in developing higher and middle level
agricultural manpower, farmer training and related studies. Project implemen-
tation is about five months behind schedule because of: (a) earlier delays by
the Government in confirming the appointment of consultant architects in the
Province of Sind; (b) delays in contracting technical assistance for the
project; and (c) disputes over ownership of project sites. The Government has
now signed all technical assistance contracts; solved all but one of the site
problems; and the project is making reasonable progress.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project implementation continues to be much slower than anticipated
with delays in the appointment of consultants and the formation of Village
Livestock Associations (VLA). Weak and frequent changes in management of the
Punjab Livestock Board (PLB) are a key constraint. Proposed investments in
the abattoir now appear unjustified, while major problems are being encountered
at the Lahore milk plant. The future of the project is being reviewed with
the Government.
Credit No. 683       Flood Damage Restoration:  US$40 Million Credit of
March 8, 1977; Effective Date: April 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The December 31, 1978, Closing Date for this Credit has been met
and the entire US$40 million utilized. All of the civil works restoration
work for the project has been completed and orders placed for the equipment,
materials and assemblies. Credit disbursements are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1979.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming:  US$3.0 Million Credit of December 1,
1977; Effective Date: March 7, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
This project is proceeding satisfactorily. The aerial survey has
been carried out; demonstration farms have been established; and the pilot
vegetable and apple schemes, forestry and livestock activities are operating
closely to the time schedule envisaged.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about nine months behind schedule due to delays in
the appointment of consultants.
Credit No. 775       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Progress has been made in land acquisition, building construction,
local staff appointments and recruitment of consultants for the industrial
feasibility study. There have, however, been delays in recruitment of
consultants for project inventory and silvicultural work. Overall, the
project is several months behind schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
This Credit became effective on December 19, 1978. Engineering, site
preparation and procurement are in progress.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Credit has become effective and implementation is under way.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10.0 Million Credit of April 18, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
March 1978 - November 1978
(b) Agency which has prepared the project:
GOSind Department of Agriculture, with the
assistance of Bank staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
first Bank Mission to consider the project:
December 1977, March 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 19, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 12, 1979
Section II:   Special Conditions
(1) GOSind would ensure that the appointment of staff required
under the project would be carried out according to a
program and timetable satisfactory to the Association
(paragraph 47);
(2) The following are additional conditions of credit effective-
ness: (a) the Director General (Extension) has been
appointed (paragraph 45); (b) agricultural extension staff
have been relieved of all duties that do not directly per-
tain to the dissemination of farming advice (paragraph 45)
and (c) the Project Review Committee has been established
(paragraph 57).






IBRD 14187R
RU  S S. r       ,his T ap has beetr prred by the
5DEM REP 4  -Xth.Cttb  l; . hC/N{Wfrr
t;HNSsANZ v; \ CHIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                        the tt,tertiete stwhe raderstf:c
OI R                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The d-o=natons useded the
I5ANy -N        '                                                                                                                                                                                                                            b-udat- sho.n o- th,s asp
IRAN    t  l-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~PAKI STAN                                                                                                                                                                         do n-t-nply, - the pa of the
tI_R , _ . J res                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   World Bank at it affies, any
PAM5-                                                                                                                                                                                                                             judg-en -n th. is, statu of
'ti                    .WJ -SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT                                                                                                                                -oteptanef-hb-d
hutL,  >   :, {       t      I N D I A
a 0TOtf 4       S   :'       SO    -
\   /    .JACOBABAD    \\                                                                                                      j J         ' 
/.0 C   AN                                                                                                                                      ., H                                  N
!  44S'              t    +                    ~~~~~PROJECT DISTRICTS                                          1 .-;g                             '(           SAGRO-CLIMATIC ZONES OF THE SIND
[ rf4  5  t| KHAR                PUR      NAg,lc.1wl J-wt sy                                                                                                                                            N.,th-  R- Z...
y *             Mom ReC                                                                                                                                             e iS Stermeot Zone
;    DA  :_   -   e.v-i cotda s                   e                             ~ D,st,iXi              / V)    kt-ed.e Zwne   u
'Z.                                                                          -    -----     Ri-E _  _
KAPROJECTHDISTRI-CT                                                                                                                  AA                              OT
THARPAOKAR~~~~~~~~~~~~~,     
K HA         PRs                                   giil.tq   riigIttlt
THATATtuAro   nvettrc                                                                                                                        .NNotenRieZo
A~SHA'I-$).         '~       0      Mat Research  LatoS    1                                                                                      "            - Nrter   oto  -herZot
N  A                                                    Project Dittn~~~~~~~~~~~~intt M                                                   -V                                       -  ln2rmdtat5  Zon
I  "  'N'"~~~~   ~ ~     ,~~  i~~ i\    Full lnuuttrnent Ditrtiota  /   \                                                                       Southern Cotton - Wheat Zone~~~~~~~~~~APRI 197



