Document of
The World Bank                                        Y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.2387a-PAK
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
May 7, 1979
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1     =      Rs 9.9
Rs 1     =      US$0.101
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                             Metric Units
1 foot (ft)                      =      30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                      =      0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                      =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                      =      0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)            =      259 ha
1 pound (lb)                     =      0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)              =      1,016 kg (1.016 metric tons)
Pakistani Units              English Units                 Metric Units
1 maund          =    82.3 lb (.0367 lg. ton)    =  37.39 kg (0.0373 m tons)
26.8 mds         =    2,205 lbs                     =  1.0 m ton
27.2 mds         =    1.0 lg ton (2,240 lbs)        =  1,016 kg
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARF       -    Adaptive Research Farm
GOP       -    Government of Pakistan
GOSind    -    Government of Sind
ARI       -    Agricultural Research Institute
RRI       -    Rice Research Institute
SASO      -    Sind Agricultural Supply Organization
T&V       -    Training and Visits  System  of Agricultural Extension
FREQUENTLY USED ABBREVIATIONS FOR OFFICERS
ADA       -    Assistant Director of Agriculture
AHO       -    Assistant Horticultural Officer
AO        -    Agricultural Officer
APPO      -    Assistant Plant Protection Officer
DA        -    Director of Agriculture
DDA       -    Deputy Director of Agriculture
DG        -    Director General (of Agriculture)
FA        -    Field Assistant
HO        -    Horticulture Officer
PPO       -    Plant Protection Officer
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
SSMS      -    Senior Subject Matter Specialist
STO       -    Senior Training Officer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
beldars   -    skilled manual workers who assist Field Assistants
kharif    -    season from May to October
rabi      -    season from October to May
taluka    -    lowest administrative unit in the Sind
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  * * * *.       .......................... .......** *   1
II.    THE PROJECT AREA ......... .. . . .  ..................................... .  3
General  ............................* * * * * * *...               ..      3
Agricultural Production and Yields  .............             ...           3
Population and Land Ownership  .....              ....................      4
Land Holding and Operation Pattern                 ....................     4
Irrigation and Drainage  ......... . .  .............................. .    5
The Farming Scene ...              . .. . ................................. .  6
Administration and Infrastructure                 .....................     8
Agro-Industries  .......................................                    8
Communications         .........................................            9
Agricultural Administration and Infrastructure  ........                    9
Agricultural Extension and Research  ...............            ......      9
Agricultural Education and Staff Training  ....... ......    12
Agricultural Inputs  .         .       ................... ........... ..   12
Agricultural Credit  ... .            ................................    14
Storage  ................................. **.............    14
Project Preparation  ..* ................................    15
III.      THE PROJECT ..............................................    15
A.    Project Objectives  ...... .........................    15
B.    Project Features  . . .................... . ..... .*...    16
The Five-District Component  .....              .................    17
Staff Pattern            ...............................    17
Staff Functions                      ....     ...........    17
Training and Research Staff                ................    18
Additional  Staff Requirements  ...............               18
Transport ..........................................    19
Staff Housing and Service Buildings  .........    19
The Seven-District Component  ..........................    20
This report is based on the findings of a Bank Appraisal Mission
which visited Pakistan in November 1978 and was comprised of Messrs. A Seager
and E.D. Hunting (IDA), and Mr. A.R. Graham (Consultant); Mr. M. Artaza (IDA)
also accompanied the mission and contributed to the report.



- ii -
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
The Support Organizations Component ........ .. ..........   20
Implementation Schedule ......... . .. . .  .............................   23
Cost Estimate . ....... .... ....................... * ......   24
Financing ....... ............................. ..............   26
Procurement ............................................   26
Disbursements ......... ... . ... ..........................   27
Accounts and Audits . ......       ........... .... ..............   27
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES .........   27
Extension Management and Operation            ....................   27
The Execution of the Building Program            .................   29
Vehicles and Equipment ....................... ..........   29
Monitoring and Evaluation           ............................   29
Technical Assistance ....................................   30
Coordination With Other Projects            ......................   31
Project Coordination ......... .. . .. ............................. .   31
Project Completion       ................. ...................   32
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   32
Farm Benefits .............................................   32
Financial Impact ...        ...................................   33
Economic Impact .......... .......................... ...........   33
Social Benefits ......................... ...........            34
Project Risks ..........       ...............................   34
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......... ......   34
TABLES
2.1 Total Cropped Area and Percent Under Major Crops
2.2 Yields for Major Crops in Sind
3.1 Present and Proposed District Staffing Pattern - Five Districts
3.2 Present and Proposed District Staffing Pattern - Seven Districts
3.3 Present and Future Staff Numbers
3.4 Staffing Pattern of Adaptive Research Farms
3.5 Designation and Time of Appointment of Additional Staff
3.6 Transport Vehicle Requirements
3.7 Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
5.1 Recommended Package of Practices
5.2 Estimated Rates of Adoption of Improved Practices - Five Districts
5.3 Estimated Rates of Adoption of Improved Practices - Seven Districts
5.4 Expected Average Yields of Major Crops



- iii. -
Tables of Contents (cont'd)
FIGURES
2.1 Present Organization Chart of the Department of Agriculture
(Chart No. 19942)
3.1 Proposed Organization Chart of the Department of Agriculture
(Chart No. 19943)
3.2 Implementation Schedule (Chart No. 20328)
4.1 Organization Chart of the Communications and Works Department
(Chart No. 19950)
ANNEXES
3.1   The Building Program
3.2   Pest Scouting
3.3   Cost Estimates
4.1   Technical Assistance
Appendix 1;Terms of Reference for Consultants
Attached, related documents
1.   Agricultural Extension - the Training and Visits System
by Daniel Benor and James Q. Harrison, World Bank, May 1977.
2.   Operational Manual for the Agricultural Extension Service.
3.   A System of Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension
Projects, World Bank Staff Working Paper 272.
4.   Guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension
Projects in Pakistan.
5.   Pesticide Spray Application Equipment, with special reference
to cotton.
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project
(Preparation Report submitted by GOSind)
MAP
IBRD   14187






PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.01      Agriculture remains the mainstay of Pakistan's economy.  It
accounts for roughly one-third of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force
and, directly or indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of Pakistan's exports
(principally cotton and rice). The irrigated area accounts for about 90% of
farm output. The complex irrigation system based on the Indus and its tri-
butaries covers an area of about 33.5 M ac and constitutes the largest system
in one river basin in the world. The rainfed areas lie largely in the north
and northwest, being concentrated in regions where rainfall averages more
than 400 mm per year.
1.02      Agricultural growth in Pakistan during the 1960s averaged almost
6% per year due mainly to the introduction of high yielding varieties of rice
and wheat, increased use of fertilizer and the rapid spread of private tube-
wells. Since the early 1970s, however, the rate of growth has been disappoint-
ing and has failed to keep pace with population growth. While certain minor
crops have performed well, value added in the major crops was only 8% higher
in 1976/77 than in 1971/72 and only 5% up on the exceptionally good year of
1969/70. This disappointing growth can in part be attributed to a series
of unfavorable and disturbed years and to delays in the availability of
Tarbela water. However, it is clear that there are also more fundamental
factors which have restricted growth. Yields of the new varieties are far
below those achieved under comparable conditions in other countries. Indeed,
although average yields of wheat and rice have risen through the introduction
of HYVs, the yields of these same HYVs are lower than those achieved in the
late 1960s. It would seem that this is due, at least partly, to poor cul-
tural practices. Although the setback to wheat production in 1977/78 was
mostly in the Punjab, the susceptibility of the new varieties to rust reflects
unfavorably on Pakistan's plant breeding programs. Cotton has also faced a
series of setbacks, the most recent being 1978/79 when heavy rains and asso-
ciated pest attacks cut production to well below the levels achieved in the
early 1970s.
1.03      Pakistan's ability to sustain faster growth in agricultural produc-
tion will therefore depend not only on programs to increase the availability
of water and other inputs but, more fundamentally, on establishing ways in
which the available resources can be used more efficiently. Programs to in-
crease the availability of water, fertilizer, insecticides and certified seed
will continue to be important, but past experience has shown that increased
availability is not enough to ensure their satisfactory use. Greater priority
must, in particular, be given to:
(a) improving the efficiency of institutions involved in exten-
sion services, supplying farm inputs especially pesticides
and water to farmers and, where appropriate, mobilizing
private initiative to complement public sector activities;
and



- 2 -
(b) developing new policies and programs that have a direct
impact on removing constraints at the farm level.
1.04      To ensure the success of farm level programs, inputs must be made
available in adequate quantities and at the right time. Farmgate prices
must be maintained at levels which encourage the use of inputs. The recent
increase in procurement prices and reductions in the controlled price of
fertilizers have produced favorable price relationships between inputs and
outputs, and improved the producers' price incentives. Conditions now favor
programs for increasing production, although the wheat issue price, which is
below the procurement price, and the large subsidies on fertilizers impose
serious burdens on the national budget. However, there is still room for
major improvements in the water delivery system, in general land and water
management and in the standard of farming practices. It now seems certain
that the losses in the watercourses are much higher than originally assumed
and that, in part, this explains why cropped areas have failed to respond at
the expected rate as supplies of water increased.
1.05      Over 40% of the farmers in Pakistan have less than 7.5 ac, but they
account for only 12% of the total farm area. In the past, they have been
neglected and the major benefits from increased inputs and improved technol-
ogies have gone to the larger farmers. Research and extension needs to be
geared to generating and spreading technologies appropriate to the smaller
farmers, and special measures may be necessary to ensure that they benefit
from future programs.
1.06      The need for broadening agricultural strategies to include farm level
and related programs was identified and discussed in detail in a Special Agri-
cultural Sector Review, distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1976. 1/
Since then, evolving out of the Review, a number of projects have been under-
taken, and others are under active consideration. They include: the Seeds
Project and the Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project (both were approved by the Executive Directors in FY76); the Punjab
Livestock Project and Third Education Project (which includes an important
component for agricultural training) (approved in FY77); the SCARP VI Project
and the Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development Project (approved in
FY78); and the SCARP Mardan Project (approved in FY79). The irrigation and
drainage projects in particular have been so designed that farm level
improvements are included on a significant scale in an effort to utilize
more fully the potential created by major capital investments.
1.07      Following the Sector Review, and to assist the Government further
in carrying out the new strategy for agricultural development, the Bank
identified a project portfolio which includes projects in the fields of agri-
cultural extension and research; agricultural credit; irrigation, drainage
and salinity control; foodgrain storage; and the integrated development of
cotton, rice, sugar, livestock and forestry production. Project preparation
1/   Report No. 922a-PAK.



-3-
is being financed in a number of ways including provision of funds in ongoing
projects (e.g. SCARP VI). The UNDP is financing the preparation of a Revised
Action Plan for the Indus Basin (with the Bank as Executing Agency) and has
indicated its willingness to support the strengthening of project preparation
capacity in the Federal Ministry and Provincial Departments of Agriculture.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01      The project area comprises all the rural  areas of the Province of
Sind that are irrigable. The Sind is, after the Punjab, agriculturally the
second most productive Province. It is also the second most populous, with
almost 17 m people in 1978 (22% of the national total), 60% of whom live in
the rural areas. The land area is almost 35 M ac of which 13.5 M ac are
potentially cultivable and about 8 M ac (59% of the cultivable area) are
irrigated each year. Of these, about 1.3 M ac are double cropped. Annual
rainfall varies from a low of about 2 to 3 inches in the north to more than
6.5 inches in the southern areas. Yearly variations are wide but most of the
rainfall occurs between June and September. There are about 330 rainless,
sunny days. The climate is suitable for year-round cropping. Soils are
diverse with a predominance of silt and sandy loams. In the Indus Plain,
where over 95% of the arable lands lie, topography is flat, making it pos-
sible to irrigate about 88% of the cultivable lands from gravity canals,
without pumping.
Agricultural Production and Yields
2.02      There are two principal cropping seasons:  kharif, from mid-April
to mid-October, and rabi, from mid-October to mid-April. The most important
crops in kharif are cotton, rice, sugarcane and millets; in rabi, wheat, gram
and oilseeds. There are only about 30,000 ac, of bananas which grow only in
this Province and they are being developed into an export crop for the Persian
Gulf countries and are therefore of increasing economic importance. The
major crops, their area, average yield and production, as well as average
yields regularly obtained by the better farmers, are as follows:
Average Yields
% of Total                                of the
Area     Cropped Area    Production   Yield   Better Farmers
(M ac)                        (tons)   (tons/ac)   (tons/ac)
Wheat               2.4           25              1.4         0.6           1.0
Seed Cotton         1.5           16              0.5         0.3           0.7
Rice (Paddy)        2.4           25              2.3         1.0           1.5
Sugarcane           0.3            3              4.1        13.5          25.7
Source:  Agricultural Statistics of Pakistan, 1977, and Crop Acreage Statistics
of Sind, 1977.
Further details are in Table 2.1 and 2.2.



-4-
Population and Land Ownership
2.03      In 1972 (the latest year of record), about 1.2 M families, consist-
ing on the average of 6 to 7 persons each, lived in the rural areas. These
included the families of farm operators (about 60%), landless farm wage
earners (15%), and non-farmers such as tradesmen, craftsmen, clerks, pro-
fessionals and others (25%).
2.04      The farm land in 1972 was registered in the names of about 350,000
owners, an average of about 23 ac per holding, with the following distribution:
Owner                 % of Holdings               % of- Area
Size Class               in Size Class            in Size Class
(ac)                       (%)                       (%)
5 or less                     33                        3
5 - 12.5                      30                       10
12.5 - 25                      17                       13
Over 25                        20                       74
100                      100
Land Holding and Operation Pattern
2.05      About 63% of the 748,000 farms in the Province, comprising about
51% of the cultivated area are operated by tenant farmers. The rest are
owner-operated; 24% entirely owned and 13% partially owned and partially
tenanted. The size of most tenancies is 6 ac to 8 ac, the normal range for a
farmer with one pair of bullocks. The average farm size is about 12 ac. The
pattern of farm operations is as follows:
Operating            Tenant Operated        Owner Operated             Total
Size Class           Number      Area       Number      Area       Number      Area
(ac)                (%)        (%)         (%)        (%)         (%)        (%)
5.0 or less           18           5        21           3         19          .4
5.0 to 12.5          59          30         39          19         52          35
12.5 to 25.0          20          33         25          26         22          29
Over 25.0               3         32         15          52          7          32
100        100        100         100        100         100
(63%)       (51%)     (37%)       (49%)
2.06      The tenant's share of the crop is one-half on most farms (about 90%)
but as much as two-thirds on some.  The tenant, for his share of the crop, pro-
vides production labor, draft power or tractor operation (or rental) costs and
seed, pays half the cost of fertilizers, and contributes labor for the upkeep
of the watercourses. The owner pays the land tax, water charges, half the
fertilizer costs and provides housing. He frequently furnishes seasonal and
medium-term financing and markets the tenant's cash crops. By recovering
tenant debts immediately after harvest when commodity values are low, and by



- 5 -
being in a position to sell later, the owner is able to obtain substantial
market benefits. Many tenants remain heavily indebted to the landowers.
2.07      Despite the large proportion of farms which are tenanted, the
landowner-tenant relationship remains a key factor in the introduction of
change in farm practices and new technology. Motivating the large landowners
was instrumental in the rapid spread of the green revolution in foodgrains
in the 1960s. Nevertheless, with institutional credit recently being made
available for small landowners, the decision-making role of small farmers,
if not the tenants, is expected to be enhanced. Between 1958 and 1972, GOP
enacted legislation which formalized the main aspects of the owner-tenant
relationship and protected some tenant rights. While land reforms enacted
during this period achieved only limited land redistribution, they helped to
stem further concentration of ownership.
Irrigation and Drainage
2.08      Rainfed agriculture in the Province is practically impossible on
the Indus Plains; the small area of crops grown without some form of irriga-
tion are in the hilly Kohistan area to the west of the plains, where it is
possible to augment the small rainfall with runoff from the hills. Production
from this source is insignificant in most years. Agriculture and irrigation
have been synonymous in the Province since about 2500 B.C.
2.09      Canal Irrigation.  Between 1932 and 1963, three barrages were built
on the Indus River in the Sind. The controlled diversions from the barrages
replaced the uncontrolled, ancient inundation system. The following figures
show the commanded areas, the nature of the irrigation in each command and
the year the barrages began diverting water:
Year of                    Kharif      Rabi and
Completion      CCA /a       Only        Kharif
----------(in M Ac)-----------
Guddu Barrage                    1962          2.8          2.8
Sukkur Barrage                   1932
Left Bank                                 5.5           -           5.5
Right Bank                                2.0          1.5          0.5
Kotri Barrage                     1955
Left Bank                                 2.2          1.7          0.5
Right Bank                                0.7           -           0.7
Total CCA                                13.2          6.0          7.2
Of which cultivated
(including current                        9.1          3.6          5.5
fallow)
/a   Cultivable Commanded Area.



- 6 -
The Province augments its run-of-the river rabi supplies from its share of the
Tarbela dam, about 700 mi to the north. A storage lake, (Lake Khinjero) about
70 mi from Karachi, balances water supplies for about 500,000 ac of the Kotri
Barrage Command.
2.10      Tubewell Irrigation.  The groundwater is fresh, fit for irrigation
only in a relatively narrow strip of land along the Indus River and, there-
fore, the potential for tubewell irrigation is much less than in the Punjab.
The present number of privately owned tubewells and pumps from the river is
about 4,600. Nearly 90% are in the districts adjoining the Indus River
(Hyderabad, Nawabshah, Sukkur, Dadu). New tubewells are being sunk almost
exclusively in the riverain tracks, inside the flood protection bunds.
2.11      Drainage.  The effects of intensive irrigation without correspond-
ing drainage works became manifest in the Sind even before the Sukkur Barrage
began to function: since 1932, however, the water table has been rising
rapidly and is by now impeding agricultural production. Surface drains were
first installed in the southern areas in 1931; subsurface drainage started in
1965, with the IDA-assisted SCARP Khairpur Project (Cr. 22-PAK) on about
400,000 ac, followed by the currently ongoing Khairpur Tile Drainage Project
(Cr. 648-PAK) on 36,000 ac. GOP, out of its own resources, has financed the
North Rohri Tubewell Project and is currently implementing the South Rohri
Tubewell Project (combined area of 1 M ac). The Federal Republic of Germany
may assist with the Ghotki Fresh Groundwater Project (317,000 ac) which is
shortly to be implemented. The North Rohri, South Rohri and Ghotki projects
would lower the water table by means of tubewells as well as making conjunctive
use of ground and surface water for irrigation. GOP has also implemented a
surface drainage project in the Larkana area and is in the process of extend-
ing this network. Much subsurface drainage remains to be done in areas where
the groundwater is saline. The disposal of saline effluent is the major
problem and is likely to remain so until an outfall drain is constructed that
would collect and carry all effluent from the entire Province, as well as
from the southern Punjab, into the sea.
The Farming Scene
2.12      Agro-climatic zones.  The pattern of agriculture in the Sind is
determined by a combination of climate and irrigation. The following five
zones can be distinguished:
(a)  The southern maritime rice zone is characterized by a mild
climate. Frosts are almost absent; in the summer the
maximum temperature rises only to around 102 0F.  Rice and
sugarcane predominate. The yield of sugarcane here is the
highest in the country. Five of the Province's 12 sugar
mills are in this zone. Irrigation is seasonal in
the rice areas and perennial in the sugarcane areas.



(b) The southern wheat-cotton area is characterized by a farm-
ing calendar that demands ideally that cotton be planted
before the time when wheat is ready to be harvested. Con-
sequently, where double cropping is practised cotton tends
to be planted late and yields are lower than when planted
on a winter fallow. Planting wheat after cotton presents
no problem. Temperatures are somewhat more extreme; winter
frosts occur occassionally and there is some wind to alle-
viate summer temperatures which are between 105-107 F.
Surface irrigation is mostly perennial. The South Rohri
Tubewell Project extends into this zone. There are two
sugarmills in the area.
(c) The central transitional zone. In this zone frost occurs
on the average in one winter out of two; summer temperatures
are frequently around 110 0F. The zone is in a wind shadow
area. It receives its irrigation water from the Sukkur
Barrage perennial canals, includes most of the Right Bank
perennially irrigated area and the fresh-water tubewells
of the North and South Rohri project areas (para 2.09). The
principal crops are cotton and wheat; sugarcane is of in-
creasing importance on account of two recently established
sugar mills. Brassica oilseeds are also important. Plant-
ing of cotton after wheat causes a sharp labour peak when
threshing wheat and preparing the wheat stubbles for cotton
have to be done simultaneously.
(d) The northern wheat-cotton zone. This zone has an extreme
climate; frosts in the winter are common and summer temper-
atures frequently reach 118 F; there is almost no air move-
ment in the kharif. The zone is perennially irrigated either
by canals (Sukkur Left Bank Command) or, in the rabi, by
tubewells (Guddu Left Bank). The heat prevents cotton from
flowering till September. Therefore, picking goes on well
into December, which is past the recommended time for
planting wheat and, consequently, wheat yields (if planted
after cotton) are low. The area has one sugar mill. One
of Pakistan's two major date palm areas is in this zone.
(e) The northern rice area. The climate is extreme; summer
temperatures rise to 120 F and, as in the zones (c) and
(d), are not tempered by wind. Frost occurs almost every
winter. Irrigation is provided primarily in the kharif
(summer) season, even where canal water is also nominally
available in the rabi season. The main crop is rice,
followed in the rabi by wheat, pulses or oilseeds grown on
residual moisture, without irrigation. The groundwater is
mostly saline. There are two sugar mills, both in rice
areas; hence supplying them with adequate quantities of
cane is a problem yet to be solved.



-8-
2.13      Farm Power.  In the Sind, at present about 750,000 pairs of oxen
provide the main source of farm power. Use of tractors, frequently on part
and sometimes on all of the farm, is increasing. In 1972, there were only
about 3,300 agricultural tractors in the Province, but in 1978 an estimated
8,000 tractors worked in the Province. On the average 13 farmers use each
tractor. Farm power is adequate for present cultivation; for farmers to
achieve the simple yield increases anticipated under the proposed project
would not require an accompanying significant increase in farm power
availability.
2.14      The working animal of the Sind is the ox.  The Province is the
home of three well-known breeds: the Red Sindhi, the Thari and the Kankrej.
Buffaloes are almost never used for farm work and only rarely for haulage.
Administration and Infrastructure
2.15      Administrative Units.  The Province is divided into three admin-
istrative divisions of which two are rural; the third is the city of Karachi
and its suburbs. The divisions are headed by a Divisional Commissioner. Each
of the rural divisions consists of six districts. A Deputy Commissioner, who
is also the Revenue Collector, is in charge of each district. The districts
are subdivided into five or six talukas; the senior administrative officer in
the taluka is the mukhtiarkar. Two or three talukas are loosely united into a
subdivision, which is mostly a judiciary unit. A Sub-Divisional Magistrate,
who is a substantive Assistant Commissioner, is in charge; he supervises the
mukhtiarkars. Other Government departments, including the Department of Agri-
culture, are organized on a district basis; they do not have officers whose
responsibilities cover only a taluka or a subdivision.
2.16      Marketing.  The taluka headquarters are usually the major marketing
centers, both for farm produce and farm inputs. Market Committees under the
EADA (Economics and Marketing) (para 2.23) record and regulate activities in
the markets. Most of the products are handled by commission agents. Cotton
and sugarcane, however, are always purchased outright and taken for processing.
Agro-Industries
2.17      The major processing industries include the 12 sugar mills and a
large number of ginneries which are located at all taluka headquarters and
other major towns in the cotton areas. Present ginning capacity is well in
excess of demands placed on it and most ginneries, therefore, run for rela-
tively short periods. Roller gins of a 19th century design predominate.
There are also several saw gins, most of them installed about 30 years ago.
The vegetable oil expellers are mainly in the district headquarters towns,
although animal-powered pestle-and-mortar expellers are commonly used in the
villages. There are large modern flour mills in Hyderabad, Nawabshah, Sukkur
and Larkana; rice milling is well developed and a number of modern, efficient
husking mills, catering largely but not exclusively for the export trade,
have been built during the 1970s. Secondary processing industries are
spinning and weaving factories, principally in Hyderabad and Sukkur, and a



- 9 -
large plant in Hyderabad that manufactures vegetable shortening. Implement
and machinery fabrication, both for agriculture and industry, is widespread,
although the fabrication and use of threshing machines is, compared to the
Punjab, at an early stage of development.
Communications
2.18      Railway lines traverse the Province.  The main double-track broad-
gauge line is on the left bank of the Indus; a single-track line goes up on
the right bank.  A branch line goes east of Hyderabad and changes into a
meter-gauge system that serves the east and southeast of the province.  The
broad-gauge system has several branch and loop lines in the north and west
of the Province; the rail link to Baluchistan and the strategic line on the
right bank of the Indus to the North-West Frontier Province originate at a
major rail junction near Sukkur.
2.19      The road system is being developed.  The National Highway which
traverses the Province has been improved between Karachi and Hyderabad, and
plans are being considered for improving other stretches north of Hyderabad.
A major road leads to Baluchistan. The district feeder road system is being
rapidly developed to serve the increasing needs of the sugar mills.
Agricultural Administration and Infrastructure
2.20      Overall Organization.  The Sind Department of Agriculture is under
the control of the Secretary for Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries. The
Secretariat staff consists of an Additional Secretary, who assists the
Secretary. Three Deputy Secretaries handle routine matters; matters pertain-
ing to agriculture are dealt with by two of the Deputy Secretaries.
2.21      The field activities of the Department of Agriculture are organized
under four Directorates (Figure 2.1). Each is in charge of a Director of
Agriculture. There is a Director for:
(a) Agricultural Extension;
(b) the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) in Tando Jam;
(c) the Rice Research Institute (RRI) in Dokri; and
(d) Agricultural Engineering.
Agricultural Extension and Research
2.22      Agricultural Extension.  The Director of Agriculture (Extension)
controls extension activities through two Deputy Directors of Agriculture
(DDA), one in Hyderabad and one in Sukkur Division. At his headquarters, he
is assisted by specialist staff officers, a DDA (Administration) and a DDA
(Economics and Marketing).



- 10 -
2.23      The two Divisional DDAs supervise Extra Assistant Directors of
Agriculture (EADA) in each district, who are in charge of all agricultural
extension activities. Each Divisional DDA has specialist staff officers for
horticulture and plant protection. The district EADAs supervise about 200
Agricultural Officers (AO), who supervise about 700 Field Assistants (FAs).
Each EADA is assisted by an Assistant Plant Protection Officer (APPO) who acts
as a district subject matter specialist in plant protection matters. In each
district there is also an EADA (Economics and Marketing) who reports to the
DDA (E&M) at Headquarters.
2.24      A Field Assistant (FA) is expected to contact over 1,000 farmers.
Most FAs live on the farms of the larger landlords, to whom many eventually
become obligated to provide various services. Each FA is supported by one
or two trained laborers (beldars) who are recruited from the local farming
community and usually live on their family's farm or in the villages. The
beldar's duties involve practical teaching and demonstration work under the
supervision of the FAs. The FAs and the beldars are involved in the sale and
application of pesticides, mainly for cotton and orchards. The FAs spend
about two-thirds of their time in the cotton season (kharif) on pest control.
In rabi, they mainly work on orchards and, to a limited extent, on Brassica
oilseeds. This takes about one-third of their time. The FAs sell about
10-15% of the pesticides and 20-25% of the sprayers used in the Province,
and complete various statistical returns for the EADAs. The Department of
Agriculture also assigns up to 20% of the FAs in cotton growing areas to
ginneries during the rabi season to supervise the selection and ginning of
batches of seed cotton from fields that have produced a good crop. Therefore,
time available for advice to farmers on crop husbandry is limited and irregular.
2.25      Since the FAs are busy with other work, it is left to the AOs to
advise farmers on crop husbandry. The AOs, who are graduates in agriculture,
also work almost exclusively with the larger, more progressive farmers; the
small farmers may learn of some innovations from neighbors, from the radio or
from seeing the new techniques in demonstration plots on the large farmers'
land. Field days, which would make demonstrations an effective teaching
tool, are infrequent and poorly conducted.
2.26      Since May 1978, the Department of Agriculture has changed over its
method of operation to conform to the principles of the Training and Visits
(T&V) System, 1/ for which it received technical assistance from the Bank.
There are now clear job descriptions for all staff levels. Day-by-day work
schedules for FAs and AOs have been prepared and are being followed. How-
ever, the middle and lower levels of the service, especially the older
individuals, find it difficult not to count achievements as quantity of
pesticides sold and crop acreages sprayed. More importantly, the FAs and
the AOs are under some pressure from the larger farmers to maintain the
exclusive services which they used to render before the adoption of the T&V
System. This pressure extends even to the EADAs.
1/   See "Agricultural Extension:  The Training and Visits System" by
Daniel Banor and James Q. Harrison, World Bank, May 1977.



- 11 -
2.27      Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research is being conducted by
four organizations: the Agricultural Research Institute, the Rice Research
Institute; the Tando Jam Agricultural University; the Atomic Energy Research
Institute; and the Cotton Research Institute.
(a) The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI). The Institute
is located in Tando Jam and is headed by a Director. It
has 13 research sections which deal with all crops except
rice; plant protection; soil fertility investigations and
agricultural engineering investigations.
(b) The Rice Research Institute (RRI). The Institute is in Dokri
and is also headed by a Director. It was built up to its
present level only in 1977; it has departments for plant
breeding, agronomy, pathology, entomology, engineering, etc.
It also deals with the agronomy of the rabi crops that follow
rice under the different climatic and water supply conditions
of the Sind. There are close and fruitful contacts with the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) in the Philippines
at the Director and department head level and also a satis-
factory formalized exchange of information and flow of
technical assistance.
(c)  The Tando Jam Agricultural University.  The University's prin-
cipal function is agricultural education. Its Faculty heads
also engage in research work and conduct agro-economic invest-
igations as part of their students' graduate studies.
(d) The Atomic Energy Research Institute. This Institute is also
in Tando Jam. Its main function is agricultural research in
connection with nuclear physics.
(e) The Cotton Research Institute. The Institute, in Sakrand,
functions under the auspices of the Pakistan Central Cotton
Control Committee (PCCC) but, because of its location, it
deals exclusively with cotton-growing problems pertaining
to the Sind Province. The Institute is still being built
up; its most significant contribution to date has been its
operation of the Cotton Maximization Scheme (CMS). The CMS
operates in one taluka in Hyderabad and Nawabshah districts.
The scheme controls its own staff and maintains contacts
with the regular extension service only at the EADA and AO
level. The scheme is due to end in FY 1980.
2.28      The five research organizations come under four separate authori-
ties: ARI Tando Jam and RRI Dokri under the Secretary for Agriculture,
GOSind; the Tando Jam Agricultural University under the Secretary for Educa-
tion, GOSind; the Cotton Research Institute under the PCCC, a Federal body;



- 12 -
and the Atomic Research Institute under the Pakistan Atomic Energy Authority,
also a Federal organization. Apart from the first two, the interchange of
ideas and contacts are entirely informal at the Provincial level; the only
formal link is through the Pakistan Agricultural Research Council.
2.29      The Institutes are reasonably well equipped, but their effectiveness
suffers from a dearth of operating funds, insufficient adaptive field work and
inadequate linkage with the extension service. Their field stations are too
few for effective testing of research findings in all the various agro-
climatic zones of the Province; shortage of operating funds makes it necessary
to reduce the scope of the field stations' work drastically, frequently below
that required for efficient operation. The outstations maintain only minimal
contact with the extension service and, therefore, frequently it is the large
farmers themselves who initiate the final adaptive trials on their own fields
before a recommendation by a research station becomes available.
Agricultural Education and Staff Training
2.30      Field Assistants.  FAs are being trained at the Agricultural Train-
ing Institute (ATI), in Sakrand. The entrants are matriculates, i.e. they
have had ten years' schooling. The course takes two years, after which the
successful candidates receive a diploma. The diplomates must serve GOSind
for at least three years. The Institute is being strengthened under the IDA-
supported Third Education Project (Cr. 1056-PAK). After 1980, it will admit
about 80 students per annum; based on past experience, about 65 to 70 will
obtain their diploma, of whom about 55-60 will become available to the agri-
cultural extension service; the rest will join other organizations. About
half of the 60 or so FAs would be needed to replace losses due to retirement
and other causes. The Institute's capacity is determined by dormitory accom-
modation; teaching facilities are adequate to train a larger number.
2.31      Agricultural Officers (AOs) and Research Assistants (RAs).  The
AOs and RAs are graduates in Agriculture, mostly from the Agricultural Univer-
sity in Tando Jam. The University has faculties for Agriculture, Agricultural
Engineering, Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry. It graduates 100 BSc
students in a year, many of whom continue on to Masters or PhD degrees. Most
of the graduates are absorbed in GOSind's Departments of Agriculture or
Livestock.
Agricultural Inputs
2.32      Fertilizer.  The consumption of fertilizers has increased rapidly
since 1966, when the national average was about 7 lb of nutrients per ac of
irrigated land and about 6 lb in the Sind. In 1977/78, the figures were as
follows:



- 13 -
Pakistan       Sind      Punjab
(lb/ac)    (lb/ac)      (lb/ac)
N                  34           35           34
P205               10           11           10
K20                 0.4          0.4          0.4
The N:P ratio has narrowed over the years and, at present the ratio is pro-
bably just about right (3.5 to 1). Potash use is very low, especially in
relation to the relatively large areas of bananas and sugarcane in the
Province, both of which respond well to this nutrient.
2.33      The regulation of fertilizer supply is a federal (GOP) matter, and
is therefore reviewed here in a country-wide context. Since the commissioning
of the Multan fertilizer plant in December 1978 (partly supported by Bank loan
No. 988-PAK of 1974), Pakistan is at the present time almost self-sufficient
in nitrogen. Phosphate rock is imported and processed, mainly in Multan,
into nitrophos. However, since fertilizer consumption is increasing at an
annual rate of about 10%, both nitrogen and phosphates will continue to be
imported. The Sind gets most of its nitrogen from a urea plant located near
the northern border of the Province, in Daharki. Another large plant, also in
Sind in Mirpur Mathelo, is due to come on stream in 1980; a third, the Fauji
Fertilizer Company's (FFC) plant, partly financed by IDA (Cr. 846-PAK) and
located 30 mi to the north of the Provincial border is due to be in operation
in 1982. Therefore, after 1982, Pakistan may have a surplus of urea; the
surplus is estimated to last until about 1987, after which consumption will
again catch up with production. Although a diammonium phosphate (DAP) plant
in the North-West Frontier Province is due to start production in 1982 using
indigenous rock phosphate, Pakistan will still be short of phosphates and
will have to continue to import them either in the form of raw rock or pro-
cessed product. Potash too, will have to be imported in the foreseeable
future, most probably in increasingly large quantities; to date there are
no indications of commercially exploitable deposits.
2.34      Fertilizer marketing in the Province is at present done by the
operators of the Daharki plant, Exxon Chemical (Pakistan) Ltd., the National
Fertilizer Corporation (NFC) who are supplied by all the public-sector plants
in the country and the Sind Agricultural Supply Organization (SASO) which
handles only imported products. FFC will also market in the Sind from kharif
1979 onwards. All these agencies operate through a network of private dealers;
in addition, SASO also operate some sales points in the more remote areas
with their own staff. There are about 1,000 retail outlets in the Province.
Although the sales points tend to be concentrated in the market towns, this
is only a minor hardship to the farmers who have to visit them anyway to sell
their produce and purchase other supplies.



- 14 -
2.35      Pesticides.  Most pesticides are imported, usually on government
tenders or as part of government-to-government barter deals. Private sector
imports are limited and therefore little private incentive exists to develop
the market. Some 35 different proprietary brands of pesticides are on the
market, which tends to confuse the farmer and the extension worker about proper
application rates and methods. Marketing is now mostly in the private sector.
Only about 10% to 15% is being sold by the extension service. Prices are
controlled at highly subsidized levels.
2.36      Sprayers.  Sprayers are imported as well as locally manufactured.
The locally made machines are copies of imported models, but fabricated with-
out adequate quality control. Therefore, performance standards are not the
same as outwardly identical machines manufactured abroad. The ARI at Tando
Jam tests and approves machines based on the performance of sample machines
submitted.
2.37      Seeds.  Seed supplies on the market are variable and generally of
doubtful quality. Therefore farmers, whenever possible, tend to keep their
own planting material unless they wish to change varieties. The IDA-supported
Seeds Project (Cr. 620-PAK), which has set up the Sind Seeds Corporation as
the agency to organize and coordinate the production and marketing of cotton,
wheat and rice seed, will enter the market for the first time in 1980/81.
Its certified seeds are to be of internationally acceptable quality.
Agricultural Credit
2.38      Short and medium-term agricultural credit is provided by the Agri-
cultural Development Bank of Pakistan, a GOP agency, and by the five national-
ized commercial banks: the National Bank of Pakistan Ltd., Habib Bank Ltd.,
United Bank Ltd., Muslim Commercial Bank Ltd., and Allied Bank Ltd. The
commercial banks began agricultural lending in 1972 under the GOP sponsored
agriculture small loans scheme. Nevertheless, many farmers still either have
no access to credit at all or obtain it from non-institutional sources, such
as relatives or moneylenders. The Fifth Plan of 1978-83 provides for credit
expansion: the planned volume of agricultural credit is about Rs 3,360 M per
year, a 65% increase over the estimated 1977-78 level of credit disbursement
and a 91% increase over the 1976-77 level.
Storage
2.39      The rural areas of the Province are surplus producers of foodgrains.
Most of this surplus is being purchased by grain merchants. However, GOP
operates a procurement scheme under which they purchase wheat and paddy. The
wheat is subsequently sold in Government ration shops which are operated
normally only in large towns, the principal one in Sind being Karachi. Occa-
sionally, ration shops are also opened in Hyderabad. Locally procured wheat
is distributed along with imports, which in a normal year run at around 1 to
1.5 M tons but reached 2.3 M tons in 1978-79. The Food Department of GOSind
own and operate warehouses in many of the major surplus areas. Total storage
capacity owned by the Food Department is about 270,000 tons, supplemented



- 15 -
as the need arises by rented warehouses. Grain storage in Pakistan is at
present being studied with the assistance of the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA). According to a covenant agreed between IDA and
GOP in Credit 754-PAK under the SCARP VI project, GOP will submit a country-
wide storage plan to IDA by June 30, 1979.
Project Preparation
2.40      Production increases in the past have come largely from investment
in irrigation and from the introduction of HYVs. Less emphasis has been given
to cultural practices and the effective utilization by farmers of Government-
provided resources. Consequently, production is much lower than it should be.
An increase in production can be achieved at low cost by improving in the
organization of the agricultural extension service and the extension methods
it employs. A close link between extension services and an adaptive research
program is also vital because success in extension will quickly generate
demand for more sophisticated advice from research.
2.41      The need for improving agricultural extension has been apparent for
several years. The latest, and most telling arguments for extension projects,
were set out in the Bank Group's Pakistan Special Agricultural Sector Review
(para 1.06). In March 1978, GOSind decided to reorganize the working of its
entire agricultural extension staff on the lines of the Training and Visits
(T&V) System of Agricultural Extension. The change formally took place in May
1978 (para 2.26). At the same time, the Bank also assisted GOSind in prepar-
ing this proposed project for improving and strengthening agricultural exten-
sion and adaptive research in the entire Province.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The potential for highly productive farming, with yields and produc-
tion equal to any comparable area of the world, clearly exists in the Sind.
The objective of the project is to raise yields using available land, water,
and farm resources, by inducing farmers to improve their cultural and manage-
ment practices, such as land preparation, plant population, weeding, and insect
and disease control. By strengthening the agricultural extension service and
providing adaptive research facilities, the project would aim to close the
gap between the agricultural practices used by the relatively few innovative
farmers and the majority of traditional farmers, and achieve a massive transfer
of technology regarding already proven but simple improvements. The GOSind
agricultural extension service throughout the Province recently began operat-
ing largely according to the T&V methodology (para 2.26). The project would
enable an increase in the numbers of extension staff in direct contact with
farmers, separation of extension and non-extension activities, reorganization
and strengthening of the supervisory structure, and would ensure that the



- 16 -
staff are adequately equipped, mobile, housed and supplied with carefully
focussed and well-tested technical information. While the organizational
improvements, transport, and adaptive research facilities would be provided
throughout the 12 rural districts of Sind, GOSind resources over the five-year
implementation period would permit an increase in extension staff and provi-
sion of housing in only five of the districts (Hyderabad, Sanghar, Nawabshah,
Sukkur, and Larkana - Map 14187). GOSind intends eventually to increase the
staff and provide housing throughout the Province.
B. Project Features
3.02      The project consists of three closely related components:  full
investments to achieve optimal operating conditions in five districts of
the Province (the Five District Component); a lower investment level to
support operations, with existing staff, to a less than optimal extent in the
remaining seven districts (the Seven District Component); and technical
training and support services equally throughout the Province: (the Support
Organizations Component). The three project components would provide the
following:
(a) in five districts of the Province:
(i)  ratio of farmer to Field Assistant narrowed from 1,000
to 1 to 660 to 1;
(ii) an effective ratio of first and second line supervisors
to FAs; and
(iii) offices, transport and transport operating costs for
all staff;
(iv) housing for all FAs and for about 40% of the AOs.
(b) in the remaining seven districts:
(i) an effective ratio of first and second line supervisors
to FAs, similar to that in the five districts; and
(ii) transport and transport operating costs for all staff;
(c) for the entire Province, provide:
(i)  a cadre of Subject Matter Specialists to train and
technically support field staff;
(ii) four adaptive research farms, including soil testing
facilities, in four of the five major agro-climatic
zones of the Province; and



- 17 -
(iii)  consultancy and training assistance to enable quick
and efficient project implementation and to provide
expertise in fields not at present covered by the
Department of Agriculture (commercial-type soil
testing, farm planning and management).
3.03      In addition to the foregoing, there would be a pest scouting com-
ponent on a pilot scale in Nawabshah which is one of the main cotton-growing
districts of the Province.
The Five District Component
3.04      Staff Pattern.  The five districts were selected to represent the
major agro-climatic zones of the Province (para 2.12). These are the dis-
tricts of Hyderabad, Sanghar, Nawabshah, Sukkur and Larkana (Map 14187). The
reduction in the farmer to FA ratio from about 1,000 to 1 to about 660 would
require an increase from 375 FAs to 594, i.e., 219 new FA positions. Approxi-
mately one AO for six FAs, or a total of 99, representing an increase of eight,
would be provided. The AOs would be supervised by 15 Assistant Directors
of Agriculture (ADA) who would be posted at subdivisional level; each would
supervise between 6 and 7 AOs. The senior officer in charge of the district
would be a Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA).
3.05      Staff Functions.  The approximately 660 farmers assigned to one FA
would be divided into eight groups of about 80 each.   Each FA, under the
supervision of an AO, would select out of each such subgroup 10 to 15 contact
farmers. The contact farmers would be visited every fortnight, always on the
same day, and the FA would impart the current extension messages to them. The
message would focus on the most important local crops and on practices of
immediate relevance; its content would be related to farm size and to the
farmers' ability to invest and take risks. The contact farmers would be
expected to convey the extension message to those farmers in their group who
were unable to be present during the FA's visit to the area. The FAs would
also carry out demonstrations and undertake trials on farmers' fields. They
would submit no formal reports but would keep a daily diary to record farm
visits, major recommendations made and problems to be discussed with
supervisors.
3.06      The AOs would supervise and guide the FAs by visiting each of them
every fortnight, scheduling the visit in such a manner that they meet the FA
with each of their farmer groups. Thereby, within a cycle of twelve weeks
(six fortnights) they will have visited their entire area. They would also
participate in the FAs' fortnightly training program (para 3.08), thereby
affording a second chance in the cycle to meet each of the FAs and attend to
any queries and problems the FAs may have encountered. The ADAs in the sub-
divisions would similarly visit their AOs regularly, arranging the visits so
that, as far as possible, they meet all the FAs in the field and the largest
possible number of farmer groups. The DDAs in charge of the districts would
have overall responsibility for all agricultural extension and related activi-
ties within their districts.



- 18 -
3.07      The proposed staffing (Table 3.1) would be organized as shown in
Figure 3.1. Staff functions and operating style are described generally in
"Agricultural Extension; the Training and Visits System" (para 2.26) and,
specifically, in an Operational Manual which adapts the system to conditions
in the Sind Province of Pakistan.
3.08      Training and Research Staff.  Each district would have three
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs); their disciplines would be plant protec-
tion, agronomy, and training. The SMSs would be the principal teachers at
the fortnightly training courses for the FAs. When not directly engaged in
training sessions, they would spend at least half their time in the field,
accompanying the FAs and AOs on their farm visits and advising and assisting
them in selecting and managing their demonstration plots.
3.09      Specialists, who would be equivalent in training and qualification
to the Senior Research Offices at present working with the Agricultural
Research Institute (ARI) at Tando Jam and the Rice Research Institute (RRI)
at Dokri, would be posted to four provincial Adaptive Research Farms (para
3.16) as Senior Subject Matter Specialists (SSMSs). The SSMSs would spend
about half their time on adaptive research work and half in providing technical
support for the SMSs and AOs. Part of their regular duties would be to review
the technical content of the training program for the FAs. It is expected
that the proposed team of SSMSs and SMSs would be able to develop and provide
the appropriate advice for the great majority of situations that would arise.
The SSMSs would maintain close contacts with the two research institutes and
consult with their staff as necessary.
3.10      Additional Staff Requirements would be met partly by recruitment
and partly by reassignments and promotions of suitably qualified staff.
(a)  FAs are being trained in ATI in Sakrand, but the output of
the Institution would allow for an increase of only about
100 FAs in three years after normal staff losses are replaced
(para 2.30). The shortfall would be made up from the present
cadre of beldars (skilled laborers). There are approximately
1,000 in the employ of the Sind Department of Agriculture. All
come from farming families; many have worked for the Department
for several years and a large number are literate in Sindhi.
Many can read Latin script, which enables them to identify
pesticides and fertilizers by reading the labels. Therefore, it
is highly probable that at least 120 of them could be selected
who would benefit from specially designed training and be suit-
able to serve as FAs. They would be selected in batches of 40
to 45 and be given two one-month concentrated training courses
at the ATI in Sakrand, one before each of the main crop seasons.
Minor investments in facilities at the Institute would be re-
quired; the staff and teaching facilities are adequate to meet
the additional needs. An assurance has been obtained from
GOSind that they would ensure that the FA establishment in
the five intensive project districts is increased by about
210 FAs during the three years after project effectiveness;



- 19 -
and that FAs who do not have a diploma from one of Pakistan's
ATIs would be given special intensive training before
induction. The FAs who do not have formal diplomas from
an ATI would be given a three to five year trial contract.
(b) AOs would become available partly from the seven districts
where at present there are too many in relation to the FAs
they have to supervise (para 3.15) and partly from the
graduates of the Agricultural University in Tando Jam
(para 2.31).
(c)  SMSs would be selected from suitable AOs.  They would be
given a short intensive special training course either at
the Agricultural University or at ARI in Tando Jam.
(d) ADA and DDA vacancies can be readily filled by promotion of
currently serving officers.
(e) SSMSs would come from the two research institutes. The
institutes would augment their establishment of Senior Research
Officers partly by promoting Research Officers, partly, if
necessary, by outside recruitment.
3.11      Transport.  Perhaps the biggest single handicap under which the
extension service labors is the lack of staff transport at all levels: the
more senior staff have old, worn-out vehicles; the field grades had no trans-
port at all until 1978. Funds to operate Government-owned vehicles, and to
compensate staff for the use of their own bicycles or motorcycles during the
five year implementation period would be provided   under the project.  The
FAs would be provided with bicycles; the AOs and SMSs with motorcycles, except
the SMS (training) who would have a half-ton pickup truck. The bicycles and
motorcycles would be purchased by their users. Provisions would be made for
cash advances to eligible staff members, which would be repayable according
to guidelines set by the Public Service Commission. An operating allowance
would be given which would be based on the estimated monthly distances to be
traveled on duty and would be sufficient to compensate the owner for fuel and
normal maintenance and repair costs, as well as amortization. An assurance
has been obtained from GOSind that it would provide the necessary funds to
compensate staff for duty travel.
3.12      Officers above the rank of AO would be provided with suitable in-
spection vehicles. Each district would, in addition, have a 1.5 ton truck
for moving material required for demonstration or teaching purposes that the
SMS Training is unable to transport in the course of his normal duties.
3.13      Staff Housing and Service Buildings.  At present, there is virtually
no housing owned by the Department of Agriculture in which to accommodate
their staff. In the major towns this is not a serious handicap: though
difficult, it is possible for staff members to rent suitable accommodation.
However, in the small towns, and even more so in the villages where all the
FAs and about half of the AOs must live to be readily accessible to farmers,
housing for rent is not available. The very few FAs and AOs who are housed



- 20 -
live on Government farms. The project would provide in the five districts
669 houses, including houses for all the FAs and AOs and staff at the ARFs,
four sets of farm buildings and offices, two soil testing laboratories and
15 ADA office complexes with training centers. Details and phasing of con-
struction are in Annex 3.1. An assurance has been obtained from GOSind that
all buildings provided under the project would be adequately maintained.
The Seven-District Component
3.14      In the remaining seven agricultural districts, the number of FAs
would not be increased, nor would they, or other staff, be provided with
housing, additional office facilities or other service buildings. The
project would support the operation of the T&V system by:
(a) introducing the same AO to FA ratio as in the five
districts (para 3.02);
(b) providing three SMSs in each of the seven districts with
the same duties as in the five districts (para 3.08); they
would be supported by the ARFs and SSMSs exactly as in the
five districts (para 3.08); and
(c) ensuring transport operating costs and traveling allowances
for FAs and providing suitable vehicles for other supervisory
staff (para 3.11).
3.15      The proposed redeployment of staff is shown in Table 3.2.  The
table also shows that most of the graduate staff released through the reorga-
nization would be absorbed by the five districts, where more graduate staff
is required for effective by supervising the increased number of FAs and AOs.
The establishment of the ARFs and the needs of a strengthened provincial
supervisory organization would readily absorb the remainder (Table 3.3).
The Support Organizations Component
3.16      Adaptive Research Farms (ARFs) which would serve all twelve districts
would be established in four of the five major agro-climatic zones of the
Province.  The purpose of these farms would be to link the research work of
the ARI at Tando Jam and the RRI in Dokri, and to provide testing grounds for
their recommendations under local conditions.  Their location and principal
crop orientations would be as follows:
District           Site                 Climatic Zone 1/            Crops
Hyderabad  1. Tando Mohammed Khan   Southern maritime           rice & sugarcane
2. Oderolal               Southern cotton/wheat   cotton, wheat
sugarcane
Sukkur     3. Ghotki                  Northern cotton/wheat   cotton & wheat
Nawabshah  4. Padidan                 Central; oilseed          wheat, cotton,
oilseeds
1/   Para 2.12 and Map 14187.



- 21 -
The ARFs would be established at existing Government owned farms at each of
the above locations. Some 60 ac would be set aside from each: about 50 ac
to be available for trial work and 10 ac for housing and farm buildings.
3.17      Each of the stations would be staffed by an agriculturist, a crop
specialist, and a plant protection specialist. In Oderolal and Ghotki
there would also be a farm planning and management specialist. There would
be two Research Assistants, three FAs and a farm manager. On each of the
stations, non-technical staff would be a tractor driver and skilled and semi-
skilled labor (Table 3.4). Job descriptions for each staff level and further
details on the organization and operating style of the ARF would be in the
Operational Manual of the Agricultural Extension Service (para 3.07).
3.18      A Director of Adaptive Research, attached to the Office of the
Director-General of Agricultural Extension (para 4.01) would be in charge of
the work programs of the ARFs. The programs would be developed jointly with
the Director of the ARI, Tando Jam and the Director of the RRI in Dokri. The
Divisional Directors of Agriculture would also participate in formulating the
program.
3.19      The farms would need adequate equipment to enable them to perform
all operations in good time, and also to have the means to till, plant and
harvest research plots on farmers' fields. Accordingly, each station would
be provided with a four-wheel tractor and equipment and a two-wheel tractor
which would be used for light work on research plots in farmers' fields. A
pair of oxen for light work on the farm; scales,sprayers and simple testing
and sampling tools, and sundry other equipment would also be provided.
3.20      Transport needs of the farms and of the SSMSs who would have to
travel extensively in the service areas of their stations, would be met by
providing three 4-WD vehicles for each farm and a pickup truck for use by
the farm manager and the Research Assistants. The farm tractor and its
trailer would meet such heavy transport needs that cannot be met by pro-
fessional hauliers. The Research Assistants would own their motorcycles,
under arrangements similar to that of the AOs and SMS. Operating costs
would be provided by the project.
3.21      Soils Laboratories would be attached to two of the five ARFs to
furnish individual farmers with chemical analyses and fertilizer application
recommendations. The laboratories would be manned by a chemist, two assistant
chemists and a laboratory assistant. Each laboratory would have the capa-
bility to analyze about 2,000 samples per month in a single shift operation.
The operational routine of the laboratories, and the analyses they would be
expected to perform, are described in the Operational Manual (para 3.07).
3.22      Technical Information Unit.  GOSind's Department of Agriculture,
which at present has no such facilities, would be provided with a technical
information unit. This would ensure that technical messages are conveyed in
a professional style. The unit would make use of leaflets, expertly produced
pamphlets, radio spots and articles placed in the local and national news-
papers. Its staff would consist of qualified public relations personnel: an
Information Officer, a photographer and a translator with knowledge of Sindhi,



- 22 -
Urdu and English. The agricultural extension and research services would
supply them with material which the Publications Officer would edit and
publish. The unit would report to the Office of the Director-General of
Agriculture (Extension) and would serve the entire Province.
3.23      Pest Scouting.  Cotton yields in the Sind are always low because of
inferior varieties and indifferent cultural practices. They also fluctuate
considerably according to the severity of pest attacks. The extension serv-
ice would, as a matter of top priority, advocate improved cultural practices
and in particular establishing the correct plant populations. While the
present varieties, even under the best cultural practices, would not ensure
high yields, all evidence suggests that a 50-60% improvement is within the
genetic potential of the present varieties if, in addition to improving the
basic crop agronomy, the crop is also adequately protected against pests.
3.24      Pesticides would be applied by the farmers themselves; the FAs
would demonstrate methods, give advice on mixing and handling the chemicals
and also on the best type of sprayers to use (para 3.05). A pest scouting
service would, in addition, ensure that farmers are advised when to spray
for maximum effectiveness.
3.25      The three principal cotton pests in the Sind are jassids, the
spotted and the pink bollworm. Incidence of the two former would be deter-
mined by the farmer themselves, guided and advised by the FAs, their sup-
porting AOs and SMSs and also, as time allows, by a cadre of Pest Scouts.
However, in the appropriate season, the Pest Scouts would concentrate on
monitoring the population of the pink bollworm, which the farmer would not
be able to do. In areas where the Pest Scouts observe pink bollworm popula-
tions above the danger level, they would advise the farmers, through the
FAs, to spray immediately.
3.26      Pest scouting would, initially, be confined to Nawabshah district,
which is also the home of the Cotton Research Institute (para 2.27). The
technical staff at the Institute would be able effectively to support scout-
ing in its home district with the least effort. The Pest Scouts would be
agricultural graduates, who would receive a short, intensive training in
their new discipline. There would be four scouts in the district, posted to
Nawabshah, Kandiaro, Nausharo Feroze and Sakrand talukas: a total of four
scouts. They would operate pheromone traps which would be set every night
and be checked every morning (Annex 3.2). The findings, if they indicate the
likelihood of damage   by high populations, would be communicated to the FA
in whose area they occur. The scouts would reside in taluka headquarters and
travel on their daily rounds on 4 WD vehicles to be provided under the project.
3.27      Consulting Services and Training.  The Sind Department of Agricul-
ture would engage expatriate technical assistance to expedite the effective
and speedy adaptation of the T&V system and the focussing of staff training
to the farmers' immediate needs. The Department would also use the consult-
ants' services to assist in broadening the scope of extension advice from the
present type of information confined primarily to the agronomy of specific
crops, almost in isolation from one another, to information on all aspects



- 23 -
aspects of the farming enterprise. The consultants would also assist the ARFs
in ensuring that soils laboratories are organized as much for rapid throughput
as for accuracy, and would assist in developing systematic monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of the project by the Sind Regional Planning Organi-
zation (SRPO) which is attached to the Provincial Planning and Development
Department (para 4.11). The assistance of an expert would be needed to train
the pest scouts and also the SMSs and the SSMSs on pest scouting and inter-
preting the results. The project includes provision of about US$0.5 M for
about 55 man-months expatriate consulting services (para 4.13). An assurance
has been obtained from GOSind that the Sind Department of Agriculture would
engage the services of suitable consultants, according to a timetable agreed
with IDA and under terms of reference and conditions of service acceptable to
the Association. GOP and GOSind have given an undertaking that they would
obtain consultancy services under a UNDP technical assistance project before
October 31, 1979. The Bank would be the executing agency of the project.
3.28      Selected extension staff at all levels would be sent on study tours
to observe the working of similarly organized extension services in other
countries where conditions are comparable to Pakistan. The project cost
also includes provision of about US$0.2 M for such study tours as well as
for imported vehicles and equipment required for the consulting services
(Annex 4.1).
Implementation Schedule
3.29      The project would be carried out over a period of five years, at
present estimated to be between January 1, 1980 and December 31, 1984 (Figure
3.2). Major investments would be completed in the first three years; the
remaining two would be principally devoted to achieving maximum operational
efficiency and to establish and fully utilize the second soils laboratory.
3.30      Timely and efficient project implementation depends largely on the
qualities of the officials in key positions and on the organizational frame-
work within which they function. The key people are, therefore, the Director-
General of Extension and the Project Executive Officer who would report to
the D-G (Figure 3.1). Therefore, a condition of credit effectiveness, would
be that GOSind had appointed a Director-General for Agricultural Extension
whose experience and qualifications were satisfactory to IDA.
3.31      Project implementation is contingent on the appointment of the
additional staff in the numbers, with the designations and at the dates
shown in Table 3.5. An assurance has been obtained from GOSind that they
would appoint four officers of Director grade, 27 officers of Deputy Director
grade, and 236 officials of Field Assistant grade according to a time schedule
satisfactory to IDA, and that they would maintain the staff numbers and grades
of the agricultural extension service at a level acceptable to IDA.
3.32      Staff mobility is essential for the effective implementation of
the project (Table 3.6). An assurance has been obtained from GOSind that
they would provide the agricultural extension staff with about 267 bicycles,



- 24 -
99 motorcycles, 22 pickups, 54 four-wheel drive vehicles and six passenger
cars according to a timetable satisfactory to IDA and that thereafter they
would maintain their vehicle numbers at a level acceptable to the Association.
Cost Estimate
3.33      Cost estimates are shown in Annex 3.3 and in summary form on the
next page. The project is expected to cost US$14.27 M equivalent (including
US$0.5 M for duties and taxes). The direct and indirect foreign exchange
component would be about US$4.21 M. The adaptive research component, consist-
ing of investments in ARFs and soils laboratories and emoluments of adaptive
research staff during project execution, amounts to about 24.5% of total
project costs. Physical contingencies are about 8%, varying from 5% on
salaries and staff allowances to 10% on buildings which would be constructed
to standard designs. Price escalation was calculated using the following
factors:
Year 1    Year 2      Year 3-5
Foreign Costs (%)           6         6            6
Local Costs (%)            12        11           10
The resulting price escalation estimate amounts to US$3.4 M or about 24% of
total project costs.



- 25 -
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
------ (Rs M)             ------ (US$M)
I. Land Acquisition              0.66      -       0.66    0.07      -       O.Oi
II. Civil Works
Staff Housing               34.44    6.09   40.53    3.48    0.61    4.09
ARF Complexes                 6.45    1.18    7.63    0.65    0.12    0.77
Soils Laboratories
and housing                 0.88    0.16    1.04    0.09    0.02    0.11
Training Centers
and other Buildings         0.66    0.12    0.78    0.07    0.01    0.08
Engineering &
Administration              5.18    1.17    6.35    0.52    0.12    0.64
Furniture                    0.75    0.19    0.94    0.07    0.02    0.09
Subtotal               48.36    8.91   57.27    4.88    0.90    5.78
III. Equipment & Transport
Office Equipment              0.12    0.13    0.25    0.02    0.01    0.03
Information & Training
Equipment                   0.12    0.13    0.25    0.01    0.01    0.02
Soils Laboratory Equipment 0.62    0.66    1.28    0.06    0.07    0.13
ARF Equipment                 0.25    0.65    0.90    0.03    0.06    0.09
Vehicles                      5.69    3.89    9.58    0.55    0.42    0.97
Subtotal                6.80    5.46   12.26    0.67    0.57    1.24
IV. Incremental Operating
Costs
Salaries                    10.59      -      10.59    1.11       -       1.11
Allowance                     1.69     -       1.69    0.18       -       0.18
Vehicle Operation             2.79    8.38   11.17    0.28    0.85    1.13
Operating ARFs               0.24    0.73    0.97    0.02    0.07    0.10
Maintenance of Buildings   2.21    0.55    2.76    0.22    0.06    0.28
Pest Scouting                0.78    0.39    1.17    0.14    0.07    0.21
Subtotal               18.30   10.05   28.35    1.85    1.01    2.85
V. Consultants and Training   0.25    6.79    7.04    0.02    0.68    0.71
Net Project Costs            74.37   31.21  105.58    7.49    3.16   10.65
Physical Contingencies        5.14    2.12    7.26    0.52    0.21    0.73
Price Escalation            20.12    8.30   28.42    2.05    0.84    2.89
TOTAL                    99.63   41.63  141.26   10.06    4.21   14.27
Less:  Duties & Taxes         4.95     -       4.95    0.50       -       0.50
TOTAL WITHOUT
DUTIES & TAXES             94.68   41.63  136.31    9.56    4.21   13.77
Errors due to rounding.



- 26 -
Financing
3.34      The project would be financed by GOP/GOSind, IDA, and UNDP 1/
according to the following plan:
GOP/GOSind       IDA      UNDP       Total
---------------US$ M-----------_________
Land acquisition                   0.07           -         -         0.07
Civil Works                        0.40          7.50       -         7.90
Equipment and Transport              -           1.00       -         1.00
Incremental Operating
Costs                            2.85           -         -        2.85
Consultants and Training           0.02           -        0.69      0.71
Subtotal                      3.34          8.50     0.69      12.53
Unallocated                        1.24          0.50       -         1.74
Total                         5.08          9.00     0.69      14.27
The financing table includes duties and taxes.
3.35      The proposed IDA credit of US$9.0 M, covering 65% of the total
project cost excluding taxes and duties (63% if duties and taxes are included)
would finance US$4.21 M in foreign exchange costs, all but the US$0.7 M
foreign cost under consideration by UNDP, and US$5.4 M or 56% of the local
costs. The proceeds of the credit would be lent to GOP on standard IDA terms
and on-lent to GOSind on the same terms.
Procurement
3.36      Contracts for the construction and furnishing of the buildings and
ARF complexes (US$5.78 M) would be let in accordance with GOSind's procedures
for local competitive bidding, which are satisfactory to IDA. Tractors, and
related equipment for the ARFs (US$90,000) would be purchased through the
Pakistan Tractor Corporation; motorcycles, motorcars, pickups and four-wheel-
drive vehicles (US$0.90 M) through the Pakistan Automobile Corporation. Both
these corporations obtain their supplies from international sources in accord-
ance with procedures that are satisfactory to IDA. Bicycles, equipment for
the soils laboratories (US$90,000) and other equipment would be purchased
according to International Competitive Bidding procedures or other procedures
acceptable to IDA. In the case of participation in ICB by Pakistan manufac-
turers, a margin of preference of 15% of the CIF prices or the prevailing
duties, if lower, would be applicable. Vehicles, goods, and materials up to
a total value of US$350,000 may be purchased off-the-shelf in small contracts
of US$15,000 or less according to GOP prudent shopping procedures which are
1/   GOSind through GOP has approached UNDP for financing the US$0.7 million
foreign exchange cost of consultants and training.



- 27 -
satisfactory to IDA. To enable the project to start quickly, it has been
agreed that GOSind would be reimbursed for vehicles purchased after May 1,
1979 and before the project becomes effective, up to a sum of US$300,000
equivalent.
Disbursements
3.37      Disbursements under the IDA credit would be as follows:
(a)  95% of expenditures for the construction of housing,
training and research facilities; and
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles
and equipment, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory)
for vehicles and equipment manufactured locally, or 90%
of expenditures for other vehicles and equipment procured
locally.
Disbursements against all categories would be fully documented. The expected
schedule of disbursements is shown in Table 3.7.
Accounts and Audits
3.38      The Department of Agriculture is subject to normal Government
control and auditing procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Project
accounts would be maintained separately, in a readily identifiable form,
to enable them to be audited separately from the overall accounts of the
Department by an independent external auditor. Assurances have been obtained
from GOSind that:
(a)  separate accounts would be established and maintained for
project expenditures;
(b)  accounts and financial statements would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; and
(c)  certified copies of audited accounts and the auditor's
report would be submitted to IDA for review not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year;
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
Extension Management and Operation
4.01      Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
the Department of Agriculture and, within it, primarily with the Agricultural
Extension Directorate. To enable the Directorate effectively to supervise
and control extension activities, it would be strengthened and its middle



- 28 -
and top level management staff increased (para 3.30 and Figure 3.1). The
Director of Adaptive Research would report to the Director-General (Extension)
but would maintain close and constant contact with the Director of the Agri-
cultural Research Institute in Tando Jam and the Director of the Rice Research
Institute in Dokri. The Pakistan Agricultural Research Council which is
controlled by GOP, is at present reviewing the organization and management of
agricultural research services throughout Pakistan, its linkage with extension
services and other development activities and is preparing an agricultural
research project suitable for financing from international sources. Therefore,
this project does not include provisions for improving the present research
organization. However, the option of attaching the Director of Adaptive
Research to a future Director General of Research would remain and would be
reviewed in the light of the overall reorganization of the research services.
4.02      At present, FAs and their beldars are involved in the sale and
application of pesticides (para 2.24). However, the private sector is
increasingly being involved in pesticide marketing: they make use of the
extensive fertilizer dealer network (para 2.32) to market pesticides incre-
mentally to their fertilizer operation. It is GOSind's intention to let
SASO market pesticides as well as fertilizers and seeds, which would relieve
the FAs from the burden of selling pesticides and sprayers. The change would
increase SASO's overall marketing costs only marginally and would not add
to their market development budget. The supervision of spraying in farmers'
fields would be replaced by an extensive demonstration and training effort,
which would form a vital part of the FAs' work program in the appropriate
seasons.
4.03      The pest scouting service would, for the present, be placed under
the operational control of ARI in Tando Jam, who would consult with the
Cotton Research Institute in Sakrand. However, when an integrated cotton
improvement project, which is at present under consideration, materializes,
or a pest scouting organization is extended all over the Sind and also built
up in the Punjab, then its staffing and management may well be taken over by
PCCC and be operated entirely by the Sakrand and Multan Cotton Research
Institutes.
4.04      Principally because the IDA supported seed project (Cr. 620-PAK)
does not yet produce and market certified cotton seed, the Department of
Agriculture is endeavoring to fill the gap by assigning some FAs to ginneries
full time during the rabi season to supervise the selection and ginning of
batches of seed cotton from fields that have produced a good crop (para 2.24).
The benefits of such selection are debatable; moreover, the full implementa-
tion of the seeds project would render this commitment redundant. To eliminate
these two major demands on the FAs that distracts them from their principal
duty of agricultural extension, a condition of credit effectiveness would be
that GOSind issue orders to relieve agricultural extension staff in direct
contact with the farmers of all duties that do not directly pertain to
extension activities.



- 29 -
4.05      The basis of the operation of the extension service would be the
T&V system which is already operating within the Department's present con-
straints (para 2.26). To ensure that the system is operated entirely accord-
ing to appropriate principles and practices and with adequate and timely
support, an assurance has been obtained from GOSind that they furnish a final
detailed plan of the proposed staff organization and staff increases in the
entire Province and of the phasing of the supporting investment plan by
December 31, 1979 and that they would start implementing the plan by March 1,
1980.
4.06      The present compensation level of the FAs is low, a fact recog-
nized not only by GOSind but also by the other Provincial Governments. A
review is at present under consideration; it would seem highly desirable
to provide adequate motivation to this key cadre of the service.
The Execution of the Building Program
4.07      Design, supervision of construction and subsequent maintenance of
the buildings would be the task of the Communications and Works Department.
Implementation of the project by the Department as presently structured would
mean subdividing the project into three parts each controlled by a Departmental
Head (Figure 4.1), thus making planning, design and accounting operations
difficult and cumbersome, since only the Chief Engineer would have overall
control of the project. To expedite implementation, an assurance has been
obtained from GOSind that by October 1, 1979, a Project Coordinator would be
assigned to the Chief Engineer's office, with the exclusive duty to supervise,
coordinate and expedite the execution of the building program of the project.
4.08      The exact location of the buildings would have to be determined
as soon as possible; the matter has been under active consideration since
late 1978. To ensure implementation in accordance with the proposed imple-
mentation schedule, an assurance has been obtained from GOSind that sites
for Phase I will be purchased before September 30, 1979 and sites for Phases
II and III identified by March 31, 1980 and purchased by August 31, 1980.
Vehicles and Equipment
4.09      The identification of the right kind of vehicles, and their acqui-
sition, would be the duty of the Agricultural Engineering Directorate, working
with the Director-General Extension. The D-G Extension would consult with the
divisional DAs and the DAR concerning equipment requirements of the ARFs.
Equipment required to produce and present simple visual aids for staff train-
ing and for farmer meetings would be identified and procured by the Project
Executive Officer in consultation with visual aid experts in the Information
Department of GOSind.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10      An essential component of the project is to monitor its impact and
evaluate the results achieved. The former relates to the number of farmers
exposed to the advice of the extension service; the latter to the yields
achieved by the farmers who are in close contact with extension officers



- 30 -
compared to those who are not. The proper collection and evaluation of such
information would assist in determining any changes that may be needed in the
ongoing project. Guidelines on the proposed methodology which has proved
successful in evaluating other similar projects are described in "A System for
Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension Projects" (World Bank Staff
Paper No. 272) which has also been adapted to reflect conditions in Pakistan.
4.11      To ensure effective project monitorings and evaluation, assurances
has been obtained from GOSind that the progress of the T&V system of exten-
sion would be fully monitored and evaluated by an organization acceptable to
GOSind and IDA.
4.12      Monitoring and evaluation would be conducted by the Sind Regional
Planning Organization. They may wish to use part of the fees, which would be
financed by the UNDP Technical Assistance Project designed to help GOSind
implement this project, to purchase vehicles, calculators, etc.
Technical Assistance
4.13      To assist the Department of Agriculture in efficiently executing
the project, GOSind would engage about 55 man-months expatriate technical
expertise as follows:
(a) An Extension and Training Consultant (about 24 man-months),
experienced in the T&V system of agricultural extension.
He would be required during the first two years of project
execution. His functions would be to:
(i) advise and assist in the design and implementation of
staff training programs;
(ii) advise and assist in organizing the service according
to the T&V system.
(b) A Farm Management and Farm Planning Consultant (about 18 man-
months) would develop the data and methodology to prepare
integrated plans for individual farm types with a view to
maximizing income from the entire enterprise. He would be
required for 1-1/2 years.
(c) A Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant (about eight man-months)
would be required for four periods of two months each, to
assist the Sind Regional Planning Organization in organizing
the benchmark survey to be conducted soon after the start of
the project and to assist as necessary with a mid-term survey
and one to be conducted shortly before the completion of the
project.
Additional individual experts (about five man-months) would be engaged for a
series of short-term consultancies to advise primarily on the selection of
equipment and operation of the soils laboratories, and to ensure maximum



- 31 -
output and utilization of equipment. Other needs for short-terms advice may
also arise. Full detailed cost estimates and job descriptions of the con-
sultant services are given in Annex 4.1.
Coordination With Other Projects
4.14      The Seeds Project (Cr. 620-PAK) which is being executed by the Sind
Seeds Corporation (SSC) is charged to provide certified seeds of wheat,
cotton and rice for sale in the Province. The extension project is expected
to help generate the demand for such seed. Regarding the varieties that SSC
should multiply, guidance would come as much from the extension service
reflecting the wishes and experience of the farmers as from the field testing
of new varieties by the research stations and the ARFs. This coordination
would be formalized in the composition and terms of reference of the Project
Review Committee (para 4.16).
4.15      The Third Education Project (Cr. 1056-PAK) provides the means of
FA training in the ATI in Sakrand, not only through the provision of facil-
ities at the Institute but also through the training of the teachers. These
teachers would, during project implementation, upgrade the beldars (para
3.09) and also, through the Principal who would be member of the Project
Review Committee, review and update their training syllabus according to
the demonstrable needs of the extension service. Coordination would be
further strengthened through the fact that the Principal reports to the
Director General (Extension) (Figure 3.1).
Project Coordination
4.16      The project would be coordinated by two committees:
(a)  The Project Review Committee would review achievements in the
previous season and set the general guidelines for the extension
service for its future operation. It would meet before each of
the major crop seasons (kharif and rabi). It would have the
following members:
Secretary for Agriculture,
Livestock and Fisheries                Chairman
Director General, Extension              Secretary & Convener
Director, ARI Tando Jam                  Member
Director, RRI Dokri                      Member
Managing Director, Sind Seeds
Corporation                            Member
Director of Regulation,
Irrigation Department                  Member
Divisional Commissioner - Hyderabad    Member
- Sukkur        Member
Registrar, Cooperative Societies         Member
Director, SASO                           Member
Representatives of Commercial
Banks (in rotation)                    Member
Zonal Manager (ADBP)                     Member



- 32 -
(b)  District Advisory Committees would be established in each
district. They would review operations, bring to the DDAs'
or EADAs' attention problems they wish to be resolved and
advise him on actions they consider would improve the effec-
tiveness of the service and help the farmers. The District
Committees would meet at least four times a year; before the
two main cropping seasons to decide on the execution of the
extension campaigns agreed by the Project Review Committee
and about half way along the season, to review progress.
Membership would be as follows:
DDA or ADA                                Chairman & Convenor
Deputy Commissioner or his nominee       Member
Sub-divisional ADAs or the senior AO
in each taluka                         Member
District Manager, SASO                   Member
Assistant Registrar, Cooperative
Societies                              Member
District Manager of Commercial Banks
(in -rotation)                         Member
One contact farmer from each taluka    Member
4.17      Since it is considered essential that the departments most directly
concerned with crop production (agriculture, irrigation, administration,
supplies, banking and planning and development) should be involved in the proj-
ect from the outset, the appointment of the Project Review Committee, with
membership and terms of reference acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of
credit effectiveness.
4.18      Further, an assurance has been given by GOSind that by December 31,
1979, they would appoint District Advisory Committees in Hyderabad, Sanghar,
Nawabshah, Sukkur and Larkana districts, with membership and terms of reference
that are satisfactory to IDA.
Project Completion
4.19      Assurances have been obtained from GOSind that promptly after
completion of the project, but in any event not later than six months after
the closing date, it would prepare and furnish to the Association a report on
the execution and initial operation of the project, its cost and the benefits
derived, and to be derived, from it.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Farm Benefits
5.01      Depending on the level of husbandry and financial capacity of each
farmer, the extension service would convey a different technical package.



- 33 -
The impact on farm yields would vary accordingly. Three levels of packages
for each crop have been identified (Table 5.1). These basic packages would
be refined in the Adaptive Research Farms. The simplest packages concentrate
on the use of improved cultural practices, and involve little or no additional
cash inputs. The other packages would include the same basic cultural prac-
tices together with different levels of fertilizer and pesticide use. The
packages from which project benefits have been estimated reflect the present
level of technology and not levels based on expected future improvements in
varieties, inputs, farm equipment or infrastructure. The adaptation rates
are assumed to be greatest in the early years (5-10) after the system has
been established, when the greatest potential for improvement within present
technology exists. The rates adapted in this report taper off in subsequent
years when it is assumed more and more farmers reach higher levels of achieve-
ment within this technology. To simplify the financial and economic analyses,
the likelihood that new technology will develop within 10 to 15 years has not
been taken into account although the establishing of an Adaptive Research
organization has the introduction of new technologies as its objective.
Financial Impact
5.02      Farmers adopting the proposed packages would receive attractive
benefits. The returns to incremental labor from the packages vary widely,
but all are substantially in excess of current wage rates, indicating that,
where necessary, farmers would be prepared to hire labor to carry out the
recommended practices.
Economic Impact
5.03      Allocation of the benefits of this type of project between improve-
ments in agricultural practices and the use of additional inputs cannot be
defined. Even without an improvement in the agricultural extension service
farmers have been making increasing use of farm inputs, although generally not
in optimum applications, and improved some farm practices, although generally
not to the maximum extent. However, past experience in other countries has
demonstrated that extension service improvements as proposed would enable
greater numbers of farmers to achieve higher levels of performance within a
shorter period of time. No evidence exists in Pakistan on which to estimate
acceptance rates, but experience elsewhere suggests that the rates used in
Tables 5.2 and 5.3 are conservative.
5.04      The principal economic benefit of the project would be increased
agricultural production associated with higher yields, particularly those of
foodgrains. If yields increased by at least 3% in five years over the "with-
out project" situation, the economic rate of return would exceed 50%. This
expectation is reasonable since the better farmers in Sind already get nearly
twice the average yields of the Province and, on research stations, even higher
levels are reached. In an extreme situation, for the project to have at least
a 15% rate of return, the improved extension service would have to bring about
an average yield increase of only 0.3% per year over the "without project"
situation.



- 34 -
Social Benefits
5.05      In the past, agricultural development strategy was aimed at achiev-
ing production increases mainly through investment in irrigation and through
provision of 'optimal' package of inputs, including HYV and substantial dosez
of fertilizer and pesticides. Use of these inputs by small farmers usually
requires credit which, more often than not, is prohibitively expensive. Con-
sequently, larger farmers have benefited most from past programs. The pro-
posed extension service would focus first on improved cultural practices and
better farm management and use of low cost inputs, all accessible to small
farmers. Thus, the project provides a unique opportunity for small and
marginal farmers as well as large farmers to benefit. Therefore, apart from
generating high economic benefits, the project would have a beneficial impact
on marginal and small farmers, now living close to or below the poverty line.
Project Risks
5.06      The most significant risk lies in the fact that the effectiveness
of new extension methodology is highly dependent on effective management of
the extension and research services. Experience with ongoing projects in
neighboring countries has already demonstrated, however, that the new system
can work efficiently in formulation and delivery of messages, and in motivat-
ing farmers.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOSind that:
(a) they would ensure that the PA establishment in the five
intensive project districts is increased by about 210
FAs during the first three years after project effective-
ness; and that FAs who do not have a diploma from one
of Pakistan's ATIs are given special intensive training
before induction (para 3.10);
(b) they would provide the necessary funds to compensate staff
for duty travel (para 3.11);
(c) all buildings provided under the project would be ade-
quately maintained (para 3.13);
(d) the Sind Department of Agriculture will engage the services
of suitable consultants, according to a timetable agreed with
IDA and under terms of reference and conditions of service
acceptable to the Association (para 3.27);
(e) they would appoint four officers of Director grade, 27
officers of Deputy Director grade, and 236 officials of



- 35 -
Field Assistant grade according to a time schedule satis-
factory to IDA, and that they would maintain the staff
members and grades of the agricultural extension service
at a level acceptable to IDA (para 3.31);
(f) they would provide the agricultural extension staff with
about 267 bicycles, 99 motorcycles, 22 pickups, 54 four-
wheel drive vehicles and six passenger cars according to
a timetable satisfactory to IDA and that thereafter they
would maintain their vehicle numbers at a level acceptable
to the Association (para 3.32);
(g)  (i)  separate accounts would be established and maintained
for project expenditures;
(ii) the accounts and financial statements would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
and
(iii) certified copies of audited accounts and the auditor's
report would be submitted to IDA for review not later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year
(para 3.38).
(h) they submit a final detailed plan of the proposed staff
organization and staff increases in the entire province
and of the phasing of the supporting investment plan by
December 31, 1979 and that they would start implementing the
plan by March 1980 (para 4.05);
(i) by October 1, 1979, a Project Coordinator would be assigned
to the Chief Engineer's office with the exclusive duty
to supervise, coordinate and expedite the execution of the
building program of the project (para 4.07);
(j) sites for Phase I will be purchased before September 30, 1979
and sites for Phases II and III identified by M4arch 31, 1980
and purchased by August 31, 1980 (para 4.08);
(k) the progress of the T&V system of extension would be fully
monitored and evaluated an organization acceptable to GOSind
and IDA (para 4.11);
(1) by December 31, 1979, they would appoint District Advisory
Committees in Hyderabad, Sanghar, Nawabshah, Sukkur and
Larkana districts, with membership and terms of reference
that are satisfactory to IDA (para 4.18);



- 36 -
(m) promptly after completion of the project, but in any
event not later than six months after the closing date,
it would prepare and furnish to the Association a report
on the execution and initial operation of the project,
its cost and the benefits derived, and to be derived,
from it (para 4.19).
6.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) GOSind had appointed a Director-General for Agricultural
Extension whose experience and qualifications were satis-
factory to IDA (para 3.30);
(b) issue orders to relieve agricultural extension staff in
direct contact with the farmers of all duties that do not
directly pertain to extension activities (para 4.04); and
(c) there had been the appointment of the Project Review Com-
mittee, with membership and terms of reference acceptable
to IDA (para 4.17).
6.03      With the acceptance of the above assurances and conditions of credit
effectiveness met, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of
US$9 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan.
May 7, 1979



Table 2.1
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTTRAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Total Cropped Area and Percent Under Major Crops
Sugar- Oil-
Area     Wheat  Cotton   Rice    cane   seeds
('000 ac) -(Percent cropped area) -------
Hyderabad          960       23      24       23       4        3
Badin              511       14      17       48       8        2
Thatta             540        5       -       61       1       4
Dadu               627       29        2      30       -        5
Sanghar            844      40       40        1       1       1
Tharparkar         746       39      35        1       2       -
Nawabshah        1,010       38      24        1       4      11
Khairpur           694       36      27        3       2       2
Sukkur             740       20      14       26      -        3
Shikarpur          756       24      17       34      -        3
Jacobabad        1,192       14       1       47       -       1
Larkana            744       16       -       50       -       3
TOTAL       9,364      25       28       26      2        3
37



Table 2.2
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Yields for Major Crops in Sind
(In maunds/ac)
Wheat         Rice (Paddy)       Seed Cotton       Sugarcane
1965/66               8.6              15.2              10.8              443
1966/67               8.3              14.7               9.9              399
1967/68              10.8              15.8               9.6              431
1968/69              11.3              21.9              10.5              443
1969/70              13.1              25.8              10.8              442
1970/71              14.5              27.2              11.1              443
1971/72              15.0              28.2              12.6              400
1972/73              15.4              28.3              15.0              400
1973/74              16.1              28.5              14.4              405
1974/75              16.4              24.6              13.2              286
1975/76              17.0              28.6              11.7              368
1976/77              17.3              28.1               9.6              368
1977/78              17.1
Source:  Agricultural Statistics of Pakistan, 1975, 1976 and 1977.
38



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Present Organizaton Chart of the Department of Agriculture
Secretary of Agriculture, Livestock & Fisheries
I~'                                                                                                1
Drector of Agriculture                                                           Director, RR I                  Director of Agricultural
(AR I, Tandojam)                                                                  Dokri                             Engineering
Director of Agriculture
(Extension)
_ DDA (Administration)
Horticulturist
Plant Protection Officer
r                                                                                                             I
Deputy Director of Agriculture                                                                                Deputy Director of Agriculture
(Hyderabad)                                                                                                     (Sukkur)
Fl-.
OQ
-Assistant Horticultural Officer                                              Assistant Horticultural Officer-
0
-Assistant Production Officer                                                  Assistant Production Officer 
EADAs in Districts- APPO                                                                                      EADAs in District - APPO
(Hyderabad, Badin, Thatta,                                                                                   (Sukkur, Khairpur, Larkana,
Tharparkar, Sanghar, Dadu)                                                                                Shikarpur, Nawabshah, Jacobabad)
I                                                                                                             I
AAs (95)                                                                                                     AAs (107)
FAs (322)                                                                                                   . FAs (381)
ID
World Bank -19942



Table 3.1
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Present and Proposed District Staffing Pattern - Five Districts
Approx.
Proposed
Farmer/FA
FA       AO      SMS    ADA    DDA    Ratio
Hyderabad (85)-/
Present                       66       16       1       1     NIL
Proposed                     126       21       3       3       1
Additional Needs              60        5       2       2       1      670
Sanghar (65)-/
Present                       50       12       1       1     NIL
Proposed                      96       16       3       3       1
Additional Needs              46        4       2       2       1      680
Nawabshah (90)-/
Present                       93       17       1       1     NIL
Proposed                     132       22       3       3       1
Additional Needs              39        5       2       2       1      660
Sukkur (80)-/
Present                       58       20       1       1     NIL
Proposed                     126       21       3       3       1
Additional Needs              70        1       2       2       1      635
Larkana (75)-/
Present                      108       26       1       1     NIL
Proposed                     114      19        3       3       1
Additional Needs               6       (7)      2       2       1      660
Total Five Districts (395)1/
Present                      375       91       5       5     NIL
Proposed                     594       99      15      15       5
Additional Needs             219        8      10      10       5      660
Need for Additional Agricultural Diplomates   219
Need for Additional Agricultural Graduates       33
1/  Number of independently operated farms (in '000).
40



Table 3.2
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Present and Proposed District Staffing Pattern - Seven Districts
FAY           AA           SMS        EADA
Tharparkar
Present                                   64           15            1          1
Proposed                                  64           11            3          1
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                  (4)           2          -
Thatta
Present                                   50           18            1          1
Proposed                                  50            9            3          1
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                   (9)          2          -
Badin
Present                                   24            8            1          1
Proposed                                  24            4            2          1
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                  (4)           1          -
Dadu
Present                                   68           26            1          1
Proposed                                  68           12            3          1
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                 (14)           2          -
Khairpur (Excluding SCARP Area)
Present                                  50            17            1          1
Proposed                                 50             9            3          1
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                  (8)           2          -
Jacobabad
Present                                   51           18            1          1
Proposed                                  51            9            3          1
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                  (9)           2          -
Shikarpur
Present                                  21             9            -          -
Proposed                                  21            4            2          1
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                  (5)           2          1
Total
Present                                 328           111            6          7
Proposed                                328            58           19          6
Vacancies (Surpluses)                                 (53)          13          1
Graduate Staff Surpluses in Seven Districts    39
Graduate Staff Vacanzies in Five Districts           33 (Table 3.1)
Graduate Staff Available for Reassignment             6
1/ No increase in the number of FAs.
41



Table 3.3
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL 'EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Present and Future Staff Numbers
Total      Total
Additional In                        Addi-      Future
Present    1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   tional           Staff
I/
Director-General (20- )                         NIL           1        _            -          _          _         1            1
Director of Agriculture (19)
Extension Operation                             1           1          -          -          -          -         1            2
Project Executive Officer                     NIL           1          -          -          -          -         1            1
Directdr of Adaptive Research                 NIL           -          1          -          -          -         1            1
Information Officer                           NIL         _            1          -          -          -         1            1
Subtotal Grade 19                               1           2          2          -        _            -         4            5
Deputy Director of Agriculture (18)
In Charge of Divisions                          2          (2)         -          -          -          -        (2)         NIL
In Charge of Districts                        NIL           5          -          -          _          -         5            5
Senior Training Officer                       NIL           1          -          -                               I -   1      1
SSHS                                          NIL           -          8          6          -          -        14           14
Soil Scientist                                NIL           -          1          -          1          -         2            2
Subtotal Grade 18                               2           4          9          6          1          -        2            2
Assistant Director of Agriculture (17)
In Charge of Districts                         11          (4)         -          -          -          -        (4)           7
In Charge of Subdivisions                     NIL          15          -          _          _          _        15           15
Information Section                           NIL           2          -          -          -          -         2            2
Assistant Chemist                             NIL           -          1          -          1          -         2            2
Research Assistant                            NIL           -          4          4          2          -        10           10
Farm Manager                                  NIL           -          2          2                     -         4            4
Subject Matter Specialists                     11          25          -          -          -          -        25           36
Agricultural Officers                         202         (38)        (7)-                                      (45)         157
Subtotal Grade 17                             224       None        None          6          3      None          9          233
Field Assistants (9)
Extension Work                                703          50         84         85          -          -       219          922
ARFs                                          NIL           -          6          6          -          -        12           12
Laboratory Assistants                         NIL           -          1          -          1          -         2            2
Subtotal                                      703          50         91         91          1          -      233           936
TOTAL EXTENSION STAFF                           930          57        102        103          5          -       267        1,197
1/   National Pay Scale. (Annex 3.3, Table 16).
42



PAKISTAN                              Table 3.4
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Staffing Pattern of Adaptive Research Farms
Senior Staff
Crop         Plant         Agronomy   Farm        TOTAL
Specialist   Protection                Manage-
ment
Tando Mohammed Khan            1-/           1             1          -         3
Oderolal                       12/           1             1          1         4
Chotki                         12/           1             1          1         4
Nawabshah ab/                                1            1          -          3
TOTAL          4             4             4          2        14
I/ rice and sugarcane                                    3/ oilseeds, cotton and wheat
2/ cotton and wheat                                      -
Supporting Established ARF Staff
Research Assistants  *8                Field Assistants  12
Farm Managers          4               Tractor Drivers    4
Drivers for 4 WD      12               Beldars             8
vehicles
Staff for the Soils Laboratories
Chemist                2
Assistant Chemist      4
Laboratory Assist.    2
Driver                 2
Total establishment of ARFs and Soils Laboratories : 72
43



Table 3.5
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Designation and Time of Appointment of Additional Staff
1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   Total
Director-General (Extension)                1                                            1
Director of Agriculture                     2           2                                4
Deputy Director of Agriculture              4           9          6          1         20
Assistant Director of Agriculture           -          -           6          3          9
Field Assistant                            50         91          91          1       233
Total                                      57        102         103          5       267
Note    For appointments under the various designations see Table 3.3
44



Table 3.6
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Transport Vehicle Requirements
Bicycles       Motorcycles    4-WD    Pickups    Saloon cars
Extension Service
FA (Extension)                   922 
FAs or ARFs                       15               -             -         -
AO                                -               157            -         -
SMS                              -                 22           -        12
Research Assistant                -                10            -         -
Farm Manager                      -                -             -         4
Assistant Director
of Agriculture                    -                -            22         -
DDA                               -                -             5         5
SSMS                             -                 -           12         -
STD                              -                 -            1         -
Soil Chemist                     -                 -             2        -               -
Director of Agriculture           -                -             -         -              4
Information Officer              -                 -            -         1               -
Director-General                  -                -             -         -              1
Sub-Total                          937              189           43        22              5
Less: granted in 1978              700              100            -         -              -
TOTAL                              237               89           42        22              5
Pest Scouting                       -                -            4          -
Supervising Construction            30               10            8         -              1
TOTAL VEHICLES                     267                99          54        22              6
Vehicle Purchase Phasing
1979-80        1980-81          1981-82          Total
Bicycles                           130            100              37              267
Motorcycles                         70             29              -                 99
4-WD                                52              2                               54
Pickups                             12              6               4                22
Cars                                 5              1                                 6
45



Table 3.7
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ M)
IDA Fiscal Year                                         Accumulated
and Semester               Disbursements             Disbursements
1980:  1st                       0.2                       0.2
2nd                      0.5                       0.7
1981:  1st                       1.5                       2.2
2nd                      1.8                       4.0
1982:  1st                       1.8                       5.8
2nd                      2.0                       7.8
1983:  1st                       0.7                      8.5
2nd                      0.2                       8.7
1984:  1st                       0.2                      8.9
2nd                      0.1                       9.0
46



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart of the Department of Agriculture
Secretary of Agriculture, Fisheries and Livestock
|Director of Aq,iCult.re |     |Di,ecto,-General ||Director of Aqr,c.lt:j |                 |Drel>
( ARI, Tando amn)             |IE.etensi.n)                       Engineering   l         l     D
I tHyderabed)                           S,skrand ,      and Marketmg                 Of ficar                               Research            O                            (Sukkurl
I  _  J                     Pholographe~~~~o  r   r    | rnll                   Rs(1|DDA                             |4         otcullult     EADA
,                          _                               l          l                      SSMS tl2} |        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nawabshah.   Shikarpur
EADAs inSukkur                                                                                                                    Khairpur
Thal ks    rHydr :;1   5   g  [  3                  ~~~~~~~~~~~Dist ct                                            RearhAitn  10|                   Larkana                            *acoDabad
EADAs        ODs          pp        orinsis
B.dii        angha,                                                                                                                                               a    9A /i5W
Tharparkar   _ 
DarJlr | Sf^S (91 |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AD 9         A(2 
| FA /2221 |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
World 1ank -19943
e,
I.



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      1982/83       1983/84
LAND ACQUISITION_
CONSTRUCTION OF STAFF HOUSING                                 .
CONSTRUCTION OF ARFS
COMMISSIONING SOILS LABORATORY
STAFF BUILDINGS
PURCHASING EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
CONSULTANTS IN FIELD                        _                                                 -
World Bank - 20328
OD



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Organization Chart
Buildings Department
|  Ch,ef Eng,neer  
Hveaa                                                              -ldead II
Eng-er                                                                Eng,ee,o                                                               En,e.,                                                                E Selr
.  Hyderabad I                                                           Hyd-rbad 11                                                              K.rach,                                                               Kharpur
Lat a tabad at Th att      Executive Efxecuti ve                          Executive              Executive              Executi Exie                                   Execut ive             Executive               Executive              Executive              Executive
Eutbd at T a               Enn e                  Engineer                Enieer                  Engineer               Engine r                Eng.iner               Engineer                  i                    Engineer               Engir Engineer
Ev t eura Engine-ad                             iuwbhl                   Hdrubc             Junhur at Rai              Mrpurk                   Khasrur                 Suk sr                LarkuanKrciKrah                                                         aah
2 Nv District Engineers                      2 No. District Engineers    2 No. District Engineers  2 No District Engineers                 2 Nv District Engineers                   2 No. District Engineers   2 No. District Engineers                      2 No. District Engineers
Engineers                                    Engineers                   Engineers                 Engineers                               Engineers                                 Engineers                  Engineers                                      Engineers
SuE-Engineers                                Sub-Engineers               Sub-Engineers             Sub-Engineers                           Sub-Engineers                             Sub-Engineers              Sub-Engineers                                  Sub-Engineers
Overseers                                     -verseers                  Overseers                 Overseers                                Dverseers                                Overseers                  Overseers                                      Overssers
Etc                                          Etc.                        Etc.                      Etc.                                    Etc.                                      Etc                        Etc.                                           Etc.
2 No. District Engineers                                                                                                                    2 No. District Engineers                                              2 No. District Engineers
Eng,ne.rs                                                              I                                                |                   Engineers                                                             Engineers
Sub-Engineers                                                                                                                               Sub- Engineers                                                        Sub-Engineers
Overseers                                                            DitrctrOverseer                                                                                                                              Overseers
Etc.                                                                                      EngEng rneer                                       Etc                                                                  EtE
|   strpurkhas                                 n. Sanghar
Engineers                                        Engineers
Sub-Engineers                                    Sub-Engineers
Overseers                                        Overseers
Etc.                                             Etc.
(D
|    Project                                                                                                                                                                                    World Bank - t9950B
I    District
vot



Table 5.1
PAXISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXSENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Recoumnended Package of Practices
Pesticides                Animal/
Fertilizer            Appli-                        Days or
Seed                pL       0 A               cations   Cost        Man/   Tractor/   Yield
Lb/Ac   .REs/Ac          N        2 5        Rs/Ac    (Nos.)    Rs/Ac      Days      Hours    (Md/Ac)
Wheat
Present Practice                           80         50         38         ill/        56       -          -        18        10         17
Package A                                   90 2/      55        50          20         79       -          -        20        11         20
Package B                                   9-/       60         75         40       127        _                   22        13         ;7
Package C                                 lo-i         66       100          60       175        -          -        24        16         40
Cotton
Present P ctice                             20          9         35          -         43       1         30        30        15         11
Package AS                                  25        11          30        10         46        2         60        35        17         15
Package B-2 52                                        1          40          20         67       3         90        45        19         20
Package Cl                                  25-       18          50         25         83       4        120        50        22         25
Rice (Transplanted)
Present Practice                            20          8        40          -         50        14/       40        26         9         25
Package A                                  202/         8        40          20        67                  45        28         9         33
Package B                                  20;-w      15          60         30       100        34-'      85        32        10         40
Package C                                   20-       15        100         40        158                  85        35        10         55
Sugarcane
Present Practice                        6,000        440          50          -         62       -          -        60        19        400
Package A                               6,000        440          70        40        121        1         40-/      64        20        600
Package B                               6,000        500-i      100         80-/      192        2         80-       68        21        750
Package C                               6,000        500-/      150        l005-      271        3        120-       73        21        950
Wheat (Dubarri)
Present Practice                           70         44          -          -          -        -          -        12         8          6
Package AZ7                                75         47          20        20         42        -          -        14         8          9
Package BE/                                80         50         20         20         42        -          -        16         8         12
Package  7  8/                             80-l       55         40         40         84        -          -        18         9         16
Rice (Mainly Broadcast At Present)
Present Practice                           8 091      30          -           -         -        -6/                 16         8         10
Package A                                  80-/       30          30         -         37        1         4         17         9         14
Package a                                   20lo   10            40         10         58        2         846       26         9         20
Package C                                   20-  1    15         40          20         67       2         80-       27        10         25
* Fertilizer prices as published on October 21, 1978.
1/  Estimated use in rabi 1978/79.
2/  Certified seed used.
3/ Proper timing of irrigation.
4/  One application in nursery, rest in field.  In field, granules used.
5/  Approximately half P205, half 1(20.
6/  Granular pesticides applied.
7/  Improving cultural practices and implements.
8/  One irrigation three weeks after planting.
9/  Crop broadcast.                                                                                                                    50
10/  Transplanted.



Table 5.2
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Rate of Adoption of Improved Practices - Five Districts
(% of cropped area)
Y  e  a  r
5         10        15         20         25
Wheat (Full Irrigation)
Package A                    25         40         40        40          35
Package B                    15         25         30        35          40
Package C                     -          5         15        20          25
Total Uptake                 40         70         85        95         100
Wheat (Dubarri)
Package A                    25         30         35        40          45
Package B                     5         10         15        20          25
Package C                     -          5         10        15          20
Total Uptake                 30         45         60        75          90
Cotton
Package A                    25         30         35        40          40
Package B                    10         20         25        30          35
Package C                     5         10         15        20          25
Total Uptake                 40         60         75        90         100
Rice
Package A                    25         35         40        40          35
Package B                    15         20         25        35          40
Package C                     0         10         15        20          25
Total Uptake                 40         65         80        95         100
Sugarcane
Package A                    30         35         40        45          45
Package B                      5        15         20        25          30
Package C                     -          5         10        15          20
Total Uptake                 35         55         70        85          95
51



Table 5.3
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Rate of Adoption of Improved Practices - Seven Districts
(% of cropped area)
Y e a r
5        10        15        20       25
Wheat (Full Irrigation)
Package A                          20        30       35        40        35
Package B                          10        15       20        25        30
Package C                           -         5       10        15        20
Total Uptake                       30        50       65        80        85
Wheat (Dubarri)
Package A                          20        30       30        35        35
Package B                           -         5       10        15        20
Package C                           -        -         5        10        15
Total Uptake                       20        35       45        60        70
Cotton
Package A                          25        30       35        40        40
Package B                           5        10       20        25        30
Package C                           -         5       10        10        15
Total Uptake                       30       45        65        75        85
Rice (Now Transplanted)
Package A                          20       30        35        40        40
Package B                          10       15        20        25        30
Package C                           -         5       10        15        20
Total Uptake                       30       50        65        80        95
Rice (Now Mainly Broadcast)
Package A                          20       25        25        30        30
Package B                           5       10        20        25        30
Package C                          _         -         5        10        15
Total Uptake                       25        35       50        65        75
Sugarcane
Package A                          25       30        35        40        35
Package B                          10       15        20        25        30
Package C                           -         5       10        15        20
Total Uptake                       35       50        65        80        85
52



Table 5.4
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Expected Average Yields of Major Crops
(maunds/ac)
Y e a r s
1979   1984    1989    1994    1999    2004
Five Intensive Districts
Wheat:  Fully Ijyigated      17    19.3    21.9    24.7    26.3    27.8
Dubarri-              6     7.0      8.0     9.0      9.9    10.9
Cotton                       11    13.6    15.4    16.8    18.1    19.3
Rice (Transplanted)          25    29.3    33.8    36.4    39.5    41.3
Sugarcane                   400   458.0   550.0   605.0   660.0   705.0
Seven Extensive Districts
Wheat:  Fully Ijyigated      17    18.6    20.6    22.4    24.2    25.7
Dubarri-             6      6.6     7.2     8.0      9.0      9.8
Cotton                       11    12.5    13.8    15.6    16.3    17.3
Rice:  Transplanid           25    28.1    31.1    33.8    36.5    37.5
Broadcast-            10    11.2    12.0    13.3    14.3    15.1
Sugarcane                   400   485.0   540.0   595.0   650.0   695.0
1/  Dubarri crops grow on residual moisture from kharif irrigation.
2/  Broadcast planted at present.  Extension activities will cause some
of the area to be transplanted.
53



ANNEX 3.1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
The Building Program
Introduction
1.        Under the project, housing and service buildings would be provided
for:
(a) the extension staff, to enable them to live within a con-
venient distance of their work site;
(b) service buildings in the districts;
(i) for staff training;
(ii) offices for staff with administrative duties;
(c) housing and service buildings for the adaptive research
farms, two of which would also have soil testing labora-
tories.
Present Situation
2.        At present, the Department of Agriculture owns very few dwelling
houses. Most of them are on the District Seed or Demonstration farms. Any
houses allocated to extension personnel deprive the staff of the farms from
accommodation near their own work. There is little or no staff housing at
the taluka level, and Field Assistants who are not posted to the district
farms have no Government-owned accommodation.
3.        According to Civil Service regulations, up to 10% may be deducted
from the gross salary of an official for house rent. However, this sum would
not pay for the rental of a privately owned house and therefore staff living
in rented houses are financially worse off than colleagues who are provided
with Government quarters.
4.        The FAs and their supervising AOs live, in most cases, away from
taluka headquarters and therefore their chances of finding houses to rent, be
it at a high price, are remote. Consequently, they are forced to seek accom-
modation with the bigger landlords. This necessarily obligates them to give
first attention to the host, whether for technical assistance or the loan
of equipment.
54



ANNEX 3.1
Page 2
Housing Standards
5.        Standards of Government quarters (particularly those relating to
the floor area of houses) have been traditionally high. To minimize the
cost of construction, GOSind has agreed to their reductions as follows:
NPS /a         Present         Proposed
-------(sq ft) 
17            1,500              900
5 to 9           606              560
/a   National Pay Scale.
GOSind has also agreed to have houses for Grade 9 officers constructed in
terraces up to four or six where feasible, and for Grade 17 officers in
terraces of two (semi-detached).
6.        Since under the project all the housing would be constructed in
the villages, the new buildings should blend with their surroundings, not only
to preserve the character of the villages, and also not to set the occupants
apart from the community by housing them in superior premises.
7.        To achieve this objective, a number of alternative solutions were
investigated with the following conclusions:
(a) Concrete Block: Rejected due to difficulties in obtain-
ing cement (much of which is imported) and the high cost
of its transportation.
(b) Precast Concrete: Rejected for the reasons stated under (a).
(c) Soil Cement Block: A technique developed and utilized by
Cooperative for American Relief Everywhere, Inc. (CARE) in
recent projects in Pakistan. This solution was rejected
on the advice of CARE which has stopped using the system
due to the difficulties and high cost of supervising manu-
facture, the high cost of cement and high maintenance costs.
(d) Mud Brick: Rejected due to the high cost of maintenance and
also the fact that although mud bricks currently cost Rs 60
per thousand, and burnt bricks Rs 200 per thousand, for
structural reasons two to three times as many mud bricks
are required as burnt bricks.
(e) Burnt Brick: Accepted as the best and cheapest solution:
the bricks are readily available; transportation is relatively
cheap, village contractors are familiar with its use; main-
tenance costs are low. Moreover, the cement content of the
buildings will be low.
55



ANNEX 3.1
Page 3
Specifications
8.        Houses for Grade 9 officers would be of "low cost housing" standard
with few internal finishes or fittings, but where possible would be provided
with basic electricity and water outlets. Houses for Grade 17 officers would
be of a similar standard to those for Grade 9 but with better amenities.
Offices would be of simple brick construction plastered and painted internally.
Common lavatories only would be provided and door height partitions would be
used to subdivide office rooms. Drainage would be by means of septic tanks
and absorption pits.
9.        Service buildings would also be constructed of burnt bricks.
Extension Staff Housing
10.       The provision of accommodation is intended to overcome the housing
shortage, to free the staff from any direct or implied obligation to the big
landlords with whom they reside at present and to provide them with the incen-
tive of good housing commensurate with their family obligations under the
terms set in the Public Service rules. Numbers required, and proposed con-
struction phasing is in Annex 3.3, Table 1.
Service Buildings in the Districts
11.       Staff Training Centers. The fortnightly, one-day FA training meet-
ings are expected to be conducted mostly in the field; nevertheless an assembly
point is needed, and a place where visual aid material and literature for dis-
tribution can be stored. Also, the preseason training sessions for all staff
that are likely to be of longer duration, need a base. Therefore, under the
project, it is proposed to provide a suitable building in each of the ADA
complexes, i.e. 15 in all, three in each of the five project districts.
12.       To assist in the decentralization of agricultural administration
in the project area, 15 sets of subdivisional office buildings would be built.
The office at present used by the EADA would remain the office for the district
DDA and his staff and therefore none is provided under the project.
Adaptive Research Farms (ARF)
13.       Four ARFs would be provided, two of which would have soil testing
laboratories. There would be housing on the farms for all staff based there;
laborers would be recruited from the nearby areas and therefore would not
require housing. Farm buildings, offices and stores are also required.
14.       Estimated Costs.  Base costs are expressed in estimated prices as
of July 1, 1979. Cost of civil works are derived from recent contracts using
burnt brick construction. The cost estimates reflect planned maximum utiliza-
tion of local building materials and use of economic standards in the design
of the proposed buildings. Furniture and equipment costs are based on prices
obtained from local agents and/or manufacturers. The numbers of buildings
56



ANNEX 3.1
Page 4
to be erected in each district, and their district-wise phasing are given in
Table 1. Costs are summarized in Annex 3.3. Physical contingencies amounting
to 10% of base cost have been added to the construction cost estimates.
Construction Si-ervision
15.       Design and construction supervision of the buildings and associated
site development would be the responsibility of the Building Section GOSind's
Communications and Works Department. Implementation of the project by the
Building Section as presently structured would mean subdividing the project
into three parts each controlled by a Departmental Head (Figure 1), thus
making planning, design and accounting operations difficult and cumbersome
since only the Chief Engineer would have overall control of the project.
To aid implementation in accordance with the proposed implementation schedule
(Figure 3.2) and to ensure that adequate staff is allocated at all times,
a Project Coordinator would be appointed to the office of the Chief Engineeer,
whose exclusive duty would be the supervision and expediting of project works.
The Department already has branch offices throughout the interior.
Civil Works Procurement
16.       Construction contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally. Foreign contractors are not expected to partici-
pate in bidding since construction contract values would vary only from about
Rs 60,000 for a single FA's house to about Rs 2.30 million for an ARF complex
with soils laboratory.
Phasing
17.       The new facilities would be provided in three phases.  Buildings
within each phase have been selected on the basis of obtaining as wide a
geographical spread as possible in order to make the best use of limited
local expertise and to reduce costs by maximizing competition.
18.       To ensure commencement of construction in accordance with the pro-
posed implementation schedule it is essential that sites for Phase I be iden-
tified prior to March 31, 1979 and purchased before December 31, 1979 and
sites for Phases II and III identified by March 31, 1980 and purchased by
August 31, 1980.
Maintenance
19.       Maintenance has been estimated at 2-1/2% of the cost of construc-
tion at the time the maintenance will be undertaken. It has been assumed
that maintenance of buildings completed in one year would be commenced at the
beginning of the following year.
20.       Buildings will not require replacement during the life of the
project.
57



ANNEX 3.2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Cotton Pest Scouting
The Problem of Cotton in the Sind Province
1.        Cotton is one of Pakistan's principal foreign exchange earners.
It is grown on 16% of the cropped area of the Sind. Yields are always low
and in adverse years drop to quite unacceptable levels (Table 2.2). Conse-
quently, no agricultural program would be fully effective, and no program
would ensure the support of farmers who grow cotton, that did not address
the problems of the crop as a matter of high priority.
2.        While insect pest incidence is undoubtedly a major limiting factor
to cotton yields, the fact that even in good years yield levels are low is
due to two principal causes:
(a) the generally poor varieties; the varieties grown are
adapted to poor husbandry practices and minimal pest
control and do not respond well when agronomic standards
are raised;
(b) poor cultural practices, which result in low plant popula-
tions under other than completely favorable soil and cli-
matic conditions.
3.        The matter of variety improvement is a longer-term program, which
is being undertaken by ARI in Tando Jam on the provincial level and, as soon
as it is fully established, by the Cotton Research Institute in Sakrand
(Chapter II).
4.        Poor cultural practices are to a large extent due to inadequate
farm power, to the inadequate animal-drawn implements; also farmers frequently
select the wrong tractor implement for land preparation. An agricultural
credit project at present under consideration by IDA aims to introduce suit-
able tractor-drawn implements and provide technical assistance towards teach-
ing their proper use. Adequate animal-drawn implements are more difficult to
provide because of the low power output of oxen, but more suitable techniques,
such as growing the crop on ridges, would be possible.
5.        To prepare the ground for the profitable introduction of the new
varieties when they are developed, the objectives of the extension service
must be to maximize yields of the existing varieties by improving cultural
practices and also, very importantly, by introducing and operating in a
routine manner an effective pest control system.
58



ANNEX 3.2
Page 2
Cotton Pest Control
6.        Technical Criteria.  The limited kill of insects and relatively
small areas sprayed under Government auspices, be it aerial spraying or ground
control under the direct supervision of staff of the Department of Agriculture,
leads to the conclusion that the actual killing of insects must devolve on the
farmers themselves. The Department of Agriculture's duties should be confined
to:
(a) ensure that the farmers have ready access to effective
spraying equipment and the right chemical, in the right
formulation;
(b) demonstrate the proper use of equipment and the right
and safe way of handling the chemicals;
(c) advise farmers of the best time to spray.
7.        The provision of the right kind of spray equipment and chemicals
is a function of GOP's and GOSind's standardization procedures. The recom-
mended equipment and methods of standardization is described in a separate
document. 1/ Suitable equipment should be locally manufactured, under
strict quality control and, if necessary, under licensing arrangements with
foreign firms. Chemicals to be used are being adequately tested at present
and testing arrangements will soon imprDve further under a UK-Pakistan
Technical Cooperation Project that will provide a Pesticide Application
Laboratory in Multan. However, for the efficient use of pesticides and to
obtain the maximum crop that the combination of the genetic potential of the
variety and good cultural practices allow, the correct time of spraying must
be determined. This would be achieved by scientifically conducted pest
scouting.
8.        The principal cotton pests in the Sind are jassids in the early
stages of the crops' life and the pink and spotted bollworm at flowering
time. Jassid populations would be estimated by counting nymphs on 20 randomly
selected plants, on two leaves. The counting should be done within one hour
of sunrise. Spotted bollworm populations would be determined by searching
for egg masses. This may be difficult and, therefore, scouting must also
look for larvae. Pink bollworm population levels would be established by
pheromone trapping of male moths.
9.        The following threshold levels would serve as a first guideline,
subject to refinement by subsequent investigations, as to when spraying
should commence:
1/   Pesticide Application Equipment with special reference to Cotton After
Dr. G. A. Matthews (1978).
59



ANNEX 3.2
Page 3
(a) Jassids: an average of 3-5 nymphs per leaf;
(b) Spotted Bollworm: only small larvae can be controlled
and, therefore, if one larva of about 4 mm is found in
1 sq m area, spraying must take place;
(c) Pink Bollworm: if 8-10 adult males are trapped overnight,
spraying is necessary.
The above infestation threshold levels are influenced by the expected yields
as well as by their occurrence in combination with other insects. Scouting
and the establishing of economically justifiable threshold levels requires
constant surveillance.
10.       The Cotton Pest Control Organization - Operating Style.  It has
been stated (para 6) that spraying would be organized by the farmer since
all other alternatives are uneconomical and ineffective. The farmers would
be taught scouting for jassids and spotted bollworm by the FAs who, at the
appropriate time of the year, would make the demonstration and supervision
of scouting their impact point. In their turn, the FAs would themselves be
taught scouting in the fortnightly training sessions.
11.       Scouting for the pink bollworm requires a more sophisticated
organization. It would be done by a Pest Scout, whose task would be to set
the traps in the evening and count the moths caught early the next morning.
He would arrange to contact each FA in his area every day and inform him of
the catches in the traps. The FA would, in the afternoon, visit each of his
eight areas where moth counts were either critical or near critical and, after
being advised of other insects found by the farmers themselves, would use his
judgment whether to recommend immediate spraying. During the period of risk
from bollworm attack the afternoon or evening meetings in the villages would
be cancelled and the FAs time spent in the manner described.
12.       The Cotton Pest Control Organization - Operation and Management.
In Nawabshah district, which is the pilot area for the pest scouting component,
there would be four scouts. They would be graduates in agriculture or ento-
mology, typically at the beginning of their career. Operationally, they would
report to the district SMS (Plant Protection) who, in matters connected with
pest scouting, would report to the SSMSs based in Oderolal. The SSMS would
maintain constant contact with the Cotton Research Institute in Sakrand. The
Chief Entomologist in the Institute would maintain technical control of the
organization.
13.       Regarding transport, each Pest Scout would have a 4 WD vehicle,
to enable him to transport insect traps and other material. The SSMS have
4-WD vehicles and, therefore, the necessary mobility.
14.       When not engaged in pest scouting for cotton, i.e., for about
five months in the year, the Pest Scouts would work under the direct
guidance of the Sub-Divisional ADA, who may use them for additional closer
supervision of the FAs or to assist with any other function of the Department.
60



ANNEX 3.3
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Detailed Cost Estimates
Tables
1 - Phasing of Buildings By District
2 - Land Acquisition Cost
3 - Buildings and Civil Works - Unit Cost of Construction
4 - Buildings and Civil Works - Unit Cost of Site Development
5 - Buildings and Civil Works Costs - Engineering and Administration
6 - Buildings and Civil Works - Total Costs
7 - Furniture Cost
8 - Office Equipment for ARF Complexes, Soils Laboratories,
Training Centers & ADA Offices
9 - Information and Training Equipment - Unit Costs
10 - Information and Training Equipment - Total Costs
11 - Equipment for Soils Laboratory
12 - Equipment for Adaptive Research Farms
13 - Equipment and Transport - Vehicle Requirements
14 - Equipment and Transport - Unit Costs of Vehicles
15 - Equipment and Transport - Cost of Vehicles for Extension Service,
Pest Scouting, and Engineering and Administration
16 - Grades and Pay Scales of Staff Effective from 1st May 1977
17 - Present and Future Staff Numbers
18 - Incremental Staff Salaries
19 - Incremental Staff Allowances
20 - Incremental Operating Costs of Transport Vehicles
21 - Operating Costs of Adaptive Research Farms
22 - Maintenance of Buildings
23 - The Pest Scouting Component
24 - Technical Assistance Component for Financing by GOP
25 - Budget Covering UNDP Contribution
26 - Annual Schedule of Expenditures
61



ANNEX 3.3
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Phasing of Buildings By District
Buildings Become Operational
District                           Year 2    Year 3      Year 4      Total
Hyderabad
FA Houses                                 42         42          42        126
AO Houses                                  3          3           3           9
ADA Offices                                1          1           1           3
Training Centers                           1          1           1           3
ARF Complex                               -           1          -            1
ARF Complex with soils laboratory          1         -           -            1
Sub-total
Sanghar
FA Houses                                 32         32          32         96
AO Houses                                  3          2           2           7
ADA Offices                                1          1           1           3
Training Centers                           1          1           1          3
Sub-total
Nawabshah
FA Houses                                 44         44          44        132
AO Houses                                  3          3           3           9
ADA Offices                                1          1           1           3
Training Centers                           1          1           1          3
ARF Complex                               -          -            1           1
Sub-total
Sukkur
FA houses                                 42         42          42        126
AO Houses                                  3          3           3           9
ADA Offices                                1          1           1           3
Training Centers                           1          1           1           3
ARF Complex with soils laboratory         -           1          -          -
Sub-total
Larkana
FA Houses                                 38         38          38        114
AO Houses                                  3          3           2           8
ADA Offices                                1          1           1           3
Training Centers                           1          1           1           3
Sub-total
62



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Land Acquisition Cost
Building         Plot                        Unit          Cost per           No. of         Total
Building                  Area           Area           Unit         Cost            Plot             Plots          Cost
(Sq. ft.)                                    (Rs)          (Rs'000)                          (Rs M)
FA House & Office             610          1,500          Sq. ft.         0.21          0.32             564            0.18
AO House & Office           1,000          2,500          Sq. ft.         0.21           0.53             42            0.02
ADA Complex                 2,260         11,300          Sq. ft.         0.21           2.37             15            0.03
ARF                        16,200              50         Acre        8,500.00        425.00               1            0.43
Total Base Cost                                                                                          622            0.66
Physical Contin-
gency 10%                                                                                               -             0.07
Total Base Cost including
Physical Contingency                                                                                   669            0.73
Price Escalation                                                                                          -             0.09
Estimated Total Cost                                                                                     669            0.82
0  :0
XM



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Buildings and Civil Works - Unit Cost of Construction
Building                      Area              (Rs/Sq ft)     Foreign       Local       Total
(Sq ft)                                      (Rs '000)----------
FA:  House and                         560
Office                             50          610          75            6.86        38.89      45.75
AO:  House and                         900
Office                            100        1,000          85           12.75        72.25      85.00
ADA Complex
Offices                                         1,200          95           17.10        96.90     114.00
Training Center                                    500         85            6.38        36.12      42.50
FA House                                           560         75            6.30        35.70      42.00
ARF Complex
Offices                                         3,000          95           42.75       242.25     285.00
Soils Laboratory                                1,000         150           37.50       112.50     150.00
Vehicle and Cattle Shed                         1,050          75           11.81        66.94       78.75
Chief Chemists's House                          1,250         115           21.56       122.19     143.75
Assistant Chemist's House                          900         85           11.48        65.02       76.50
Farm Manager's House                               900         85           11.48        65.02      76.50
SSMS' House                                     1,250         115           21.56       122.19     143.75
ARA's House                                        900         85           11.48        65.02       76.50
Laboratory Assistant's House                       560         75            6.30        35.70       42.00
Tractor Driver's House                             560         75            6.30        35.70       42.00
FA's House                                         560         75            6.30        35.70       42.00               t
a LA



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Buildings and Civil Works - Unit Cost of Site Development
Unit Costs
(Rs '000)
Court-                                        Foot-
yard    Site                       Elec-    paths    Total
and   Clear-   Water   Sewage   trical    and          Unit        Of Which
Building                      Wall     ance  Supply  Disposal  Supply   Roads         Cost   Foreign    Local
FA House and Office                   4.00      0.92   2.75      3.20      1.37      2.29    14.53       2.18     12.35
AO House and Office                   8.00      1.70   5.10      5.95      2.55      4.25    27.55       4.13      23.42
ADA Complex
Offices                             -        2.28   6.84      7.98      3.42      5.70    26.22      3.93      22.29
Training Center                     -        0.85   2.55      2.98      1.28      2.13      9.79     1.47       8.32
FA House                           4.00      0.84   2.52      2.94      1.26      2.10    13.66      2.05      11.61
ARF Complex
Officers                            -        5.70  17.10    19.95       8.55    14.25    65.55       9.83      55.72
Soils Laboratory                    _        3.00   9.00    10.50       4.50      7.50    34.50      5.18      29.32
Vehicle and Cattle Shed             -        1.58   4.73      5.50      2.36      3.94    18.11      2.72      15.39
Chief Chemist's House              10.00    2.88   8.63    10.06        4.31      7.19    33.07      4.96      28.11
Assistant Chemistts House           8.00    1.53   4.59       5.36      2.30      3.83    25.61      3.84      21.77
Farm Manager's House                8.00    1.53   4.59       5.36      2.30      3.83    25.61      3.84      21.77
SSMS's House                       10.00    2.88   8.63    10.06        4.31      7.19    33.07      4.96      28.11
ARA's House                         8.00    1.53   4.59       5.36      2.30      3.83    25.61      3.84      21.77
Laboratory Assistant's House        4.00    0.84   2.52       2.94      1.26      2.10    13.66      2.05      11.61
Tractor Driver's House              4.00    0.84   2.52       2.94      1.26      2.10    13.66      2.05      11.61
FA's House                          4.00    0.84   2.52       2.94      1.26      2.10    13.66      2.05      11.61
a%
Un



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Buildings and Civil Works Costs - Engineering and Administration
(Rs M)
Total
Foreign      Foreign                        Duties &      including
Exchange    Exchange    Local    Total        Taxes      Duties & Taxes
Technical Staff                                                    -         2.50      2.50        -             2.50
Support Staff                                         -            -         1.50      1.50        -             1.50
Telephones & Electricity                             0.20           50       0.20      0.40        -             0.40
Supplies                                             0.02          25        0.06      0.08        -             0.08
Reproduction                                         0.05           50       0.05      0.10        -             0.10
Office Rents                                          -            -         0.20      0.20        -             0.20
Furniture                                            0.04           20       0.16      0.20        -             0.20
Office Equipment                                     0.05          83        0.01      0.06       0.03           0.09
Running & Maintenance of Vehicles                    0.75          75        0.25      1.00        -             1.00
Total Base Cost                                      1.11          18        4.93      6.04       0.03           6.07
Physical Contingency 5%                              0.06          19        0.25      0.31       0.00           0.31
Total Base Cost including
Physical Contingency                               1.17          18        5.18      6.35      0.03            6.38
I M
{D >
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Buildings and Civil Works - Total Costs
Unit Costi/    1979-80         1980-81       1981-82        1982-83       1983-84        Total
(Rs)        No. (Rs M)  No. (Rs M)    No. (Rs M)   No. (Rs M)   No. (Rs M)   No. (Rs M)
Staff Housing
FA House & Offices                  60,280          .         198    11.93   198   11.93  198   11.94                    594  35.80
AO House & Offices                 112,550                     15      1.69    14    1.58   13    1.46                    42   4.73
Subtotal                                           213    13.62   212   13.51  211   13.40                    636  40.53
ARF Complexes                      1,908,280                       1     1.91      2    3.81    1    1.91                     4   7.63
Soils Laboratory & Housing           519,000                      1      0.52      1    0.52                                 2   1.04
Training & Other Buildings
Training Centers                    52,290                      1      0.05      1    0.06    1    0.05                    3   0.16
Dormitory Block                    200,000                      1      0.20                                                1   0.20
ADA Offices                        140,220                      1      0.14      1    0.14    1    0.14                    3   0.42
Subtotal                                                    0.39           0.20           0.19                       0.78
Basic Cost Total                                                      16.44          18.04          15.50                     49.98
Engineering & Administration (Table 5)                                   2.12            2.12          2.11                       6.35
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                             1.64            1.81          1.55                       5.00
Price Escalation                                                         4.46            7.54          9.15                      21.15
Grant Total                                                24.66          29.51          28.31                     82.48
1/  Includes costs of building construction (Table 3) and site development (Table 4).
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~D



ANNEX 3.3
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
SINM AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Furniture Cost
Unit Coses                                                     Total Costs
(Rs '000)                                                       (Rs  000)
Cost                Build- Direct Indirect Total                                  Direct  Indirect  Total           Total
per  Unit  Room   ing   F. E.    F. E.  F. E. Local                  Total       F. E.      F. E.   F. E.  F.E.  Local
Building             No.  Item   Cost  Cost  Cost   Cost        Cost   Cost   Cost         No.   Cost   7  Cost         Cost    Cost   7.   Cost
FA Office
Desk (4' x 2')            1   0.60   0.60
Chair                     3   0.06   0.18   0.78    0.78    -       0.16    0.16    0.62      564  439.92   35     -        90.24   90.24   20   349.68
AA Office
Desk (5' x 2'6")          1   0.85   0.85
Chair                     3   0.06   0.18
Bench                     1   0.20   0.20   1.23    1.23    _       0.25   0.25   0.98         84  103.32    8    _         21.00   21.00   20    82.32
ADA Office
ADA
Desk (5' x 2'6")          1   0.85   0.85
Chair                     4   0.10   0.40
Cupboard                  1   0.50   0.50
Bookshelf                 1   0.20   0.20   1.95
S teno
Desk                      1   0.80   0.80
Chair                     1   0.60   0.60
Filing Cabinet            1   1.00   1.00
Bookshelf                 1   0.20   0.20   2.60
SMS
Desk (5' x 2'6")          1   0.85   0.85
Chair                     2   0.06   0.12
Bookshelf                 1   0.20   0.20   1.17
2 No. Clerks
Desk (4' x 2')           2   0.60   1.20
Chair                     2   0.06   0.12   1.32
AA
Desk (5' x 2'6")          1   0.85   0.85
Chair                     3   0.06   0.18
Bench                     1   0.20   0.20   1.23
2 No. FAs
Desk (4' x 2')           2   0.60   1.20
Chair   .                 6   0.06   0.36   1.56    9.83    -       1.97    1.97    7.86       15  147.45   12    -         29.55    29.55    20   117.90
Training Center
Table                     1   0.50   0.50
Chair                     1   0.10  0.10
Blackboard                1   0.20   0.20
Chair with Writing Board  20   0.12   2.40
Cupb.ard                  2   0.50   1.00   4.20    4.20    -       0.84    0.84   3.36        15   63.00    5    -         12.60    12.60   20    50.40
DDA Conplex                      Allow. for addl. say 6.00    -       l.20   1.20    4.80         5   30.00    3    -         6.00     6.00   20    24.00
ARF Office
4 No. SSMS
Desk (5' x 2'6")         4   0.85   3.40
Chair                    16   0.10   1.60
Cupboard                  4   0.50   2.00
Bookshelf                 4   0.20   0.80   7.80
Farm Manacer
Desk (5' x 2'6")          1   0.85   0.85
Chair                     3   0.06   0.18
Cupboard                  1   0.50   0.50   1.53
2 No. ARAs
Desk (5' x 2'6")          2   0.85   1.70
Chair                     6   0.06   0.36
Filing Cabinet            2   1.00   2.00
Bookshelf                 2   0.20   0.40   4.46
3 No. FAs
Desk (4' x 2')            3   0.60   1.80
Chair                     9   0.06   0.54   2.34
4 No. Support
Desk (4' x 2')            4   0.60  2.40
Chair                     4   0.06   0.24
Filing Cabinet            2   1.00   2.00
Cupboard                  2   0.50   1.00
Bookshelf                 2   0.20   0.40   6.04   22.17    -       4.43    4.43   17.74        5  110.85    -    -         22.17    20.17    20    88.68
68



ANNEX 3.3
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
PAMISTAN
SIND AGRICULTUIRAL EzNSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Furniture Cost
Unit Costs                                                               Total Costs
(Rs '000)                                                               (Rs '000)
Cost                  Build-  Direct  Indirect  Total                                        Direct  Indirect   Total         Total
per   Unit  Room    in4    F. E.        F. E.   F. E.  local                  Total        F. B.      F. E.    F.E.   F.E.  Local
Building               NO.   Item   Cost   Cost   Cosc    Cost        Cost    Cost   Cost          L-        Cost    %   Cost       Cost      Cost    %    Cost
Laboratory & Offices
Chief Chemist
Desk (5' x 2'6")             1    0.85   0.85
Chair                        4    0.10   0.40
Cupboard                     1    0.50   0.50
Bookshelf                    1    0.20   0.20   1.95
2 No. Assistant Chemist
Desk ( 4' x 2')              2    0.60   1.20
Chair                        6    0.06   0.36
Cupboard                     2    0.50   1.00   2.56
Steno
Desk                         1    0.80   0.80
Chair                        1    0.60   0.60
Filing Cabinet               1    1.00   1.00
Bookshelf                    1    0.20   0.20
Stool                        6    0.05   0.30   2.90    7.41       -        1.48    1.48    5.93         2       14.82   -       -        2.96     2.96   20      11.86
Management Unit
Director General
Desk (6' x 4')               1    1.50   1.50
Chair                        6    0.10   0.60
Table                        1    0.50   0.50
Filing Cabinet               1    1.00   1.00
Bookshelf                    1    0.20   0.20   3.80
2 No. Steno
Desk                         2    0.80   1.60
Chair                        2    0.60   1.20
Filing Cabinet               4    1.00   4.00
Bookshelf                    2    0.20   0.40   7.20
Assistant & Peon
Desk (4' x 2')               2    0.60   1.20
Chair                        4    0.06   0.24
Cupboard                     2    0.50   1.00   2.44
2 No. SSMS
Desk (5' x 2'6")             2    0.85   1.70
Chair                        8    0.10   0.80
Cupboard                     2    0.50   1.00
Bookshelf                    2    0.20   0.40   3.90
Information, Publicity &
2 No. Translators
Desk (5' x 2'6")             4    0.85   3.40
Chair                       12    0.06   0.72
Cupboard                     2    0.50   1.00
Filing Cabinet               2    1.00   2.00
Bookshelf                    4    0.20   0.80   7.92   25.26       -       5.05    5.05   20.21          1      25.26    2             5.05      5.05     20    20.21
Total Base Cost                                                                                                  934.62   76       -   189.57   189.57      20   745.05
Physical Contingency 5%                                                                                    -      46.73    4       :      9.48     9.48     20    37.25
Total Base Cost including
Physical Contingency                                                                                     -     981.35   80       -   199.05   199.05      20   782.30
Price Escalation                                                                                           -     250.00   20       -    50.00    50.00       20   200.00
Estimated Total Cost                                                                                           1.231.35  100       -   249.05   249.05      20   982.30
69



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Office Equipment
For ARF Complexes, Soils Laboratories,Training Centers & ADA Offices
(Rs '000)
Local        Local                 Unit Cost of
Foreign     Agents'    Handling &    Unit        Duties and
Equipment                (C.I.F.)    Mark Up    Transport        Cost         Taxes
Typewriter                     5.00         0.75         0.02        5.77          2.70
Calculator                     0.60         0.09         0.01       0.70           0.41
Total Costs
(Rs '000)
Total
Duties and       Including
No.      Foriegn      Local    Total        Taxes        Duties & Taxes
Typewriter                        23         115.00      17.71   132.71        62.10          194.81
Calculator                        19          11.40       1.90    13.30         7.79           21.09
Total Base Cost                              126.40     19.61   146.01         69.89          215.90
Physical Contingency 5%                        6.32       0.98     7.30          -              7.30
Total Base Cost including
Physical Contingency                       132.72     20.59   153.31         69.89          223.20
Price Escalation _/                           18.00       7.00    25.00          -             25.00
Estimated Total Cost                         150.72      27.59   178.31        69.89          248.20
.
1/ Assuming purchase in 1979-80 and first half of 1980-81.



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Information and Training Equipment
Unit Costs
(Rs '000)
Local         Local
Equipment                        Foreign       Agents'    Handling &                Duties and
(C.I.F.)     Markup      Transport    Total         Taxes
Information
Camera                                    2.00        0.28         0.02        2.30         2.44
Cine Camera                               2.00        0.28         0.02        2.30         2.44
Slide Projector                          1.00         0.14         0.02        1.16         1.22
Cine Projector                            2.00        0.28         0.02        2.30         2.44
Sundries (Cassettes,
Storage Boxes, etc.)                   1.00         0.14         0.02        1.16         1.22
Typewriter                                5.00        0.75         0.02        5.77         2.70
Cyclostyling Equipment                    5.00        0.75         0.02        5.77         2.70
Training
Camera                                    2.00        0.28         0.02        2.30         2.44
Slide Projector                          1.00         0.14         0.02        1.16         1.22
Sundries (Storage Boxes,
etc.)                  1.00         0.14         0.02        1.16         1.22
Typewriter                                5.00        0.75         0.02        5.77         2 70
Cyclostyling Equipment                    5.00        0.75         0.02        5.77         2.70
Pz 
m 



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Information and Training Equipment
Total Costs
(Rs '000)
Total
Duties and       Including
Equipment                         No.    Foreign    Local    Total         Taxes        Duties & Taxes
Information
Camera                                  1       2.00       0.30      2.30        2.44            4.74
Cine Camera                             1       2.00       0.30      2.30        2.44            4.74
Slide Projector                         1       1.00       0.16      1.16        1.22            2.38
Cine Projector                          1       2.00       0.30      2.30        2.44            4.74
Sundries (Cassettes,
Storage Boxes, etc.)                 1        1.00       0.16      1.16        1.22            2.38
Typewriter                              2      10.00       1.54    11.54         5.40           16.94
Cyclostyling Equipment                  1       5.00       0.77      5.77        2.70            8.47
Total Base Cost                                23.00       3.53    26.53        17.86           44.39
Physical Contingency 5%                         1.15       1.15      1.33         -              1.33
Total Base Cost Including
Physical Contingency                         24.15       3.71    27.86        17.86           45.72
Price Escalation                                1.57       0.43      2.00         -              2.00
Estimated Total Cost                           25.72       4.14    29.86        17.86           47.72
Training
Camera                                10       20.00       3.00    23.00        24.40           47.40
Slide Projector                                 5.00       0.80      5.80        6.10           11.90
Sundries (Storage Boxes, etc.)                  5.00       0.80      5.80        6.10           11.90
Typewriter                                     50.00       7.70    57.70        27.00           84.70       3
Cyclostyling Equipment                         25.00       3.85    28.85        13.50           42.35
Total Base Cost                               105.00      16.15   121.15        77.10          198.25
Physical Contingency 5%                         5.25       0.81      6.06         -              6.06      cw
Total Base Cost Including
Physical Contingency                        110.25      16.96   127.21        77.10          204.31
Price Escalation                                6.66       2.34      9.00         -              9.00
Estimated Total Cost                          116.91      19.30   136.21        77.10          213.31



ANNEX 3.3
Table 11
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Equipment for Soils Laboratory
Unit      1980/81           1982/83          Total
Cost    No.  (Rs'000)   No.  (Rs'000)   No.  (Rs'000)
Rs
Flame Photometer                   48,000      1       48        1       48       2       96
Compressor for Above                 3,000     1        3        1        3       2        6
pH Meter                             8,000      1       8        1        8       2       16
Conductivity Bridge                 8,000      1        8        1        8       2       16
Centrifuge                         30,000      1       30        1       30       2       60
Soil Crusher                       17,000      1       17        1      17        2       54
Balances:  Triple Beam                 600)    1                 1                2
Analytical              30,000)    1       42        1       42       2       84
Top-Loading Bulk       12,000)    1                  1                2
Oven:  Large                       27,000      1       27        1       27       2       54
Small                        7,000      1       7        1        7        2      14
Furnace                              5,000     1        5        1        5       2       10
Compressor (Large Flow)              4,000     1        4        1        4       2        8
Pressure Extractor                   9,000      2      18        2       18       4       36
Vaccum Pump                        12,000      1       12        1       12       2       24
Shaker - Equipoise Type              9,000     1        9        1        9       2       18
Sieves:  8 in                          600)    2        6        2        6       4       12
3 in                       2,400)
Shaker                              4,000      1        4        1        4       2        8
Settling Volume Rack and Cones   18,000        1       18        1      18        2       36
Hydraulic Conductivity Rack         24,000     1       24        1       24       2       48
Colorimeter                         8,400      1        8        1        8       2       16
Support Items                      25,000      1       25        1       25       2       50
Chemicals and Glassware             60,000     1       59        1       59       2      108
Total                                               382              382               764
Of Which - Foreign Cost                             325              325               650
- Local Cost                               57                57              114
Contingency 7%                                       27               27                54
Price Escalation                                     99              206               305
Duties and Taxes                                    260               260              520
TOTAL                                          768              875            1,643
OF WHICH - FOREIGN                             932              523               955
LOCAL                              336              352               688
73



ANNEX 3.3
PAKISTAN                                Table 12
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Equipment for Adaptive Research Farms
Unit      1980/81           1981/82         Total
Cost    No.  (Rs'000)   No. (Rs'000)    (Rs'000)
(Rs)
Tractor (55 HP)                    80,000      2       160      2      160          320
Implements
3F Plough                        12,000      2        24      2       24           48
Disk Harrow                       9,000      2        18      2       18           36
Cultivator                        5,000      2       10       2       10           20
Chisel Plough                     9,000      2       18       2       18           36
Lister                            7,000      2        14      2       14           28
Leveler                           5,000      2        10      2       10           20
Combine Drill                    15,000      2       30       2       30           60
Trailer                           5,000      2        10      2       10           20
Tractor (10 HP)                    15,000      2        30      2       30           60
Implements                          5,000      2        10      2       10           20
Thresher
Large                            10,000      2        20      2       20           20
Plot Thresher                     2,000      2        4       2        4            8
Oxen (Pair)                        10,000      2        20      2       20           40
Implements                          5,000      2        10      2       10           20
Sprayers
Power                             5,000      2        10      2       10           20
Hand                                500      6         3      6        3            6
Sundries                              LS       2        10      2       10           20
Total                                               411              411          822
Of Which - Foreign Cost                             329              329          658
Local Cost                                82              82          164
Contingency  5% 1/                                      21              21           42
Price Escalation-                                      105             159          264
Duties and Taxes                                        41              41           82
TOTAL                                           518             632        1,210
OF WHICH - FOREIGN                              430             473          903
LOCAL                               148              159         307
1/ 12% in 1979-80, 11% in 1980-81, 10% in 1981-82.
74



ANNEX 3.3
Table 13
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Equipment and Transport - Vehicle Requirements
Bicycles      Motorcycles    4-WD    Pickups    Saloon cars
Extension Service
FA (Extension)                  922
FAs or ARFs                      15               -           -         -              -
AO                               -               157          -         -              -
SMS                             -                 22          -        12              -
Research Assistant               -                10          -         -              -
Farm Manager                     -                            - -       4              -
Assistant Director
of Agriculture                   -                -           22        -              -
DDA                              _                             5        5
SSMS                            -                -           12         -              -
STD                             -                 -           1         -              -
Soil Chemist                    -                 -           2         -              -
Director of Agriculture          -                -            -        -              4
Information Officer             -                -            -         1              -
Director-General                 -                -           -         -              1
Sub-Total                         937              189          43       22              5
Less: granted in 1978             700              100           -        -              -
TOTAL                             237               89          42       22              5
Pest Scoutin                       -                -           4         -              -
Construction Eng. & Admin.         30               10           8        -              1
TOTAL VEHICLES                    267               99          54       22              6
Vehicle Purchase Phasing
1979-80        1980-81         1981-82          Total
Bicycles                          130            100             37              267
Motorcycles                        70             29             -                99
4-WD                               52              2                              54
Pickups                            12              6              4               22
Cars                                5              1                               6
75



ANNEX 3.3
Table 14
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Equipment and Transport - Unit Costs of Vehicles
(Rs '000)
Subtotal:
cif or      Local  l
Foreign  Local  ex-factory  Handling-   Total
Bicycle                  0.33    0.32       0.65       0.02       0.67
Motorcycle               3.90    0.00       3.90        1.60      5.50
Four-wheel-drive
Vehicle               45.00    0.00      45.00      18.00      63.00
Pickup Truck            45.00    0.00      45.00      18.00      63.00
Saloon Car              36.00    0.00      36.00      20.00      56.00
1/ Includes agent's markups as follows:           Rs '000
Motorcycle                      1.55
Four-wheel drive vehicle       17.00
Pickup truck                   17.00
Saloon Car                     19.00
76



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Equipment and Transport - Cost of Vehicles
For Extension Service, Pest Scouting, and Engineering and Administration
Total In-
Duties cluding
1/                                                              and   Duties &
Unit Costs-      1979-80        1980-81       1981-82         Total       Taxes   Taxes
(Rs)      No.  (Rs M)   No.  (Rs M)  No.  (Rs M)   No.  (Rs M)  (Rs M)  (Rs M)
Bicycles                                670        130   0.09    100   0.07   37    0.02    267   0.18    0            0.18
Motorcycles                           5,500         70   0.38      29   0.16                    99   0.54    0.33    0.87
4WD Vehicles                        63,000          52   3.27       2   0.12                    54   3.39    2.41    5.80
Pickup Trucks                       63,000          12   0.76       6   0.38    4    0.25       22   1.39    0.98    2.37
Saloon Cars                         56,000           5   0.28       1   0.06                     6   0.34    0.39    0.73
Subtotal                                               4.78           0.79          0.27            5.84    4.11    9.95
Physical Contingency 5%                                  0.24           0.04           0.02           0.30             0.30
Price Escalation 6%                                      0.31           0.05           0.06           0.42             0.42
TOTAL                                                  5.33           0.88          0.35            6.56    4.11   10.67
1/ Excluding duties and taxes (Annex 3.3, Table 14)
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
M w



ANNEX 3.3
Table 16
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Grades and Pay Scales of Staff Effective from 1st May 1977
National Pay Scale        Rate used in Calcu-
Monthly        Annual       lations for Project
Rs             Rs                 Rs
1/
NPS   5  Tractor Drivers             290/470      3480/5640              5,000
"    5  Car Drivers                    "                               5,000
"    8  Clerks                     370/640       4440/7680             6,000
9  Field Assistants           390/700       4680/8400             6,600
17  Agricultural Officers      900/1750   10800/21000             16,000
17  Research Assistants           "              i
17  Subject Matter                it
Specialists                   to
"   17  Farm Managers                 if
"   17  Assistant Director
Agriculture                900/1750 +  10800/21000            17,900
Rs 150 allowance
"   18  Senior Subject Matter
Specialist                1350/2150    16200/25800            21,000
"   18  Senior Training
Officer                       "                               21,000
18  Deputy Director
Agriculture                   "                               21,000
"   19  Director Agriculture
2250/2750    27000/33000           30,000
20  Director-General of
Agriculture               2800/3200    33600/48400            41,000
1/ National Pay Scale
78



ANNEX 3.3
Table 17
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Present and Future Staff Numbers
Total      Total
Additional In                        Addi-      Future
Present    1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   tional            Staff
Director-General (201/)                         NIL            1          -          -          -          -         1             1
Director of Agriculture (19)
Extension Operation                             1           1           -          -          -          -         1            2
Project Executive Officer                     NIL            1          -          -          -          -         1            1
Director of Adaptive Research                 NIL           -           1          -          -          -         1            1
Information Officer                           NIL           -          1           -          -        _           1            1
Subtotal Grade 19                               1           2           2         -         _            -         4            5
Deputy Director of Agriculture (18)
In Charge of Divisions                          2           (2)        -           -          -          -        (2)         NIL
In Charge of Districts                        NIL           5                                                      5            5
Senior Training Officer                       NIL           1          -          -           -          -         1            1
SSMA                                          NIL           -          8           6          -          -        14           14
Soil Scientist                                NIL           -          1           -          1          -         2            2
Subtotal Grade 18                               2           4           9          6          1          -        2            2
Assistant Director of Agriculture (17)
In Charge of Districts                         11           (4)        -           -          -          -        (4)           7
In Charge of Subdivisions                     NIL          15          -          -           -          -        15           15
Information Section                           NIL           2          -           -          -          -         2            2
Assistant Chemist                             NIL           -           1          -          1          -         2            2
Research Assistant                            NIL           -           4          4          2          -        10           10
Farm Manager                                  NIL           -           2          2          -          -         4            4
Subject Matter Specialists                     11          25          -           -          -          -        25           36
Agricultural Officers                         202          (38)        (7)         -          -          -       (45)         157
Subtotal Grade 17                             224       None        None           6          3      None          9          233
Field Assistants (9)
Extension Work                                703          50         84          85          -          -       219          922
ARFs                                          NIL           -           6          6          -          -        12           12
Laboratory Assistants                         NIL            -          1          -          1          -         2            2
Subtotal                                      703          50         91          91          1          -       233          936
WOTAL EXTENSION STAFF                           930           57        102        103          5          -       267        1,197
1/   National Pay Scale. (Annex 3.3, Table 16).
79



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Incremental Staff Salaries (Rs '000)
Annual        1979-80       1980-81        1981-82        1982-83         1983-84       Total
Emoluments    No.  Cost    No.  Cost        No.  Cost      No.  Cost      No.  Cost        Cost
(Rs)
Director-General               41,000        1       41    1       41     1       41     1       41      1      41       205
Director                       30,000        2       60    4      120     4      120      4     120      4     120       540
Deputy Director                21,000        4       84   13      273    19      399    20      420    20      420    1,596
Assistant Director             17,900        -       -     -       -      6      107      9     161      9     161       429
Field Assistants                6,600       50      330  141      931   232   1,531   233   1,538   233   1,538    5,868
Clerks, Drivers, etc.           5,000       60     300   80       400    82      410    84      420    84      420    1,950
Subtotal                      -          -     815    -   1,765    -    2,608        -   2,700           2,700   10,588
Physical Contingency 5%                              41            88            130            135            135       529
Price Escalation-/                                  102           451          1,002          1,430          1,856    4,842
TOTAL                                           959        2,304           3,740          4,265          4,691   15,959
NOTE:  For additional staff members in each year, and positions included in each NPS grade, see Table 17
For appropriate annual salary cost, see Table 16.
1/  1979-80: 12%, 1980-81: 11%, 1981-82 onwards: 10%.                                                                    X X
H_ w
a)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-b
o



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Incremental Staff Allowances (Rs '000)
Annual     1979-80        1980-81        1981-82       1982-83        1983-84       Total
Rate     No. Cost       No.  Cost     No.  Cost      No.  Cost      No.  Cost       Cost
(Rs)
Director-General             3,600       1      4      1       3      1       4      1      4       1      3        18
Director                     3,600       2      7      4      14      4      5       4     14      4      15        65
Deputy Director              3,600      8      14     13     47      19     68      20     72     20      72       273
Assistant Director           3,600       -      -      -       -      6     22       9     32      9      32        86
Field Assistant              1,400      50     70    141    197    232    325    233    326    233    326        1,244
Subtotal                    -               95      -    261       -    434      -    448            448      1,686
Physical Contingency 5%                         5            13             22             23             23        86
Price Escalatio1-/                             14             70           174            245            318       821
TOTAL                                      124           344            630            716            789     2,603
1/  1979-80:  12%;  1980-81:  11%;  1981-82 onwards:  10%.
NOTE: The number of days per month on which travel or daily allowances are due, and the rates,
were taken as follows:
DC          10 days 2 Rs 30
DA          12 days @ Rs 25
DDA )
SSMS  )     15 days @ Rs 20
ADA)
FA           8 days @ Rs 15 - The FA is assumed to live in a house provided                   1 
by the project, near his work area.                          i W
Drivers     16 days a Rs 15                                                                    ,
Staff members eligible for incremental allowances are same as in Table  18.
For drivers'allowances see Table  20.
OD



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Incremental Operating Costs of Transport Vehicles (Rs '000)
Unit Costl/         1979/80        1980/81       1981/82         1982/83        1983/84
per annum (Rs)   No.   Cost    No.   Cdst.   No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    Total
Bicycles                             480         100      48    200      96    237    114    237    114    237    114           486
Motorcycles                        3,600          60    216      89    320      89    320      89    320       89    320      1,496
4-WD Vehicles                     28,500          40  1,140      42  1,197      42  1,197      42  1,197      42  1,197       5,928
Pickups                           27,200          12    326      18    490      22    S98      22    598       22    598      2,610
Saloon Cars                       27,200           4    109       5    136       5    136       5    136        5    136        653
Sub-Total                                             1,839          2,239          2,365          2,365           2,365    11,173
Physical Contingency 5%                                  92            112            118             118            118        558
Price Escalation                                        232             572            913         1,252           1,626     4,595
TOTAL                                                 2,163          2,923          3,396          3,735           4,109    16,326
/   Vehicle operating costs were compiled as follows:
Bicyles           : Rs 40/monthly, to cover repayment, repair and a set of tires and tubes each year.
Motorcycles       : Rs 300/monthly, to cover repayment (Rs 150), repair, POL costs or an expected
monthly use of 600 miles.
4-WD Vehicles    : Annual mileage estimated at 15,000;  cost per mile, Rs 1.90 to cover repair,
POL, driver's salary and allowances.
Cars and Pickups : Annual mileage estimated at 17,000; cost per mile, Rs 1.60 to cover repair,
POL, driver's salary and allowances.
2/   Operating costs of vehicles for building construction supervision are in Table 5,
vehicle fleet increases as per Table 13.
co



PAKISTAN
SIN]D AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Operating Costs of Adaptive Research Farms
(In Rs '000)
Unit       1980/81         1981/82        1982/83        1983/84       Total
Cost     No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost   No.    Cost         Cost
Tractor and Implements (55 HP)       30,000      2      60      4     120      4      120     4     120        420
Tractor and Implements (10 HP)       13,000      2      26      4       52     4       52     4       52       182
Threshers                             1,000      2      20      4      40      4       40     4       52       140
Oxen and Ox Implements                1,300      2       3      4        4     4        4     4        4        15
Sprayers                                300      2       1      4        2     4        2     4        2         7
Farm Wages                           15,000      2      30      4      60      4       60     4       60       210
Sub-total                                              140            278             278            278        974
Contingency 7%                                           10             19             19             19         67
Price Escalation                                         36           109             149            194        488
TnTAL                                        186            406            446            491      1,529
NOTE: 1. Tractor and implement operating costs calculated as follows:
Wages of Operator, Including Overtime                                           Rs  7,000
55 HP Operating and Repair Costs of Implements, Rs 20/hr, 1,200 h/yr            Rs 23,000
10 HP Operating and Repair Costs of Implements, Rs 10/hr,   600 h/yr            Rs 10,000
2. Thresher and sprayer costs cover repair and, in case of sprayers, also fuel.
3. Ox and ox implements include feeding costs (other than produce of ARF) and implement raintenance.
4. Farm wages: an average 5 mm/annum @ Rs 10/day, employed as needed.
5.  Price escalation:  1979180              12%                                                                 -3
1980/81             11%
1981 onwards        10%.                                                                  M
oo 
w                                                                                                                              t



ANNEX 3.3
Table 22
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Maintenance of Buildings
(Rs '000)
1981/82    1982/83    1983/84        Total
Cumulative value of buildings
completed before FY 1/                  17,866       37,710      54,760        -
Maintenance @ 2-1/2%                         447          943       1,369       2,759
2/
Price Escalation-                            164          475         896      1,535
TOTAL                                   611        1,418      2,265       4,297
1/ Including physical contingency but excluding price escalation.
2/ 1979-80: 12%; 1980-81: 11%; 1981-82 onwards: 10%.
84



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
The Pest Scouting Component (Rs '000)
Unit        1979/80         1980/81        1981/82          1982/83        1983/84
Costs    No.   Cost    No.   Cost    No.    Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost              Total
(Rs)
Staff Salaries-/
Pest Scouts             17,900      4       72      4      72      4        72      4       72      4      72        360
Drivers                  5,000      4       20      4       20     4        20      4       20      4      20        100
Staff Allowances2-'         3,600      4       14      4       14     4        14      4       14      4       14         70
Casual Labor                2,000      4        8      4        8     4         8      4        8      4        8         40
Materials3/                 1,500       4        6     4        6      4         6     4        6      4        6         30
4/
Vehicle Operation-/        25,500      4      114      4      114      4      114      4      114      4      114         570
Subtotal                                   234            234      4       234      4      234     4      234       1,170
Physical Contingency                           23              23              23              23              23         115
Price Escalation5/                             31              63              94             130             168         486
TOTAL                                      288            320              351             387            425       1,771
1/  Table 16.
2/  Table 19.
3/ Insect traps, pheromone, etc.
4/ Table 20.
0    5/  1979-80: 12%;  1980-81: 11%;  1981-82 onwards: 10%.



ANNEX 3.3
Table 24
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component for Financing by GOP
(In Rs '000)
1979-80  1980-81 1981-82 1982/83 1983-84   Total
Drivers (2)!/                    16        16       1        1        1        35
TA for Drivers                    7         7       1        1        1         17
Office Furniture and
Equipment                        20                                            20
Operation aq Maintenance
of VehLcles-                     46        46       2        2        3         99
Office Rent-/                    36        36       -        -        -        72
Contingency @ 5%                  6         5                                   10
Total                  131       110        4        4       5        254
US$ Equivalent ('000)  13.2        11       0.4      0.4     0.5       25.7
1/ @ Rs 8,000 per annum per head.
2/ @ Rs 1.20/mile; 1,500 miles/month.
3/ After two years, no special office space is required.
86



PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Budget Covering UNDP Contribution
(US$ '000)
Unit       Total      1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84
Cost    M/M  Cost  M/M  Cost  M/M  Cost M/M  Cost  M/M  Cost  M/M  Cost
10 Project Personnel
11 Experts
11.01  Extension and Training            9,000/m   24   216   12   108   12   108
11.02  Farm Planning                     9,000/m   18   162    9    81    9    81
11.03  Monitoring and Evaluation         9,000/m    8    72    2    18    -         -   2   18      2   18      2   18
11.04  Short Term                        9,000/m    5    45    1        9    1      9   1    9      1    9      1    9
11.99  Subtotal                                     55   495         216         198        27          27          27
13  Other Project Personnel/                    200/m   30      6   12      2   12      3   2    0.5   2            2    0.5
2/
15  Official Travel2-                          460/m           76          23          22        10.5        10.5        10
19  Component Total                                           577         241         223        38          37.5        37.5
48 Equipment
48.01  Vehicles                          6,000            12          12
48.02  Cameras and Projectors                -             1           1
48.03  Office Machi4es and Equipment         -            12          12
48.04  Expendables-J                 4/      -             2           1           1
48.05  Fees to Tando Jam University-         -            50          10          10        10          10          10
Contingency 5%                                            32          14          12         2           2           2       m
TOTAL                                                    686         291         245        50          49.5        49.5
<    1/  Clerical and Secretarial help.                              3/  Stationery, postage, etc.
2/  Experts' travel in Pakistan plus foreign study              4/  Tando Jam Agricultural University would do an annual
tours @ $10,000 per annum.                                      monitoring survey to record progress of the project.



ANNEX 3.3
Table 26
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Annual Schedule of Expenditures (Rs M)
TOTAL              1979/80          1980/81         1981/82           1982/83          1983/84
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign
I Land Acquisition            0.66     -       0.66    .22      -        .44     -        -        -       -        -        -       -
II Civil Works
Staff Housing           34.44    6.09   40.53       -       -     11.58    2.05   11.48    2.03   11.38    2.01         -        -
ARF Complexes             6.45    1.18    7.63      -       -      1.62    0.29    3.23    0.59    1.61    0.29         -        -
Soils Laboratories &
Housing                0.88    0.16    1.04       -       -      0.44    0.08    0.44    0.08        -        -       -        -
Training Centers &
Other Buildings        0.66    0.12    0.78       -       -      0.33    0.06    0.17    0.03    0.16    0.03         -        -
Engineering and
Administration         5.18    1.17    6.35       -       -      1.75    0.58    1.75    0.59    1.68         -                -
Furniture                 0.75    0.19    0.94      -       -       0.25    0.06    0.25    0.06    0.25    0.07        _        -
Sub-total                  48.36    8.91   57.27                     15.97    3.12   17.32    3.38   15.08    2.40
III Equipment & Transport
Office Equipment          0.12    0.13    0.25    0.06   0.06    0.06    0.07         -        -       -        -
Information & Training  0.12    0.13    0.25    0.06   0.07    0.06    0.06           -       -        -        -       -        -
Laboratory Equipment    0.62    0.66    1.28        -       -       0.31    0.33      -       -       0.31    0.33      -        -
ARF Equipment             0.25    0.65    0.90      -       -       0.12    0.33    0.13    0.32       -        -        -       -
Vehicles                  5.69    3.89    9.58    4.97   3.40    0.43    0.29    0.29    0.20          -        _        -       -
Sub-total                   6.80    5.46   12.26    5.09   3.53    0.98    1.08    0.42    0.52    0.31    0.33
IV Incremental Operating
Costs
Salaries                10.59      -      10.59    0.82    -        1.77     -       2.61      -      2.69      -        2.70    -
Allowances                1.69     -       1.69    0.10    -        0.26     -       0.43      -      0.45      -        0.45    -
Vehicle Operation         2.79    8.38   11.17    0.45   1.38    0.57    1.67    0.59    1.77    0.61    1.77            0.59   1.77
Operating ARFs            0.24    0.73    0.97      -       -       0.03    0.10    0.07    0.21    0.07    0.21         0.07   0.21
Maintenance of
Buildings              2.21    0.55    2.76       -       -       -        -       0.36    0.09    0.76    0.18       1.09   0.28
Pest Scouting             0.78    0.39    1.17    0.15   0.08    0.15    0.08    0.15    0.08    0.16    0.08            0.16   0.08
Sub-total                 18.30   10.05   28.35    1.52   1.46    2.78    1.85    4.21    2.15    4.74    2.24             5.06   2.34
V Technical Assistance        0.25    6.79    7.04    0.12   2.88    0.11    2.43    0.01    0.50           -      0.49      0.01   0.49
Net Project Costs          74.37   31.21  105.58    6.95   7.87   20.28    8.48   21.96    6.55   20.13    5.46            5.07   2.83
Physical Contingencies    5.14    2.12    7.26    0.13   0.31    1.49    0.68    1.75    0.53-   1.54    0.47              0.23   0.13
Price  Escalation          20.12    8.30   28.42    1.87   2.12    5.46    2.28    5.91    1.76    5.42    1.47            1.36   0.77
TOTAL                      99.63   41.63  141.26    8.95  10.30   27.23   11.44   29.62    8.84   27.09    7.40            6.66   3.73
Duties & Taxes              4.95     -       4.95    1.40    -        1.40     -       1.25      -      0.60      -        0.30    -
TOTAL WITHOUT DUTIES
AND TAXES                94.68   41.63  136.31
88



ANNEX 4.1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
Technical Assistance
I. Consulting Service
Purpose of Consultant Assistance
1.        Consultant assistance would be required:
(a) to assist in imparting the principle and practice of the
T&V System of agricultural extension to staff of the
Sind Department of Agriculture;
(W) to provide additional expertise in fields not previously
covered by the Department which are material to success-
ful project implementation;
(c) to assist the Sind Regional Planning Organization in
initiating a monitoring and evaluation program for the
extension project, and to help start its operation.
2.        The T&V system of agricultural exension represents a fundamental
departure from the system practiced before May 1978 in that its sole objec-
tive is to advise and teach the farmer, through showing and discussing the
recommended farming practices, and not to perform services for them. To
ensure that this basic change of approach is thoroughly and convincingly
instilled at all staff levels, the consultant group would be headed by a
Training and Extension Planning Consultant.  He would work principally
with the newly appointed D-G (Extension) to ensure that all aspects of
the project, but in particular organizational and training matters, are
implemented according to the principles and practice of the T&V system.
3.        A Farm Planning and Management Consultant would develop methods to
:nLeoyra-e the current crop-by-crop approach into the planning of the entire
irtegrated business of the farm.
4.        The Monitoring and Evaluation consultant would be required to train
and advise the staff of the Sind Regional Planning Organization in conducting
evaluation studies and in analyzing and interpreting the data collected.
5.        There would be provision for short-term and contingency consul-
tanC4es bringing the total allocation to 55 man/months. Terms of reference
aad expected length of assignment are given in Appendix 1. Tables 1 and 2
list the costs, including that of their transport.
89



ANNEX 4.1
Page 2
6.        The consultants would preferably belong to a single firm, to ensure
continuity and central direction. However, suitable individual experts would
be acceptable, provided they have the necessary qualifications, would be able
to devote their full time and attention to their assignment and there is an
assurance of continuity and follow-up.
II. Training
7.        To support and supplement the work of the consultants, selected key
personnel from the extension staff would benefit from seeing the T&V system in
operation in areas where it was introduced several years earlier. While the
technical details of the extension message are necessarily specific to the
country and even the narrower locality, the operating style of the staff and
the organization of the training sessions and farmer meetings would be largely
similar. Thus, staff at all levels would benefit from observing the system
in operation; the only constraint would be linguistic.
8.        Under the project, there would be provision to finance such study
tours either for individuals or, especially for FAs, small groups. The coun-
tries where conditions are sufficiently alike to Pakistan are India, Sri Lanka,
Thailand and Turkey. Trips to international research stations like CIMMYT,
IRRI and ICRISAT would be confined to SSMSs, the D-G (Extension), the Director
of Adaptive Research and other senior extension staff.
90



ANNEX 4.1
Appendix 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SIND AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND ADAPTIVE RESEARCH PROJECT
I. Training and Extension Planning Consultant
(Team Leader)
1.   Function
(a) to advise and assist in the preparation and organization of the
training program for staff at all levels;
(b) to advise and assist in the organization and operation of the
extension service according to the Training and Visits system;
(c) to coordinate the work program of the other consultants and
follow up on agreed actions.
2.   Duties
(a) Training: The consultant would be working primarily with
the Senior Training Officer (STO) and the SNIS (Training)
in the districts. He would also have frequent contact
with the FAs and their supervisors. His duties would
include but not be confined to the following:
(i) advising and assisting in preparing the training
program for all regular training sessions (fort-
nightly FA training and the bi-annual training for
all staff);
(ii) training the trainers (SSMS, SMS, AO) in teaching
methods based on workshop and practical training
as well as lecturing;
(iii) working with the ADAs, DDAs and SSMSs, identifying
technical training needs of SMSs and AOs as they
arise, and organizing appropriate courses, either
within the extension service or through the Tando
Jam Agricultural University;
(iv) setting out the technique of farmer meetings and
training the FAs and AOs in their effective exe-
cution; and
91



ANNEX 4.1
Appendix 1
Page 2
(v) preparing a training manual: the manual to focus
on teaching methods and a framework into which
technical details can be fitted.
(b)  Extension Operation:  in connection with the operation of the
extension service, the consultant would work with the Secretary
for Agriculture, the D-G (Extension), the Director of Adaptive
Research and the two divisional Directors of Agriculture. His
duties would include but not be confined to:
(vi) advising on the field-level operation of the service,
especially the detailed scope of work of the FAs and
the AOs;
(vii) assisting the ADAs and DDAs in organizing logistic sup-
port of all their staff as regards housing, transport
and other support activities;
(viii)  reviewing reporting requirements to ensure their ade-
quacy yet prevent it from becoming a burden;
(ix) using his best efforts to establish a good working
relationship between the ARF staff, the extension
service and the Directors of Research;
(c) As Team Leader, the consultant would be expected to:
(x)  ensure that the D-G (Extension) and his staff are ready
to make the best use of short-term consultants; and
(xi) coordinate the work program of the other consultants
and be briefed to follow up on their recommendations
between their visits or after their final departure.
3.        Qualifications.  The consultant must have a degree in agriculture
and have had direct operating experience of an agricultural extension organi-
zation. Training in, and exposure to, extension education is essential. He
must have had experience in an agricultural and cultural environment similar
to Pakistan.
4.        Time Required and Duty Station.  He must be available on October 1,
1979 and remain in Pakistan for two years. He would be based in Hyderabad,
attached to the office of the D-G (Extension).
92



ANNEX 4.1
Appendix 1
Page 3
II. Farm Planning and Management Consultant
1.        Function.  To develop the data and methodology to prepare integrated
plans for an individual's entire farm, taking into account the operator's
resource base and managerial ability.
2.        Duties.  The consultant would work principally with the SSMSs for
Farm Management and Farm Economics who would be expected to take over his
task. His duties would include but not be confined to the following:
(a) review recorded information (published or in MSc or PhD
theses, in University archives) on farm planning and man-
agement for all farm sizes;
(b) arrange for a number of time series studies to be con-
ducted in all districts and on different farm sizes,
from which to supplement and complement recorded farm
planning information;
(c) identify the key market factors that are material
in determining the kind of farm plan to be developed
and organize its continuing monitoring by the SSMSs
concerned;
(d) select a number of samples in each districts, and of each
typical farm size, controlled by independent management
decision makers. Examine in detail their present farm
business, their land, water, farm power and financial
resources and assess their managerial ability. From
these data, prepare a farm plan that would more fully
utilize their resources and would increase their overall
income commensurate with the extra investment required
and increased risk taken;
(e) as a follow-up stage, oversee and monitor similar work
by the SSMSs concerned; later, ensure that the SSMSs
train selected AOs, preferably one in each taluka, in
a similar task; assist in this training ad review the
farm plan produced; and
(f) at the end of his assignment prepare guidelines for the
continuation of this work.
3.        Qualifications.  The consultant would have a degree in agriculture
or agricultural economics, with at least ten years' experience in agricultural
planning, preferably at the farm or sub-district level. Good general know-
ledge of irrigated agriculture involving the principal crops grown in Pakistan
is essential.
93



ANNEX 4.1
Appendix 1
Page 4
4.        Time Required and Duty Station.  The consultant would be required
for six months, spread over the second, third and fifth year of the project.
Each stay would be for approximately two months. He would be based in
Lahore.
III. Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant
1.        Function.  To assist the Sind Regional Planning Organization (SRPO)
effectively to monitor and evaluate the functioning and impact of the reorga-
nized extension service.
2.        Duties.  Working with the Officer in charge of SRPO, the
Consultant's duties include but are not confined to:
(a) developing questionnaires that would secure information
from the project area that would indicate the present
benchmark situation regarding productivity, agronomic
and socio-economic factors;
(b) training the staff who will do the survey: enumerators
as well as processors; and
(c) assisting with the analysis and interpretation of the
information, to enable D-G (Extension) to improve the
operation of the extension service.
3.        Qualifications.  The consultant would be a qualified statistician,
with extensive working experience in developing countries, especially with
survey work in rural communities. He should preferably have participated
in agro-economical surveys, especially in the supervision and control of
field enumerators.
4.        Time Required and Duty Station.  The consultant would be required
for six to eight months, spread over the first, second, and third and fifth
year of the project. Each stay would be for approximately two months. He
would be based in Hyderabad.
94



1  0
n              -~~~~~~~c
&  r                            IC                                         >     ,       C-)   _4
AGw\  1<*                    -rn                                                                    fl6 
XA1,.-~~~~~~~~~
... ....    ,       ,'                                  .   --  
..  .......  z                  8>_            
10  C  2.                                 I  ...
0                C~~~~~~~~~~ 
-      C                         n
5-=             V    Q0        _-.i     --0                 * 
0~~~~ B                        i               0         3rn '   
-~~ ~ ~ -(    C                                                                                         -    4  aC  4i
B~                                                                                                             m   "n O      
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >9 
-C ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-;
aD~~~~~~~~A,cn ,V-    I                                                                          n
o < . G< 's, :} ;: s o c e o Hfl l= . 0 9g, 1 \   ,                        X~~~N
e~~~~ ~ /noDCIrs S                                                                  atfct -  /v_;4J..i--- 
i~~~~~~~~~n   r  .    '  '';' '' 
~~~~~~~~~~a     r       cc   o --- ;/*S....... ..o t,    ,   , ,     ,... ;J        -
i;U-;;S9:~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~N /6 7nDr.SoJN  :::--: D s::: 
*q,--[-9's  'AsOa's JD''' 5 ,-'              0   ::  :o C   : .  
.r~~~~~ n   o <O '3^g .............. f ;'''_, i ........... ..
t2iloI    WVYUO'F77nnoo)  Po50
\  g    ngn  )o guL ofrL         saootL<Zs>tI .... .
*5Jo<0oro; '<r,nnoi mgo    X  ....  ~ 
J;oOsoonggyJos9oGooecoovooojs  . gg: \|_   I
0    0 o           N o -          Z
..fCoO   -    C  &   0... .. 0    E    N  fl>
0 D      ,, 0     0                                                            Ogg
-~~~ -      -n; e Sa.L  ri 



