CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 922 PAK
Project Agreement
(Sind Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF SIND
Dated June 12, 1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 922 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
PROVINCE OF SIND, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Sind).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Sind agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Sind, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Sind shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. Sind shall make adequate and timely budgetary
provisions for the implementation of the Project in line with
the recommendations on financial requirements for the Project as
included in the Project Implementation Schedule for the following
year, including funds required for transportation of extension
workers as provided in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Sind shall:
(a) make vehicles under the Project available to extension
workers, adaptive research farm staff and its Communications and
Works Department in accordance with Part A of the Schedule to
this Agreement, and thereafter maintain the number of vehicles for
extension workers and adaptive research farm staff at a level
satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) compensate, in accordance with prevailing Sind rules
and regulations, extension workers and adaptive research farm
staff for expenditures incurred during duty travel.
Section 2.04. Sind shall ensure that the appointments of
staff required for implementation of the Project shall be carried
out in accordance with a program and timetable satisfactory to the
Association.
For that purpose:
(a) Sind shall by October 1, 1979, authorize the staff
positions specified in Part B of the Schedule to this Agreement;
(b) Sind shall appoint such staff in accordance with Part B
of such Schedule;
(c) Sind shall maintain the Sind Agricultural extension
service staff at a level satisfactory to the Association; and
(d) Sind shall introduce a program, satisfactory to the
Association for the training of candidates for Field Assistant
positions.
Section 2.05. (a) Sind shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction schedules, procure-
ment schedules and training programs for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 3 -
(b) Sind: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Sind and the
Association, Sind shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by Sind and the Association of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.06. Sind shall take measures satisfactory to the
Association to ensure that all agricultural extension staff in
direct contact with farmers shall be released from all respon-
sibilities not directly related to agricultural extension activi-
ties.
Section 2.07. Sind shall establish and maintain a program, to
be implemented by an organization satisfactory to the Association,
to monitor and evaluate the Project in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.08. (a) Sind shall establish and thereafter
maintain, with responsibilities and membership satisfactory to
the Association: (i) a Project Review Committee; and (ii) by
December 31, 1979 a District Advisory Committee for each of the
Districts in Project Area A.
(b) Sind shall, by October 1, 1979 appoint a Project Co-
ordinator in the office of the Chief Engineer, Buildings, of the


﻿Sind Communications and Works Department, responsible for the
engineering and administration of Project works.
Section 2.09. Sind shall carry ou, Part D of the Project
in accordance with a program and procedures including detailed
proposals for staff organization and staff increases supported by
a financing plan, satisfactory to the Association.
For that purpose, Sind shall:
(a) by December 31, 1979 furnish to the Association for its
review, such program and procedures, accompanied by an implementa-
tion plan; and
(b) commence to implement by March 1, 1980 the program
and procedures in accordance with said implementation plan.
Section 2.10. (a) Sind shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Sind shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Sind of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Sind shall maintain separate records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of Sind
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.02. Sind shall: (i) have such accounts and finan-
cial statements (statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later


﻿- 5 -
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.02. Sind shall cause the buildings, equipment and
other facilities included in the Project to be operated and
maintained in accordance with generally accepted engineering
standards and shall provide promptly as needed the funds required
for that purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Sind thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Sind of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Sind:
Additional Chief Secretary (Development)
Planning and Development Department
Government of Sind
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT SIND
Karachi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Sind may be taken or executed by its
Additional Chief Secretary (Development) Planning and Development
Department or such other person or persons as he shall designate


﻿- 7 -
in writing, and he shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF SIND
By Is! Ihsanul Haq
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Sind Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research Service
A.   Staff Vehicles
FY   1980    1981    1982    Total
Bicycles                       130     100      37      267
Motorcycles                     70      29       -       99
Pickups                         12       6       4       22
Four-wheel drive vehicles        52      2       -       54
Cars                             5       1       -        6
TOTAL                 269    138      41      448
B.   Incremental Staff*
FY   1980   1981    1982   1983   Total
Director-General of
Agriculture                  1     -       -       -     1
Director of Agriculture          2      2       -       -     4
Deputy Director of
Agriculture                 4      9       6       1    20
Assistant Director of
Agriculture                 -      -       6       3     9
Field Assistant                  50    91      91       1   233
TOTAL                  57   102     103       5   267
*    Director of Agriculture (DA) designation includes the follow-
ing functions: DA Extension, Project Executive Officer
Director of Adaptive Research and Information Officer.
Deputy Director of Agriculture (DDA) designation includes the
following functions: DDA (each in charge of a District in
Project Area A), Senior Training Officer, Senior Subject Mat-
ter Specialist and Soil Scientist.
Assistant Director of Agriculture (ADA) designation includes
the following functions: ADA (each in charge of a sub-
division in Districts of Project Area A), officers in the
Information Section, Assistant Chemist, Research Assistant,
Farm Manager, Subject Matter Specialist and Agricultural
Officer.


