Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16727
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2306-HO)
June 17, 1997
Sector Leadership Group
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Lempira (L.p)
1991    US$1.00 =       Lp 5.30 (September)
1992    US$1.00 =       Lp 5.83
1993    US$1.00 =       Lp 7.26
1994    US$1.00 =       Lp 9.40
1995    US$1.00 =       Lp 10.34
1996    US$1.00'=       Lp 12.80 (December)
FISCAL YEAR: January I to December 31 (Government)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kVA                     =        kiloVolt Ampere
kW                      =        kiloWatt
kWh                     =        kiloWatt hour
GWh (GigaWatt hour)              1,000,000 kWh
kV (kiloVolt)           =        1,000 Volt
MW (MegaWatt)           =        1,000 kW
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAP             Petroleum Administration Commission (Comisi6n Administradora del Petr6leo)
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CNEE            National Electric Regulatory Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Energia Electrica)
CNSSP           Public Utilities Supervisory Commission (Comisi6n Nacional Supervisora de
Servicios Puiblicos)
DGMH            General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (Direcci6n General de
Minas e Hidrocarburos)
ENEE            National Power Company (Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica)
ESAP            Energy Sector Adjustment Program
ESMAP           Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FRP             Financial Rehabilitation Program
GOH             Government of Honduras
IDA             hiternational Development Association
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
LRMC            Long-Run Marginal Cost
MNR             Ministry of National Resources (Secretaria de Recursos Naturales)
MORP            Management and Operational Restructuring Program
OFRAP           Operational and Financial Rehabilitation Program (Programa de Rehabilitaci6n Financiera
y Operacional)
PLP             Petroleum Liberalization Program
PPAR            Project Performance Audit Report
SAL             Structural Adjustment Loan
SAC             Structural Adjustment Credit
SECOPT          Ministry of Communications, Public Works and Transport (Secretaria de Comunicaciones,
Obras Puiblicas y Transporte)
UDAPE           Economics Policy Analysis Unit (Unidad de AnAlisis de Politica Econ6mica)
Vice President                           Shahid Javed Burki
Director                                 Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Country Sector Leader                    Martin Staab
Staff Member                             Marcelo Osorio



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Program  Objectives ..........................................1... 
B. Achievement of Objectives                             4.............................................4
C. Major Factors Affecting the Program ..............................................9
D .  Bank   Perform ance                                                   ............................................. 10
E. Borrower Performance ............................................. 12
F. Assessment of Program  Outcome and Sustainability .............................................     14
G. Future Operation                                ............................................. 14
H. Key Lessons Learned ............................................. 15
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.   Summary of Assessment ....................................... 16
2.   Related Bank Loans and Credits .......................................                                      17
3.   Program  Timetable ....................................... 18
4. Credit Disbursement: Cumulated, Estimated and Actual .18
5.   Key Indicators for Program  Implementation                                 ...................................... 19
6.   Key Indicators for Program  Operation ...................................... 20
7.   Studies Included in the Program  ...................................... 21
8.   Program  Cost and Financing ...................................... 21
9.   Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................... 21
10. Status of Legal Covenants ...................................... 22
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ...................................... 22
12. Bank Resources: Missions ...................................... 23
13. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................... 24
APPENDICES
A. ICR Mission Aide-Memoire.
B. Borrowers' Contribution to the ICR.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
Energy Sector Adjustment Program
(Credit 2306-HO)
PREF'ACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the Honduras Energy
Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP) financed by IDA Credit 2306-HO in the amount of
SDR 37.9 million (US$50.6 million equivalent), approved on October 31, 1991 and made
effective on December 12, 1991. In addition, IDA Reflows totaling SDR 47.7 mnillion
($65.9 million equivalent) were disbursed under related Credits 2306-1-HO and 2306-2-
HO.
Credit 2306-HO was disbursed in three tranches. The first tranche was disbursed
in December 1991, following credit effectiveness. The second and third tranches were
disbursed in December 1992 and February 1996, respectively. The credit was closed on
March 31, 1996 with a delay of 27 months. Final disbursement for the Technical
Assistance component took place on April 19, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Alvaro J. Covarrubias (Consultant) under the
supervision of Mr. Marcelo Osorio (Task Manager) of the Latin America Sector
Leadership Group (LASLG), Central America Department. Preparation of the ICR began
during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission of June 1996 and continued during
the main ICR mission in January 1997 (Appendix A: ICR Mission Aide Memoire). The
ICR is based on program and legal documents contained in the project file and discussions
with key Bank staff and officials in Honduras. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the program's preparation and execution (Appendix B)
and by providing comments on a draft of the ICR.



I



ii
Implementation Completion Report
Honduras
Energy Sector Adjustment Program
(Credit 2306-HO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Program Objectives and Components
I.    The Energy Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP) was launched in 1991 to support
GOH's comprehensive program of reforms in the energy sector, within the framework of
the structural adjustment program at that time (paras. 5-8).
2.    The main objectives of the ESAP were to: (i) establish a comprehensive energy
policy and strategy and a sound regulatory framework; (ii) strengthen the efficiency,
planning and financial soundness of the national power company (ENEE); (iii) improve
electricity pricing and resource allocation in the sector; (iv) promote petroleum
exploration and production; (v) liberalize petroleum products trade; and (vi) encourage
greater private sector participation in the development of the energy sector. Most of these
objectives had been identified in earlier sector work that was carried out by the Bank,
including the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP). They were also
directly related to the broader objectives of the then on-going SAL II and SAC (para. 1)
and were in line with the prevailing CAS for Honduras (paras. 10-16).
3.    To achieve these objectives, the ESAP components included: (i) a sector
institutional reform and strengthening program; (ii) an electricity pricing system to be
based on sound economic criteria and financial improvement targets; (iii) a Contract Plan
to establish clearer policy making and supervisory responsibilities on the part of the GOH
and performance accountability on the part of ENEE; (iv) a Management and Operational
Restructuring Program (MORP) to improve ENEE's performance; (v) a Financial
Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) to restore ENEE's financial soundness; and (vi) a Petroleum
Liberalization Program (PLP).
4.    As the ESAP-supported institutional reforms were expected to take some time to
accomplish, the related IDA credit was to be disbursed in three tranches. To support the
ESAP, the IDA credit included a technical assistance component, which financed an
upstream petroleum specialist, an interfuel substitution study, expert assistance to
liberalize the petroleum industry and the preparation of regulations for environmental
protection (para. 9).
Achievement of Objectives
5.    From the macroeconomic standpoint, the credit contributed significantly to the
balance of payments of Honduras by transferring US$116.5 million (including IDA
reflows) over the period 1992-96, plus US$105 million in parallel financing by the IDB.



iii
From a sectoral standpoint, most of the ESAP objectives were also achieved, although at a
slower pace than expected. However, two of the objectives were only partially achieved:
the operational and financial rehabilitation of ENEE and the liberalization of the petroleum
subsector (paras. 17 and 18, and Table 5).
6.    Energy policy and strategy. During design and implementation of the ESAP, three
Administrations introduced major structural and institutional changes in the electric power
subsector, and the downstream petroleum industry. The concepts contained in the Policy
Letter of August 26, 1991, are still applicable and suitable for Honduras, and are
supported by the present Government (para. 19).
7.    Establishment of a sound regulatoryframeworkfor the power subsector. A new
Electricity Law ("Ley Marco del Subsector Electrico", Decreto No. 158-94) and its
Regulations ("Reglamento de la Ley Marco del Subsector Electrico", issued by SECOPT)
were enacted in November 1994 and May 1996, respectively. This legislation establishes
the organizational structure of the power subsector and the functions of its various
institutions, and it defines the rules for granting concessions, accessing the national power
grid, load dispatch, the formation of private distribution companies and the installation of
new power generation capacity by the private sector (para. 20).
8.    A National Electricity Commission ("Comisi6n Nacional de Energia Electrica",
CNEE) replaced the former National Energy Commission. CNEE advises an Energy
Cabinet, comprising the President of Honduras and six Ministers, on energy policy,
investment planning, and concessions. It also sets the ground rules for the indicative
expansion plans and calculation of tariffs, and oversees the overall performance of the
sector and its agents (para. 21).
9.    Strengthening the efficiency, planning, andfinancial soundness of ENEE. In
retrospect, the design of the ESAP was inappropriate for the achievement of this
objective, which was therefore never fully met. The emphasis on enterprise restructuring,
rather than a more aggressive strategy to privatize electricity distribution, proved
inadequate to substantively improve ENEE's operational and financial efficiency.
Specifically, the Management and Operational Restructuring Program and the Financial
Rehabilitation Program were ineffective in improving operations and restoring the financial
health of ENEE. In 1996, energy losses remained high at 25 percent, accounts receivable
were equivalent to 187 days of billing (target was 70 days), and market and financial
indicators continued to be unsatisfactory (para. 22).
10.   Improvement of electricity pricing and resource allocation in the sector.
Achievements on this front have been significant. Tariff design is now based on economic
principles, and subsidies have been limited to residential consumption below 300 kWh per
month. In 1996, in real terms, the average electricity tariff was at least 90 percent of
ENEE's long-run marginal costs (para. 24), although the pace of tariff adjustments was
slower than would have been desirable.



iv
11.   Liberalization ofpetroleum products trade. Although there have been
improvements, this objective has been only partially met because some fuel prices continue
to be controlled by the Government. In 1992, the private sector was permitted to import
crude oil and petroleum products, and the guaranteed margins for local refinery,
distribution, transport, and retail sales were eliminated. At present, the role of the
Government, through the Petroleum Administration Commission (CAP), is increasingly
one of regulation based on objective criteria, while private sector companies are
responsible for the import, storage, transport, and distribution of petroleum products.
Nonetheless, full liberalization is incomplete as the Government has not yet deregulated
the prices of gasoline (regular and premium), diesel oil, and bottled LPG for domestic
consumption. However, these regulated prices are set at international levels by using a
parity formula which models the commercial chain from the supply to final consumers
(paras. 25-26).
12.   Petroleum exploration and production promotion. Based on studies carried out
by consultants, a hydrocarbon commercialization law which seeks to attract private
investors, was submitted to Congress. In addition, environmental regulations to protect
the environment from the effects of oil and gas exploration were enacted in 1994 (para.
27).
13.   Promotion of greater private sector participation in the development of the
energy sector. This objective has been substantially achieved. Private participation in the
import, transport and distribution of petroleum products is substantial. Moreover, ENEE
has entered into two power purchase agreements with two independent power producers:
one for 80 MW and another for 40 MW in thermal generation that reached full capacity
operation in 1995. Also, the thermal plants of La Ceiba (26 MW) and Puerto Cortes (60
MW), were repaired under a 15-year Rehabilitate-Operate-Maintain (ROM) agreement
with private developers (para. 29).
Major Factors Affecting the Program
14.   The major factors that adversely affected the achievement of some of the
program 's objectives were changes in the degree of commitment by three Administrations
and ENEE's lack of autonomy, compounded by uncontrollable natural events-the 1990-
94 drought that affected the power subsector (paras. 31-33).
15.   The credit became effective in December 1991, ahead of schedule, shortly after
Board approval, as the Callejas Administration had promptly complied with conditions for
effectiveness. Disbursement of the first tranche occurred in December 1991, following
credit effectiveness. However, the program lost momentum later in 1992 and 1993,
influenced by the events leading up to and following the presidential election of
November 1993. Also, ENEE's difficult operational and financial situation was
compounded during 1990-94, by a persistent drought and poor maintenance of thermal
power plants that caused severe power shortages, heavy financial losses to ENEE and the
economy, and customer dissatisfaction. By end 1994, ENEE repaired its thermal plants



v
and installed gas turbines, loaned by Mexico to help restore electricity supply (paras. 32
and 33).
Program Cost and Financing, and Credit Disbursement
16.   IDA Credit 2306-HO was in the amount of SDR 37.9 million (US$50.6 million
equivalent). Additionally, the IDB lent US$105 million (US$50 million for adjustment and
US$55 million for investment in power system distribution), and later added a fourth
tranche of US$20 million to its loan, which it has not yet disbursed (para. 34).
17.   Disbursement of the credit was accomplished in three tranches. The first tranche
was disbursed in December 1991, following credit effectiveness. The second tranche was
disbursed in December 1992. The credit closing date was extended three times to June
30, 1994, June 30, 1995 and finally to March 31, 1996. The third tranche was finally
disbursed in February 1996 after IDA waived compliance of two conditions. The final
credit disbursement for the Technical Assistance component occurred on April 19, 1996
(para. 35).
18.  IDA Reflows. The Credit Agreement was amended twice to include IDA Reflows.
The first Reflow amounted to SDR 23.8 million (US$32.5 million equivalent) and was
disbursed by April 1992. The second Reflow of SDR 23.9 million (US$33.4 million
equivalent) was disbursed by March 1994 (para. 36).
Bank Performance
19.   Program identification andpreparation was satisfactory overall, although there
were weaknesses in the design of the conditionalities to improve the operational and
financial performance of ENEE. The Bank identified the ESAP in early 1988, during the
Azcona Administration, and worked intensely over the period 1988-90 to support the
Government in its preparation. The energy policy letter and content of the ESAP, were
developed by the Bank jointly with the Callejas Administration, the IDB, and USAID
(paras. 37-39).
20.   Program appraisal was completed before satisfactorily resolving some key
outstanding issues, and therefore, the Bank 's performance at appraisal is judged to be
deficient. The ESAP was appraised in early 1991 during the Callejas Administration by a
joint mission of the Bank and the IDB. Since the Government had not yet defined its
position on some key issues, such as how to proceed with a prompt deregulation of
petroleum products trade, the institutional reform of the energy sector, and the financial
and operational autonomy of ENEE, the appraisal could not be completed in the field.
Subsequently, a Honduran delegation visited Washington to complete the appraisal. While
some issues were resolved, several key ones remained outstanding. Nevertheless, a
decision to proceed was taken and negotiations were held in August 1991 (paras. 40-43).
Subsequent problems encountered during implementation can be traced in part to the fact
that these issues were not fully addressed at appraisal and negotiations.



vi
21.   Program supervision was satisfactory. The Bank carried out extensive
supervision of the ESAP through effective field missions and good desk follow-up of
documentation submitted by the Government and ENEE. Also, the Bank coordinated
well with the IDB. The Bank gave good advice, not always heeded by the Government,
about the importance of carrying out a complete and prompt deregulation of petroleum
products trade, the need to increase electricity tariffs and eliminate subsidies at a fast pace,
and to give full autonomy to ENEE as a way to improve its financial performance (paras.
44 and 45).
Borrower Performance
22.   Although Borrower commitment to the ESAP objectives was strong at the outset
of preparation, by the time of appraisal this commitment had weakened somewhat. By
appraisal, the Callejas Government no longer had a clear position or expressed less than
full commitment to some measures intended to address important issues such as
deregulating petroleum products, granting autonomy to ENEE, and increasing electricity
tariffs significantly and quickly. Later, during the implementation phase of the ESAP,
performance in these areas was slow. For these reasons, the Borrower 's performance at
appraisal is rated as deficient (para 47).
23.   Program implementation was significantly delayed and, therefore, the Borrower 's
implementation performance is rated as deficient. The program got off to a good start.
As soon as the credit was approved by the Board in December 1991, the Callejas
Administration met the conditions for effectiveness and release of the first tranche.
However, events leading up to and following the presidential election of November 1993
diverted attention from the program and slowed down implementation. In January 1994,
the Reina Administration gradually resumed implementation of the ESAP, which
culminated finally in the approval by Congress of the new Electricity Law in November
1994. In late 1995 and early 1996, the Government expedited actions under the ESAP to
meet the conditions for the release of the third tranche. It focused on implementing the
newly passed Electricity Law, enacting its Regulations in May 1996, improving ENEE
operations, deregulating two more petroleum products (fuel-oil and aviation jet-fuel),
revising the import parity price formula, and developing a formula for adjusting electricity
tariffs which takes into account variations in fuel prices and the foreign exchange rate
(paras. 48 and 49).
24.   Compliance with covenants was on balance satisfactory. Most of the covenants
were met completely, although with some delay, and two were met only partially. The
latter related to the operational and financial rehabilitation of ENEE, and the full
liberalization of the petroleum subsector. These two covenants were among the
conditions for the release of the third tranche and when it became clear that they could not
be met fully within a reasonable time, a waiver was finally sought by the Borrower and
granted by IDA (para. 50 and Table 10).



vii
Assessment of Program Outcome and Sustainability
25.   The outcome of the ESAP is rated as marginally satisfactory. The Program
achieved most of its principal objectives, although with considerable delay and some
questions regarding longer-term sustainability. The following main accomplishments were
achieved: (i) a new Electricity Law and its Regulations provide the basis for a new
institutional structure within the power subsector which is almost fully implemented-
although it needs some fine tuning; (ii) actions were initiated to privatize all power
distribution networks; (iii) the economic principles for setting electricity tariffs are clearly
established, and subsidies are given only to relatively low-income residential consumers;
(iv) the private sector is participating in electric power generation; and (v) liberalization of
the petroleum subsector has gone a long way by aligning prices of petroleum products
with international prices, decontrolling many prices and eliminating government subsidies
(para. 51). The technical assistance that was provided was helpful in making available the
needed experts and studies.
26.   The sustainability of the ESAP is still uncertain. Although there has been no
reversal of the actions taken in compliance with the conditions of the Credit Agreement,
the Government has not yet granted CNEE the full authority it requires to regulate all
electricity tariffs, although it is currently preparing legislation to amend the Electricity Law
in order to address this issue. Also, while moving in that direction, the Government still
has difficult steps to take to privatize ENEE's distribution system (para. 52).
Future Operation
27.   Privatization of ENEE. In view of the very limited success achieved in improving
ENEE's operational and financial performance and in reducing electricity losses, the
Government has now opted to privatize ENEE's distribution system. This is a welcome
and superior development compared to the original adjustment program (para. 53).
28.   Action plan for the power subsector. An Executive Decree (PCM-044-95),
enacted on August 17, 1996, is the Government's plan for the continued reform of the
power subsector. Its success will depend in large part on the extent to which price
regulation is extricated from the political process, as was the intent of the Electricity Law
and the creation of the CNEE (para. 54).
29.   Energy sector performance indicators. Table 6, Part II of the ICR, lists the set of
indicators agreed with the Government to monitor the future performance of the energy
sector. CNEE will be in charge of monitoring the power subsector indicators. Monitoring
of the petroleum subsector indicators will continue to be done by CAP (para. 55).
Key Lessons Learned
30.   Based on the operation's experience, four important lessons can be drawn (paras.
57-60).



viii
31.   Lesson 1. Some of the delays encountered during implementation might have
been avoided had the Bank at appraisal waited until it reached fuller agreement with the
Government on several key issues. Admittedly, this would have delayed Program launch,
but on balance it probably would have led to an even better outcome. If this had not
proved possible, an alternative might have been to design a less ambitious program, more
in line with what the Government at the time considered that it could implement, even if
this had resulted in a more modest resource transfer to support the balance of payments.
32.   Lesson 2. Adapting successful models from other countries can be extremely
helpful in preparing a reform program and the Bank is well placed to facilitate this kind of
cross-country transfer of knowledge and experience. In this case, the Chilean Electricity
Law, enacted in 1982, served as a sound basis on which the Honduran Electricity Law was
designed.
33.   Lesson 3. Adjustment lending aims to support both structural reforms and to
alleviate the country's balance of payments constraints, with the latter often requiring
relatively quick disbursements. Consequently, major conditions should be required up
front (i.e. for Board presentation), and a few others (aimed at making the program
sustainable) for the release of not more than a second tranche. If it is foreseen that the
complexity of the sector adjustment requires a longer implementation period, it would be
advisable to explore options for doing it through more than one lending operation, perhaps
over a longer period of time.
34.   Lesson 4. A Contract Plan (or Performance Contract) between the Government
and a Government-owned power utility may not be an effective mechanism for improving
the operational and financial performance of the sector or the utility. It may be more
appropriate to concentrate efforts on reducing the role and monopoly status of the public
utility and correspondingly increasing the participation of the private sector. This, in fact,
is the Government's present policy, with its plan to privatize ENEE's distribution
functions.






Implementation Completion Report
Honduras
Energy Sector Adjustment Program
(Credit 2306-HO)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Program Objectives
Background
1.   In January 1990, a new administration, headed by President Callejas took
office and embarked on a program of broad economic reforms, aimed essentially at
redefining the role of the State in Honduras. Inter alia, this program sought to
eliminate complex regulations and subsidies, reduce the size of the public enterprise
sector by encouraging private sector participation, increase the efficiency of those
enterprises that remained publicly owned and generally remove price and other
distortions that inhibited markets from working efficiently. In support of the reform
program, the Bank approved a Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) for
US$90 million on September 13, 1990 and a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) for
SDR 14.3 million on January 29, 1991. SAL II became effective in November 1990
and the first tranche was disbursed immediately. The SAC became effective in April
1991 and its single tranche was also immediately disbursed.
2.    With the Government's structural adjustment program well underway, the
focus of Bank attention shifted to individual sectors that were causing serious fiscal
and other macroeconomic problems. The energy sector was identified and work
began in earnest to prepare the Energy Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP). The
ESAP was designed to complement the other structural adjustment operations by
concentrating on the reform of one of the country's most important public sector
enterprises (Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica, ENEE) and on the liberalization
of prices in the petroleum subsector. At the time, ENEE accounted for about 22
percent of Honduras' total foreign debt; all petroleum prices were controlled; and
there was virtually no private sector involvement in the power or petroleum
subsectors.
The Power Subsector
3.    The Government-owned power utility, ENEE, has had de-facto full monopoly
control over all aspects of the power business, including generation, transmission,
load dispatch and distribution. ENEE performed reasonably well in the 1 970s and
early 1980s. However, ENEE's finances began to deteriorate in the mid-1980s due to
a number of factors: low electricity tariffs, oversized investments and the
politicization of ENEE's daily operations, including appointment and removal of top
executives, hiring staff beyond the needs of the company, pressures to continue



2
providing service to non-paying customers, etc. All of these factors limited ENEE's
efficiency and resulted in a weak institution with poor management, over-staffing,
poor service, customer dissatisfaction, high electricity losses and poor maintenance of
facilities, especially those thermal power plants that were placed on reserve after the
inauguration of the Morazan (El Caj6n) hydroelectric power plant. Large transfers
from the Government were required to cover not only ENEE's debt service payments
and new investments, but its operating costs as well.
The Petroleum Subsector
4.    Before the energy sector adjustment program was implemented, most of the
activities in the petroleum subsector were controlled by the Government. The
Petroleum Administration Commission (CAP) was in charge of all imports of crude
oil, which was sold to the state-owned Puerto Cortes oil refinery. This refinery
operated under an agreement with a private oil company, Texaco, and had a
guaranteed annual profit of US$5 million, regardless of its efficiency. Its operations
resulted in substantial financial losses for the Government. Refined products,
including those imported by CAP, were sold on a "cost-plus" basis to distribution
companies. Distribution of petroleum products was carried out by private companies
within a system of controlled prices and margins. The level of prices for several key
products was below their cost of supply (i.e., kerosene, fuel oil, diesel oil), and
differentiated by type of consumer (i.e., two kerosene prices: for household and
industrial consumers). In addition, the existence of cross subsidies and stabilization
funds led to lack of transparency in financial management. Private sector investment
in the sector was marginal and confined to Texaco's routine maintenance of the
Puerto Cortes refinery.
Program Objectives and Components
5.    IDA and IDB joined efforts with the Government and ENEE to design the
Energy Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP) as a complement to the structural
adjustment/stabilization program supported under SAL II and the SAC. IDA's
financial and technical support was considered essential to: (i) assist the Government
in establishing a general energy policy framework and appropriate regulations to make
ENEE financially viable and autonomous (with strong management and operational
systems); (ii) expose the supply and distribution of petroleum products to market
forces; (iii) promote private sector participation; and (iv) provide critical balance of
payments support.
6.    The main objectives of the ESAP were to: (i) establish a comprehensive
energy policy and strategy and a sound regulatory framework; (ii) strengthen the
efficiency, planning and financial soundness of the national power company (ENEE);
(iii) improve electricity pricing and resource allocation in the sector; (iv) promote
petroleum exploration and production; (v) liberalize petroleum products trade; and



3
(vi) encourage greater private sector participation in the development of the energy
sector.
7.    To achieve these objectives, the program components included: (i) a sectoral
reform program; (ii) an electricity pricing system based on sound economic criteria
and financial improvement targets; (iii) a Contract Plan to establish clearer policy
making and supervisory responsibilities on the part of the GOH and performance
accountability on the part of ENEE; (iv) a Management and Operational
Restructuring Program to improve ENEE's performance; (v) a Financial
Rehabilitation Plan to restore ENEE's financial soundness; and (vi) a Petroleum
Liberalization Program (PLP).
8.    The above components included: (a)for the power subsector' targets calling
for significant improvements in ENEE's operations, such as progressivfe reduction of
electricity losses and of accounts receivable, and steps to set electricity prices at levels
consistent with long-run marginal costs; (b) for the petroleum subsector: in a first
phase, liberalization of imports, followed by a second phase to liberalize retail sales;
and (c) technical assistance in: (i) petroleum exploration promotion and related
environmental protection regulations; (ii) deregulation of the petroleum industry; and
(iii) carrying out an inter-fuel substitution study to address, inter alia, concerns about
deforestation through excessive use of fuel-wood.
9.    As the ESAP-supported institutional reforms were expected to take some time
to accomplish, the related IDA credit was to be disbursed in three tranches. To
support the ESAP, the IDA credit included a technical assistance component
(US$600,000) to finance: (i) a petroleum specialist in contracts administration and
negotiation; (ii) an interfuel substitution study; (iii) expert assistance for the
liberalization of the petroleum industry; and (iv) support to prepare regulations for
environmental protection.
Assessment of Program Objectives
10.   The program comprised a set of high priority objectives in the energy sector.
Most of these objectives had been identified in earlier sector work that was carried
out by the Bank, including the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
(ESMAP)'. They were also directly related to the broader objectives of the then on-
going SAL II and SAC (para. 1) and were in line with the prevailing CAS for
Honduras.
11.   Policy and strategy. Establishing a coherent policy and strategy was essential
for promoting a commercial orientation, increasing private sector participation and
protecting the environment. The need for environmental regulations was particularly
Honduras: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector. Bank Report No.6476-HO, August 1987;
Honduras: Petroleum Supply Management, ESMAP, Report No. 128/91, March 1991.



4
urgent in view of the intensive use of wood-fuel and the activities in petroleum
exploration.
12.   Sector institutionalframework. Developing strong operating and regulatory
institutions was an important objective. In particular, it was necessary for ENEE to
become independent of Government control and to increase the degree of private
sector participation in the petroleum subsector.
13.   ENEE 's operational andfinancialperformance. To improve performance in
the power sector, it was deemed essential to strengthen the efficiency, planning and
financial soundness of the national power company. The Contract Plan with the
GOH, the Management and Operational Restructuring Program, and the Financial
Rehabilitation Plan were intended to achieve that objective. In retrospect, one could
argue that it would have been better to concentrate efforts on restructuring ENEE to
diminish its role in the sector and correspondingly increase the participation of the
private sector. Today, the Government's strategy is, in fact, to reduce ENEE's role; it
has plans to privatize the distribution function.
14.   Electricity pricing. It was imperative to address this issue in order to make
the sector attractive to private investors and because ENEE's financial soundness
depended mainly on recovering the cost of service through an appropriate level and
structure of electricity tariffs based on sound economic principles. At the time,
average tariffs were well below marginal costs, substantial subsidies were given to
most residential consumers, and the approval of tariffs occurred within the political
arena.
15.   Petroleum exploration. The import of crude oil and petroleum products was
relatively large, while Honduras' petroleum potential had not been sufficiently
explored. Given this situation, an important objective of the program was to attract
internationally qualified companies to explore for oil and gas, but subject to enhanced
environmental protection regulations.
16.   Supply of petroleum products. The petroleum supply system was totally
controlled by the Government, and did not provide incentives to reward efficiency.
Therefore, the deregulation of the import and domestic sale of petroleum products
was an appropriate and high priority objective.
B. Achievement of Objectives
17.   From the macroeconomic standpoint, the Credit contributed significantly to
the balance of payments of Honduras by transferring US$115.2 million (including
IDA reflows) during the period 1992-96, plus US$105 million in parallel financing by
the IDB. It also contributed to most of the specific sectoral objectives, as discussed
below.



5
18.   Energy sector objectives. The program achieved most of its objectives for the
energy sector, but at a slower pace than expected. See also Part II, Table 5: Key
Indicators for Program Implementation. Two of the objectives were only partially
achieved: ENEE's operational and financial rehabilitation, and the liberalization of
the petroleum subsector. Also, the events leading up to and following the presidential
elections of November 1993 caused a slowdown in the pace of progress and delayed
completion of the program beyond the original closing date of June 1993. While
fiscal transfers to public institutions and subsidies to the private sector increased
sharply during 1993, tariffs for public services declined in real terms. The new
Administration that took office in January 1994, was faced with a difficult economic
situation and took some important measures in the second semester, thus effectively
beginning the process of reversing the economic decline and deterioration. The main
corrective measures were approved by Congress in October 1994, and included the
enactment of a new Electricity Law and further liberalization of the petroleum
subsector. During 1995 and 1996 the Government continued to implement the
structural reforms.
19.   Energy policy and strategy. During design and implementation of the ESAP,
three Administrations introduced major structural and institutional changes in the
electric power subsector and in the downstream petroleum industry as indicated
below. For the energy sector, the concepts contained in the Policy Letter of August
26, 1991, are still valid and suitable for Honduras, and are supported by the present
Government.
20.   Establishment of a regulatoryframeworkfor the power subsector. A new
Electricity Law and its Regulations were enacted in November 1994 and May 1996,
respectively ("Ley Marco del Subsector Electrico", Decreto No. 158-94, November
26, 1994, and Reglamento de la Ley Marco del Subsector Electrico", May, 1996).
Unfortunately, the debate in Congress introduced some inconsistencies in the Law,
which need to be corrected. This legislation establishes the organization of the power
subsector and the functions of the various institutions, defines the rules for granting
concessions, accessing the national power interconnected system (which remain
state-controlled), load dispatch, forming private distribution companies and installing
new power generation capacity by the private sectoi In particular, the Electricity
Law also clarifies the current and future role of ENEE in the power subsector and
provides guidelines for the transition.
21.   A National Electricity Commission ("Comisi6n Nacional de Energia
Electrica", CNEE) replaced the former National Energy Commission that drafted and
promoted the enactment of the Electricity Law. The CNEE is composed of 5
members and a small staff It advises an Energy Cabinet comprising the President of
Honduras and six Ministers, on matters related to energy policy, investment planning,
concessions, electricity pricing, the ground rules for the indicative expansion plans
and tariff calculation, and it oversees the overall performance of the sector and its
agents. It also approves the high voltage electricity tariff based on the long-run



6
marginal cost (5 years) of generation and transmission. While these changes were
sufficient to meet the condition of the ESAP, the procedures for setting tariffs have
been complicated by the Public Utilities Supervisory Commission (Comisi6n Nacional
Supervisora de Servicios Piiblicos, CNSSP), a largely political institution, which
continues to exert control over the sector.
22.    Strengthening the efficiency, planning andfinancial soundness of ENEE. In
retrospect, the design of the ESAP was inappropriate for the achievement of this
objective, which was, therefore, never fully met. The emphasis on enterprise
restructuring, rather than a more aggressive strategy to privatize electricity
distribution, proved inadequate to substantially improve ENEE's operational and
financial efficiency. The major original targets contained in the Contract Plan (or
Performance Contract) and the revised ones agreed in December 1994 between
ENEE and the Government, were not met. Specifically, in 1996 energy losses did not
decrease but remained high at 25 percent, accounts receivable were equivalent to 187
days of billing (target is 70 days)and market and financial indicators continued to be
unsatisfactory (Table 1.1).
Table 1.1 ENEE's Key Performance Indicators
Performance Indicator                  1991     1992     1993      1994     1995     1996
Sales (million kWh)         actual      1,769    1,685    1,821    1,699    1,986    2,100
target
Energy Losses (percent)     actual       24.0     26.7     28.6     27.3      26.3     25.0
target         -     22.0      20.0     17.0     23.0      19.0
Accounts receivable (days)  actual       113       106      107       75       90       187
target                120       90        90       80       70
Rate of Return (percent)    actual        6.1      6.6      6.2      0.9    -13.5      -3.7
target                6.9       7.4      7.0      3.4       5.1
Debtservicecoverage         actual       1.10     1.50     1.10      1.70     1.10     0.73
target                1.00   I1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00
Customers per employee      actual       114                126      148      159       184
target                    I                       188       188
Sales per employee (Gwh)    actual       515      528       561      484      613       776
target                         _                  960      960
Employees                   actual      3,049    3,194    3,237    2,992    2,764    2,677
target               3,220    3,210    3,238    3,013    2,627
Eq. outage duration (hours)  actual       20       1.5        0      18.7      3.9      3.9
target                                            9 0 9.0
Eq. outage frequency (°)    actual         0        0         0      2.5       7.3      4.3
target                                             8.5      8.5
23.    However, some progress has been achieved. For example, ENEE's investment
plan takes into account its new role in the power subsector and the expected
increased participation of the private sector in power generation and distribution.
Also a clearing house mechanism is now operating to compensate ENEE for overdue
accounts receivable from the public sector agencies and the Government. In
particular, periodic meetings of ENEE, the Ministry of Finance, and the Central Bank
are held to ensure that Government agencies are current in their payments to ENEE.



7
24.   Improvement of electricity pricing and resource allocalion in the sector.
Major progress has been achieved on this front, although problems remain.
Electricity tariffs, based on economic principles, as established in the new Electricity
Law, were implemented in January 1996 and subsidies were limited to residential
customers consuming less than 300 kWh per month. Electricity tariffs were increased
to an average level of 0.81 Lempiras/kWh, equivalent to 8.8 US cents/kWh, which
exceeded by 16 percent the value of 7.6 US cents/kWh (expressed in 1995 prices),
established in Schedule 4 of the Credit Agreement. Real tariffs did decline during
1996, but the average did remain at least 90 percent of ENEE's long-run marginal
cost. Table 1.2 shows the evolution of electricity tariffs during the period 1991-96. A
new tariff adjustment was subsequently approved and implemented in February 1997.
Table 1.2 Evolution of Electricity Tariffs During the Period 1991-1996
(Lempiras/kWh)
Category of Consumer 1991   1992  1993  1994  1994  1995  1996  % of
June  July          LRMC
Residential 0-20 kWh  1.75-' 1.759a/ 0.20   0.20   2.259a' 2.259a/ 6.00-4/  n.a.
Residential 2-00 kWh  0.23   0.26   0.20   0.20   0.29   0.29   0.60   59.0
Residen.101-300 kWh  0.23   0.43   0.33   0.33   0.44   0.44   0.88    86.0
Residen.301-500 kWh  0.29   0.65   0.41   0.47   0.81   0.81   1.02   100.0
Residential>500kWh 0.43   0.51   0.51   0.76   0.97   0.97   1.13   110.0
LowvoltageO-20kWh 8.15-a' 10.48a' 0.63   0.95   0.95   0.95   1.20   117.0
Low voltage > 20 kWh 0.43   0.55    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.  n.a.
Medium voltage       0.25   0.31   0.45   0.72   0.72   0.72   0.90   120.0
High voltage         0.23   0.25   0.34   0.58   0.58   0.58   0.84   120.0
Public Lighting       n.a.    n.a. 0.74   0.95   0.95   0.95   1.23   120.0
a/ Total price for any quantity within the range specified.
25.   Liberalization of petroleum products trade. Although there have been
improvements, this objective has been only partially met because some fuel prices
continue to be controlled by the Government. However, fuel prices reflect
international prices, relative price distortions have been eliminated, Government
subsidies are negligible and directed to a small market share (kerosene, which is used
mostly for cooking purposes by the poorer population), and fiscal transparency has
improved substantially. This has been accomplished by the liberalization of seven2 out
of twelve petroleum products and by the temporary control of prices of the remaining
five products based on a fuel price formula, established in agreement with the
Association, with the purpose of simulating the behavior of a liberalized fuel price
2   Fuel oil, Av-Jet, Lubricants, Jet-fuel, asphalt, Special Gasoline and Av-Gas 100/130 are not
under price controls. Regular and premium gasoline, diesel oil, kerosene and LPG remain
under import parity levels.



8
market. The elimination of subsidies resulted in the closure of the Puerto Cortes
refinery in 1993, the direct import of all fuels used in the country and new private
investment in downstream petroleum infrastructure. At present, the role of the
Government is increasingly one of regulation based on objective criteria, while private
sector companies are responsible for the import, storage, transport, and distribution of
petroleum products. The Government has not yet deregulated the prices of the five
remaining fuels, largely due to concern with the exercise of market power in a
relatively small market with few importers and distributors.
Table 1.3 Milestones in the Petroleum Liberalization Program
January 1991           Asphalt and Aviation Gasoline 100/130 prices were liberalized
December 1991          Credit became effectivc
November 1992          Aviation Jet and Shell Premium Gasoline prices were liberalized
All petroleum imports were open to private operators
Introduction of an import parity pricing formula
Elimination of refining margins
January 1993           Texaco closed Puerto Cortes refinery
Puerto Cortes was converted into an import terminal
September 1993         Petrosur oil terminal started operatioius
December 1993          Fuel oil price was liberalized
January 1994           Reina Administration took office
March 1994             Import parity price formula was adopted for all products
Environmental Code on petroleum and gas exploration was issued
November 1994          Gasoline tax was increased. All subsidies were eliminated
April/May 1995         Technical assistance in support of PLP began with IDB funds
May 1995               C. A. countries agreed to quality standards for petroleum products
November 1995          Unleaded gasoline was introduced
January 1996           Fuel oil and Aviation Jet-fuel prices were liberalized.
Import paritv pricc formula was revised
Pending                Liberalization of gasoline, diesel, kerosene and LPG prices for
domestic use
26.    With the purpose of strengthening its regulatory functions-and with IDB's
financial assistance and IDA's technical assistance-the Government has: (a)
strengthened the capacity of the Petroleum Administration Commission (CAP), to
monitor oil market prices; (b) enacted updated regulations for CAP and a new law for
commercialization and distribution of fuel products, (c) prepared official standards
and specifications for petroleum byproducts used in the country; and (d) authorized
ENEE, which consumes a large share of imported fuels, to import its fuel
requirements directly.3 Table 1.3 shows the major actions taken under the PLP.
3   Burdensome bureaucratic procedures and lack of specialized procurement specialists have
discouraged ENEE from making direct fuel imports.



9
27.   Petroleum exploration and production promotion. A review of the available
information and current legislation was carried out by consultants who recommended
the improvement of existing data on petroleum exploration and modification of
existing legislation to make attractive to international companies the exploration and
production of oil and gas in Honduras. With this in mind, proposed changes to the
hydrocarbon law were submitted to Congress. In addition, environmental regulations
to protect the environment from the effects of oil and gas exploration were enacted
through an executive decree dated March 1994 (it regulates Decree No. 194/84 of
October 1984).
28.   Carry out study and prepare action plan for inter-fuel substitution. This
study was completed in December 1992 and the action plan was submitted before the
release of the third tranche. However, the action plan has yet to be executed.
29.   Promotion of greater private sector participation in the development of the
energy sector. This objective has been substantially achieved, and much more is
expected to be accomplished in the future. Private participation in the import,
transport and distribution of petroleum products is already substantial, and the
restructuring of the power subsector, established by the new Electricity Law, has
provided the basis for private sector participation. For example, ENEE has entered
into two power purchase agreements (PPAs) with Independent Power Producers
(IPPs): one for an 80 MW thermal power plant that began operations in late 1994 and
reached its full capacity in 1995, and another of 40 MW, also for thermal generation,
that began operations in late 1995. Also, the thermal plants of La Ceiba (26 MW)
and Puerto Cortes (60 MW) were repaired under a 15-year Rehabilitate-Operate-
Maintain (ROM) agreement with private developers. Moreover, the Government has
decided to privatize ENEE's distribution system (para. 54).
30.   In achieving the objectives of the ESAP, the TA that was provided, was
particularly helpful in making available the needed experts and required studies.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Program
31.   The major factors adversely affecting the achievement of some of the
program 's objectives were changes in the degree of commitment by three
Administrations and lack of autonomy of ENEE compounded by uncontrollable
natural events-the 1990-94 drought that affected the power subsector.
32.   The credit became effective in December 1991, ahead of schedule, shortly
after Board approval, as the Callejas Administration had promptly complied with
conditions for effectiveness, and the first tranche was released. However, the
program lost momentum later in 1992 and in 1993, influenced by the events leading
up to and following the presidential election of November 1993. To meet the
conditions of the third tranche, the credit closing date was extended by six months to



10
June 30, 1994, then for one more year to June 30, 1995, and finally for an additional
nine months to March 31, 1996.
33.   Natural events worsened the problems of the power subsector. ENEE's
difficult operational and financial situation was compounded by a persistent drought
that affected the country from 1990 to 1994, effectively reducing ENEE's
hydroelectric generating capacity. In 1994, when reservoirs reached their lowest
levels and thernal plants were still out of service because of lack of timely
maintenance, ENEE's generating capacity could not meet the demand. Eventually,
there were severe power shortages, causing customer dissatisfaction and heavy
financial losses to ENEE and the economy. Finally, ENEE repaired its thermal plants,
and installed gas turbines loaned by Mexico to help solve the 1994 power shortages.
Program Cost and Financing, and Credit Disbursement
34.   IDA Credit 2306-HO was in the amount of SDR 37.9 million (US$50.6
million equivalent). In addition, parallel financing was provided by IDB through a
hybrid lending operation of US$105 million (US$50 million for adjustment and
US$55 million for investment in power system distribution) which also was to be
disbursed in three tranches. The IDB later added a fourth tranche of US$20 million
to its loan which it has not yet disbursed.
35.   Disbursement of the credit was accomplished in three tranches. The first
tranche release took place in December 1991, following credit effectiveness. The
second tranche was released in December 1992 and, following three credit closing
date extensions, the third tranche was released in February 1996, after IDA waived
non-compliance of two conditions (para. 50).
36.   IDA reflows. The Credit Agreement was amended twice to include IDA
reflows totaling SDR 47.7 million (US$65.9 million equivalent). The first reflow
amounted to US$32.5 million and was disbursed by April 1992. The second reflow
of US$33.4 million was disbursed by March 1994.
D. Bank Performance
37.   Program identification andpreparation was satisfactory overall, although
there were weaknesses in the design of the conditionalities to improve the operational
and financial performance of ENEE. The Bank identified the program in early 1988,
worked intensely over the period 1988-90, and gave strong support to the
Government in its preparation. Several missions, comprising energy economists,
financial analysts, and power and petroleum specialists, were carried out to identify
the priorities of the sector where the Government desired Bank support. A great deal
of relevant information was collected on electricity demand and projections, ENEE's
financial projections and its capability to service its debt, and the institutional
development needs in the energy sector as a whole, in the power subsector and in



11
ENEE in particular. Similarly, the situation in the petroleum subsector was
thoroughly analyzed.
38.   Based on the above, Bank staff prepared, submitted, and discussed with the
Administrations of President Azcona initially and President Callejas afterwards, drafts
of energy policy letters, operational and financial plans to improve ENEE's
performance and related tariff actions, as well as proposals for the liberalization of the
petroleum subsector and terms of reference for the technical assistance and studies
contemplated in the program. This work led to the design of the ESAP.
39.   In addition, the Bank coordinated actively with the IDB and USAID and
agreed on the sharing of responsibilities. The IDB was to provide parallel financing
to support power distribution investments through a hybrid operation and USAID
was to continue its then ongoing program in support of institutional development.
Within the Bank, the energy sector staff closely coordinated with country sector staff
and with the IMF.
40.   Program appraisal was completed before satisfactorily resolving some key
outstanding issues and, therefore, the Bank's performance at appraisal is judged to
be deficient. The ESAP was appraised in January 1991 (during the Government of
President Callejas) by a joint mission of the Bank and the IDB. The Bank mission
comprised an appropriate mix of skills: an energy economist, a financial analyst, a
power engineer, petroleum and energy specialists, and a lawyer.
41.   The appraisal mission was unable to complete the appraisal in the field
because of the lack of definition on the part of the Government on key issues and
disagreement between the Bank and the Government on some proposals. On the
petroleum subsector, the Government did not share the Bank's view on the need to
proceed with prompt deregulation of petroleum products trade, and of having
technical assistance for improving legislation and negotiating capacity to attract
petroleum companies for oil exploration. On the energy sector institutional set up,
the Bank did not find acceptable the Government's proposal to create an Energy
Commission through a decree and not through legislation. In the power subsector,
the Bank did not find acceptable the Government's proposal to grant autonomy to
ENEE gradually over an undefined time frame, and not immediate full autonomy. At
the same time, the appraisal mission was informed by the Government that it was not
supportive of the Bank's proposal to improve ENEE's weak finances by increasing
electricity tariffs a modest two percent per month.4 Consequently, appraisal could not
be completed in the field.
42.   Bank management requested the Government to define its position on the
pending issues and to hold further discussions on their proposed options to determine
4  Appraisal mission Back-to-Office Report dated February 8, 1991.



12
whether it was appropriate for the Bank to continue processing the ESAP.5 A
Honduran delegation visited the Bank. While some issues were resolved, other key
ones remained outstanding. Nevertheless, the Bank decided to complete its appraisal
and proceed with negotiations. Because several substantive outstanding issues were
not satisfactorily resolved before proceeding to the next stage, the Bank's
performance during appraisal is rated as deficient. Subsequent problems encountered
during implementation can be traced in part to the fact that these issues were not fully
addressed at appraisal and negotiations.
43.   Negotiations took place in Washington in August 1991, jointly with the IDB.
At negotiations, agreements were reached on the Program, including: the letter of
energy development policy; the decree for the creation of CNEE; the PLP; the
elimination of subsidies for electricity consumers; ENEE's contract plan and
operational and financial rehabilitation programs and the terms of reference for the
studies to be carried out by consultants (institutional reform, inter-fuel substitution,
petroleum exploration and related environmental regulations, petroleum contracts,
and the deregulation of petroleum prices).
44.   Overall program supervision was satisfactory. The Bank carried out
extensive supervision work for the ESAP through field missions comprising teams
with appropriate professional skills. The quality of follow-up on documentation
submitted by the Government and ENEE to the Bank was also good. Most of the
field missions were carried out jointly with the IDB and, in Washington, Bank
operational staff coordinated periodically with their counterparts at the IDB.
45.   The Bank gave good advice, not always heeded by the Government, about the
importance of carrying out a complete and prompt deregulation of petroleum
products trade, and the need to increase electricity tariffs and eliminate subsidies at a
fast pace, and to give full autonomy to ENEE as a way to improve its financial and
operational performance. These points were always at issue and non-compliance with
the related covenants delayed the release of the second and third tranches of the
Credit, the latter well beyond original estimates. In this respect, the Bank was very
flexible and extended the Credit closing date three times to allow more time for
compliance (para. 33).
E. Borrower Performance
46.   The assessment of Borrower performance is based on the results achieved by
the three Administrations which participated, with varying degrees of commitment, to
the program objectives, from program identification in 1988 to completion in 1996.
The Azcona Administration was involved in the identification and initial preparation
of the energy sector adjustment program. The Callejas Administration completed
5  Letter to the Minister of Finance sent by LAC Vice President on February 8, 1991.



13
program preparation and began its implementation. Finally, the Reina Administration
completed most of the program implementation.
47.   Although Borrower commitment to the ESAP objectives was high at the onset
of preparation, by the time of appraisal, this commitment had weakened somewhat.
During the preparation phase of the ESAP, the Government cooperated actively with
the Bank and other multilateral agencies. Despite political instability in the country
and a change of Government, all the concerned ministries were enthusiastically
involved in the preparation of the ESAP, very receptive of Bank contributions, and
valued the Bank's assistance and support that extended over three Administrations.
However, by the time of appraisal, the Callejas Government no longer had a clear
position or expressed less than full commitment to some measures intended to address
important issues, such as deregulating petroleum products, granting autonomy to
ENEE, and increasing electricity tariffs in a significant and quick manner (para. 40-
42). Later, these issues remained unsolved and were in the limelight during the
implementation phase of the ESAP. For these reasons, the Borrower 's performance
at appraisal is rated as deficient.
48.   Program implementation was significantly delayed and therefore the
Borrower 's implementation performance is rated as deficient overall. Part II, Table
5: Key Indicators of Program Implementation, shows the accomplishments of the
ESAP. It can be added that implementation of the program had a good start during
1991-92 but slowed down significantly after release of the first tranche.
49.   Much of the progress achieved in the early 1990s was lost in the events
leading up to and following the presidential election of November 1993. In January
1994, the Reina Administration gradually resumed implementation of the ESAP which
culminated in the approval by Congress of the new Electricity Law in November
1994. However, progress in the operational and financial rehabilitation of ENEE was
thwarted by the 1994 drought and ensuing shortage of electricity. In 1994, the
application of the import parity pricing formula for petroleum products and the
enactment of the environmental code on petroleum exploration, were the only
achievements in the PLP. In late 1995 and early 1996, the Government activated the
implementation of the ESAP with the aim of meeting the conditions for the release of
the third tranche. It focused on implementing the Electricity Law, enacting its
regulations, improving ENEE operations, liberalizing two more petroleum products
(fuel-oil and aviation jet-fuel), revising the import parity price formula, and
developing a formula for adjusting electricity tariffs based on changes in fuel prices,
and the foreign exchange rate.
50.   Compliance with covenants was on balance satisfactory. Most of the
covenants were met, although with some delay, and two were only partially met. The
latter related to the operational and financial rehabilitation of ENEE, and the full
liberalization of the petroleum subsector. These two covenants were among the
conditions for the release of the third tranche and when it became clear that they



14
could not be met in full within a reasonable time, a waiver was finally sought by the
Borrower and granted by IDA (Table 10).
F. Assessment of Program Outcome and Sustainability
51.   The outcome of the ESAP is rated as marginally satisfactory. The Program
achieved most of its principal objectives, although with considerable delay and some
questions regarding longer-term sustainability (para. 53). The following main
accomplishments were achieved: (i) a new electricity law was enacted in November
1994, laying the foundation for the reform of the power subsector, and the
implementation of its regulatory framework-although it needs some fine tuning-is
almost fully completed; (ii) actions are underway to privatize all power distribution
networks; (iii) the economic principles for setting tariffs are clearly established, and
subsidies are given only to relatively low-income consumers; (iv) the private sector is
participating in electric power generation; and (vi) liberalization of the petroleum
subsector has gone a long way by aligning prices of petroleum products with
international prices and eliminating most of the subsidies.
52.   The sustainability of the ESAP is still uncertain. Although there has been no
reversal of the actions taken in compliance with the conditions of the Credit
Agreement, the Government has not yet granted CNEE the full authority it requires
to regulate all electricity tariffs although it is currently preparing an amendment to the
Electricity Law which is intended to address this issue. Until tariffs are removed from
the political arena and allowed to reach commercial levels, the private sector is
unlikely to increase its participation in the power subsector.
G. Future Operation
53.   Privatization of ENEE. Due to the very limited success achieved in improving
ENEE's operational and financial performance and in reducing electricity losses, the
Government has now opted to privatize ENEE's distribution system. This is a
welcome and superior goal from that of the original adjustment program as it
provides more permanent and sustainable solution. Toward this aim, consultants
financed by the IDB are assisting the Government and ENEE in: (i) implementing a
program to form power distribution companies and privatize them, and (ii) improving
ENEE's billing, collection and accounting systems. A pilot program is being carried
out on this latter front.
54.   Action Plan for the power subsector. A recent Executive Decree6 includes
actions to restructure ENEE and improve its performance, reduce energy losses,
promote private sector participation in the development of future power plans, and
transfer ENEE's distribution operations to private companies. The success in
6   Executive Decree No. PCM-044-95, dated November 1995. published in the Official Gazette on
August 17, 1996.



15
implementing this plan will depend in large part on the extent to which price
regulation is extricated from the political process as was the intent of the Electricity
Law and the creation of CNEE.
55.   Energy sector performance indicators. Table 6, Part II of the ICR, lists the
set of indicators agreed with the Government to monitor the future performance of
the energy sector. Since ENEE is expected to be privatized, CNEE would be in
charge of monitoring the indicators of power subsector performance, including
private power distribution companies. Monitoring of the petroleum subsector, in
particular prices, will continue to be done by CAP.
H. Key Lessons Learned
56.   Based on this operation's experience, four important lessons can be drawn:
57.   Lesson 1. Some of the delays encountered during implementation might have
been avoided had the Bank at appraisal waited until it reached satisfactory agreement
with the Government on several key issues. Admittedly, this would have delayed the
launching of the Program, but on balance it probably would have led to an even better
outcome. If this had not proved possible, an alternative might have been to design a
less ambitious program, more in line with what the Government at the time
considered that it could implement, even if this had resulted in a more modest
resource transfer to support the balance of payments.
58.   Lesson 2. Adapting successful models from other countries can be extremely
helpful in preparing a reform program and the Bank is well placed to facilitate this
kind of cross-country transfer of knowledge and experience. In this case, the Chilean
Electricity Law, enacted in 1982, served as a sound basis on which the Honduran
Electricity Law was designed.
59.   Lesson 3. Adjustment lending aims to support both structural reforms and to
alleviate the country's balance of payments constraints, with the latter often requiring
relatively quick disbursements. Consequently, major conditions should be required up
front (i.e. for Board presentation), and a few others (aimed at making the program
sustainable) for the release of not more than a second tranche. If it is foreseen that
the complexity of the sector adjustment requires a longer implementation period, it
would be advisable to explore options for doing it through more than one lending
operation, over perhaps a longer period of time.
60.   Lesson 4. A Contract Plan (or Performance Contract) between the
Government and a Government-owned power utility, may not be an effective
mechanism for improving the operational and financial performance of the sector or
the utility. It may be more appropriate to concentrate efforts on reducing the role and
monopoly status of the public utility and correspondingly increasing the participation
of the private sector. This, in fact, is the Government's present policy, with its plan
to privatize ENEE's distribution functions.



16
Implementation Completion Report
Honduras
Energy Sector Adjustment Program
(Credit 2306-HO)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of            Substantial       Partial        Negligible    Not applicable
objectives
Macro-economic policies                          X
Sector policies                                  X
Financial objectives                             X
Institutional development                        X
Physical objectives                                                               X
Poverty reduction                                                                 X
Gender concerns                                                                   x
Other social objectives                                                           X
Environmental objectives                         X
Public sector management                         X
Private sector development                       X
B. Program sustainability          Likely               Unlikely           Uncertain
Operational & Policy                                                           X
C. Bank performance          Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                             X 
Preparation assistance                                     X
Appraisal                                                                      X
Supervision                                                X
D. Borrower performance       Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Appraisal                                                                      X
Implementation                                                                 X
Covenant compliance         _
Future Operation                                           X
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
X*
*/Marginally satisfactory.



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit           Title              Principal      Date of Approval        Status
No.                                 US$ million)
C-2306          Energy Sector            115.2          October 1991         Closed
Adjustment Credit                                            March 1996
C-2417         Morazan Dam               12.00          August 1992          Closed
Emergency Project
L-1861      Petroleum Exploration         3.0            May 1980            Closed
Project
L-1805     El-Caj6n Power Project       105.00          March, 1980          Closed
C-0989                                   20.00             _              February 1987
L-1629      Nispero Power Project        30.50         November, 1978        Closed
_____________             June  1984
L-1081       Sixth Power Project         35.00          January, 1975        Closed
December 1981
L-0841       Fifth Power Project         12.30           June, 1972          Closed
December 1981
L-0692      Fourth Power Project         5.50            June, 1970     Closed-Dec, 1975
C-0201                                   6.23                           Loan- June 1974
L-0541        Rio Lindo Hydro-           7.50            May, 1968           Closed
C-01 16        Electric Project          4.81              _                June, 1972
L-0261           Canaveral               8.80            June, 1960          Closed
Hydro-Electric Project                          _              March 1964
L-0226      Interim Power Project-       1.45            May, 1959           Closed
March 1963
TOTAL:                424.92



18
Table 3: Pro ram Timetable
Steps in project cycle                        Date planned             Actual date
Identification                                                 April, 1988
Preparation                                 NA                 June 1988 -November 1990
Appraisal                                                      January, 1991
Negotiations                                                    September, 1991
Letter of Development Policy                                   August 26, 1991
Board Presentation                                             October 31, 1991
Signing                                                        November 5, 1991
Effectiveness                               February 04, 1992   December 20, 1991
First tranche release                       February 04, 1992   December 20, 1991
Amendment # I                               NA                 January 22, 1992
Amendment # 2                               NA                 February 17, 1992
Second tranche release.                     August, 1992       December 16, 1992
Third tranche release                       March, 1993        February 13, 1996
Project Completion                          June 30, 1993      March 31, 1996
Loan Closing                                December 31, 1993  March 31, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousand)
_   FY92        FY93        FY94        FY95         FY96
Appraisal Estimnate             20,000     35,000      50,000       50,000       50,000
Actual                          21,397     37,391      37,430       37,465       53,823
Actual as % of Estimate         107.0       106.8       74.9         74.9        107.6
Date of final disbursement:                               April 19, 1996



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Program Imp lementation
Implementation Indicators in             Estimated                       Actual
President's Report
1. Progress achieved by the     By the release of the second    Achieved, although not quite
Borrower in carrying out the    tranche (August 1992)           continuous (December 1992)
ESAP is continuous and strong
2. Macroeconomic policy          By the release of the second   The policy framework was
framework is consistent with the    tranche (August 1992)       developed (December 1992)
objectives of the ESAP
3. Carry out inter-fuel substitution   Before the release of the second  Completed and submitted.
study                           tranche (August 1992)           (December 1992)
4. Furnish plan based on results of  By the release of the third tranche   Action plan was submitted
the inter-fuel substitution study  (March 1993).                (January 1996).
5. GOH to prepare and submit    By the release of the third tranche   Completed and submitted in
guidelines for the power subsector   (March 1993).              January 1996.
6. Prepare and submit action plan    Study to start before the release of  The action plan was prepared
for the reforms to be implemented   the second tranche (August 1992)  and submitted. The key
by the Government and ENEE       and submitted before the release of institutional reforms were
based on the results of the      the third tranche (March 1993)    incorporated in it. (December
institutional reform study                                       1992 and January 1996)
7. Prepare and implement the    By the release of the third tranche   Partially achieved. Waiver
OFRAP of ENEE, including the    (March 1993).                   granted before release of third
contract Plan.                                                  tranche (February 1996)
8. Increase ENEE's electricity   Before the release of the third  Average electricity tariffs were
tariffs to an average level of no less  tranche (March 1993).   increased to the required levels
than 90% of its LRMC; no tariff                                 and structure in January 1996.
category set at a level of less than                            The tariff schedule is based on
80% of its LRMC. Subsidies only                                 LRMC pricing principles
for residential consumption of 300                              established in the new
kWh or less per month                                           Electricity Law of October
1994.
9. Implement the Petroleum      First phase to be completed by the  First phase completed in
Liberalization Program in two    release of the second tranche  December 1992. Second phase
phases                          (August 1992). Second phase, by  was partially completed and
release of the third tranche (March  waiver granted (February 1996)
1993).
10. Submit certified copies of audit  Before the release of the second    Audit reports were submitted in
reports for the expenditures     and third tranches (August 1992    December 1992 and January
financed out of the IDA credit  and March 1993).                1996
11. Develop, submit and enact   Develop and submit by the release  The required regulations and
regulations to protect the      of the second tranche (August   legislation were submitted and
environment from the effects of the   1992) and enact before the release  enacted by December 1992 and
exploration of oil and gas.      of the third tranche (March 1993).  January 1996
12. Demonstrate no reversal of the   By the release of the third tranche   A sustainable reform program
actions taken in compliance with    (March 1993).               in the energy sector was in
the first and second tranches of the                            progress before the third tranche
Credit.                                                         was released in February 1996



20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Program peration
Indicators                                 1997 -- 2MOD
Power Subsector
1. Technical indicators:
Installed capacity (MW)
- Hydroelectric
- Thermal
Peak demand (MW)
Reserve margin (MW and %)_
Annual seneration (GWh)
- Hydroelectric
- Thermnal
2. Market penetration
Number of customers       _
Annual sales (GWh)
Sales growth rate (%)
Service coverage (%)
- Urban
- Rural
3. Financial indicators (ENEE)
Average electricity price at high and low (Lps/MWh)
Rate of return on assets (%)
Cash operating margin (%)
Self financing ratio
Debt service coverage ratio
Debt/Equity ratio ceiling
Accounts receivable (days of billing)
4. Efficiency indicators (ENEE)
Number of employees:
Number of customers per employee-
Sales per employee (GWh)
Energy losses (%o)
Average duration of outages (hours)
Frequency of outages
Generation availability (%)
- Hydroelectric
- Thermal
Fuel consumption (kCal/kWh)
Petroleum Subsector (for each product)
Price Lp. per unit (of petroleum product)                  __
Volume of sales
Volume of imports
Volume of national production
Import duties and taxes
1/ Indicator values to be monitored by CNEE (para 55).



21
Table 7: Studies Included in the Program
No.         Study          Purpose as defined at Appraisal Status     Impact of Study
1.  Inter-fuel substitution   To investigate the potential for    Completed    Negligible:
and energy saving    energy saving and inter-fucl  and          recommendations
study                substitution and to recommend an  submitted    have not yet been
_ ___________________   action plan                I    _I implemented
Table 8: Program Cost and Financing
Appraisal Estimate US$m)              Actual( S$m)
Item          Local Costs  Foreign Costs   Total      Foreign Costs    Total
1. Imported goods                     50.0          50.0          50.00        50.00
2. Technical Assistant                 0.6           0.6          0.60         0.60
Totat IDA-Credit     I50.6                          50.6          50.6         50.6
IDB committed a US$105 million hybrid loan to the project, as parallel financing, of which US$55 million
was for adjustment and US$50 million for investment components. This, however, is not considered part
of the IDA project financing.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit                 Original      Revised
Agreement   Status         Date         Dates     Covenant Description      Comments
Section
2.03           OK      12/31/93        06/30/94  Closing date for         Closed 3/31/96
06/30/95  disbursements
03/31/96
3.01 b) c)     OK      Periodically              Present periodic progress    Done
reports and exchange
views with IDA
3.04 a)        OK                                Borrower to keep separate   Done
accounts for expenditures
of the credit
3.04 b) i)     OK      Periodically              Accounts to be audited by   Done with delays
independent auditors
3.04 b) ii)    OK      First tranche,            Borrower to present      Done with delays
OK     Second tranche,           audited reports for the
OK     Third tranche             expenditures financed with
each tranche.
3.04 c) i),    OK      Periodically              Borrower to maintain,    None
ii), iii),iv)                                    keep, and present audits
for separate records of
statement of expenditures
5.02           OK      02/04/92        12/20/91  Conditions for Credit    None
effectiveness and release of
first tranche
Schedule 1     OK      08/92          06/30/94  Conditions for disbursing   Conditions were
Para 5)                                          second tranche           met with delays
Schedule I     OK      03/93          03/31/96   Conditions for disbursing   Waived two
Para 6)       partial                           third tranche             conditions not
met
Schedule 4,    OK      08/92          06/30/94   Detailed description of the  None
Part I                                           actions needed for second
tranche release
Schedule 4,    OK      03/93          03/31/96  Detailed description of the  Waived two
Part II       partial                            actions needed for third  conditions not
I___ _ _   I_____ _  tranche release  met.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All the statements of the Operations Manual have been complied with.



23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of               Number   Days    Specialized          Rating         Rating'        Types of
Project Cycle    Date       of        in      Staff Skill   Implementation   Development    Problems
______________  Persons   Field   Represented    Status        Objectives
Identification  4/18/88       3        18       FA,E,C           NA              NA
to 5/6/88
Preparation 1    6/2/88       3        10       FA,E,C           NA              NA
Preparation 2    9/6/88       3        12       FA,E,C           NA              NA
Preparation 3    11/9/88      3        10        FA,E            NA              NA
Preparation 4    3/27/90      2        10         FA             NA              NA
Preparation 5   4/16/90       1        5          Sp             NA              NA
Preparation 6    5/20/90      2        15         FA             NA              NA
Preparation 7    6/05/90      3        10        FA,E            NA              NA        .
Preparation 8   11/11/90      1        5          FA             NA              NA
Through          1/14/91      4        12     TM,FA,E,Ec         NA              NA
Appraisal        2/- /91      7        17     FA,E,Sp,L,
Appraisal -     4/09/91       1        11         FA              NA             NA
Board Approval  4/27/91       1        7           C
Approval -        NA        NA        NA          NA             NA              NA
Effectiveness
Supervision 1    2/27/92     2         5         FA,E             2               1
Supervision 2   4/15/92      2         5         FA,E             2               1
Supervision 3    7/28/92     3         5        FA,E,Sp           2               2        Fuel substit.-
study, delayed
Supervision 4    9/19/92     2                .
Supervision 5    12/17/92    3         5        FA,E,E            2               1        Delays in
implementing
tariffs/reforms
Supervision 6    1/29/93     4         5      FA,C,Sp,Sp          I               1
Supervision 7   5/21/93      4         4      FA,E,Sp,Sp          2               2
Supervision 8   9/29/93      4
Supervision 9    5/09/94     2         5        TM,SP             3               3
Supervision 10    9/19/94    2         5         E,Sp
Supervision 11    9/30/94     2        5         E,Sp             3               3
Supervision 12    3/27/95    3         5        E,Sp,Sp           S               S        Operational
and financial
rehab. plans
.________                delayed
Supervision 13    9/6/95     3         5        Ec,E,C            U               U        Liberalization
of oil prices
delayed
Completion      6/26/96       2        5         E,Sp             S               S
ICR Mission     01/13/97      1        5           C          Marginally        Partial
Satisfactory



24
Table 12 (continued): Bank Resources: Missions
Key to specialized staff skills:
TM    = Task Manager
E      = Engineer
Ec    = Economist
FA     = Financial Analyst
L      = Lawyer
Sp.    = Specialist
C      = Consultant
Key to ratings: Implementation status as shown in Supervision Form 590:
1= no significant problems;
2= moderate problems;
3= major problems, actions being taken;
4= major problems, actions yet to be addressed;
NA= Not Applicable
Key to ratings: Development objectives as shown in Supervision Form 590:
I=all objectives substantially achieved;
2= major objectives achieved, minor objectives remained;
3= major objectives are likely to be achieved;
4= major objectives not achieved;
NA= Not applicable/Not available
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inp uts
Stage of Project cycle      Planned               Revised                Actual
Weeks       US$        Weeks       US$       Weeks   US$000)
Through Appraisal        NA        NA          NA         NA       168.5      534.4
Appraisal-Board          NA        NA          NA         NA        20.1       58.0
Board-Effectiveness      NA        NA          NA         NA
Supervision              NA        NA          NA         NA        87.3      402.4
Completion               NA        NA          NA         NA         4.0       12.0
TOTAL                I_        I          I _                      279.9     1,006.8



25
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE OF THE ICR MISSION
(Translation from Spanish version which is in Program File)






26
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
HONDURAS
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Credit 2306-HO
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A Mission of the International Development Association (IDA) comprising by Mr. Alvaro J.
Covarrubias, IDA Consultant, visited Honduras on January 13-17, 1997, to: (a) discuss the draft of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) prepared by IDA; and (b) assist the Government of Honduras in
the preparation of its own program Completion Report for the Energy Sector Adjustment Program financed
with Credit 2306-HO. The Mission wishes to express its gratitude for the efficient cooperation and the
courtesies provided to the Mission both by Government authorities and by the officials and staff of the
institutions participating in the Program. Annex I includes a list of the officials and staff with whom the
Mission met. Following is a summary of the most important issues covered by the Mission and the
corresponding agreements.
Evaluation Report Prepared by the Association (ICR)
2.     The Government and its agencies provided their comments on the initial ICR draft to the IDA
Mission. Only CNSSP and CNEE provided their comments in writing; all the other agencies involved
provided oral comments. The Mission will take into account all the valuable comments received, which
will be reflected in the final version of the ICR.
Supplementary Information Received to Finalize the ICR
3.     The Mission received copies of the following documents: (1) the proposal to readjust tariffs for
final consumers for 1997 (CNSSP); (2) the last quarterly progress report (November 1996) of the Contract
Plan (ENEE); (3) ENEE performance indicators for the period 1991-1996 (ENEE); and (4) evolution of
tariffs to the final consumer for the period 1991-1996 (CNEE and CNSSP).
4.     By January 27, 1997, ENEE will send to the Association the following: (1) 1991-1996 financial
results (operating performance, source and use of funds, and balance sheet) and their comparison with the
projections made in 1991; and (2) a document showing the evolution of the amount of the domestic and
foreign debt, Government contributions to ENEE, and the annual treatment of the remaining debt left after
deducting the compensation for electric services provided to the Government.
Program Completion Report Prepared by the Government
5.     The Government prepared a Program completion report which was submitted to the Mission.
UDAPE prepared the report which contains the input from all the agencies that participated in the Program.
The Association will include the report as an appendix to the ICR.
6.     UDAPE maintains that the experience acquired in the preparation of the report has been very
beneficial to all the agencies contributing to it. On the one hand, it has allowed them to make an objective
assessment of the extent of the Program objectives have been achieved and, on the other hand, it has



27
allowed them to reflect on the experience of the process during its implementation and derive useful lessons
for the future. Moreover, they also appreciate the value in carrying out an ex-post self-evaluation as part
of the process upon the completion of the implementation of a project or program.
Future Program Operation Plan
7.     The Government reported to the Mission that it seriously intends to continue to apply the necessary
measures to consolidate the reforms carried out under the Program. To that end: (a) CAP will continue
applying the automatic price adjustments to oil products which are calculated with a parity formula of the
non-deregulated fuel prices such as those for regular and premium gasoline, kerosene, and liquefied gas for
household use; (b) consolidation of the regulation and monitoring functions conferred to CNEE and
CNSSP by the energy sector frame law and its regulations. The inconsistencies contained in this law will
be eliminated through amendments to the same; and (c) first, the Government intends to initiate
privatization of ENEE's distribution services as soon as CNEE makes a decision on the recommendations
contained in the regionalization study of electric power distribution presented by ENEE. The study was
carried out by a consultant contracted by ENEE specifically for that purpose and it has already been
reviewed by CNEE.
8.     Besides, ENEE is implementing the immediate plan of action for the electric subsector, in
accordance with Executive Decree Number PCM-044-95.
9.     The Government's commitment with the objectives of the program is verified by the fact that the
increase in electricity tariffs to the final consumers for 1997 was approved by the CNSSP Secretariat at the
beginning of January 1997. This increase is based on the effects on marginal costs of both the variation of
the exchange rate and the price of fuel used in generating electricity. Average tariff to the final consumer
during 1997 would range from 21% and 25% above those in effect in 1996. Its ratification and
implementation was to be decided during a plenary session of CNSSP convened for January 23, 1997.
Amendments to the Electricity Law
10.    The Government, CNEE, and CNSSP agree that it is indispensable to make amendments to the
law. On the one hand, consensus on the amendments is being sought among the sector stockholders in
order to send them to Congress with the certainty that changes that have not been contemplated will not be
introduced which may alter the institutional nature of the law and the processes already consolidated,
particularly those related to the jurisdiction of both CNEE and CNSSP to regulate and monitor the electric
power subsector. Seeking consensus may be a slow process. But, on the other hand, it would be
convenient to eliminate as soon as possible the tax on generation bus tariffs, which is blocking the interest
of investors whom would generate or consume at distribution buses. At present, the Government, CNEE,
and CNSSP have agreed to adhere to the spirit of the law in interpreting the text of those aspects of the
frame law and its regulations that are in conflict.
11.    CNEE and CNSSP are working closely in the calculation, readjustment, approval and
implementation of electric tariffs, as follows: (i) application of the basic economic principle that the tariff
should recover the cost of service provided to the consumer; (ii) the tariff to the final consumer is the
aggregate of the distribution bus tariff (marginal generation cost plus transmission) plus the added value of
distribution; (iii) the distribution bus tariff is readjusted by the variations of the exchange rate and the fuel
price affecting the generators and their transmission; (iv) the tariff to the final consumer is readjusted with
the proportion corresponding to the increased bus tariff plus the readjustments to the current tariff based on
exchange rate variations and the price of fuel; (v) ENEE submits for CNEE's approval a proposal for



28
distribution bus tariffs based on the long-run marginal cost (5 years) of the generators and their
transmission up to the distribution buses; (vi) CNSSP approves and implements the bus tariffs; and (vii)
CNSSP calculates, approves, and implement the tariffs to the final consumer.
Indicators to Supervise and Evaluate the Performance of the Energy Sector
12.    The indicators that the Government will use in the future supervision and evaluation of the
performance of the energy sector are shown in Annex 2. The compilation and analyses of the indicators
will be performed by CNEE for the electric power subsector and CAP for the petroleum subsector.
Status of ENEE's Technical and Financial Operations
13.    Even though the objectives of the Plan Contract were only partially achieved, ENEE has
experienced an improvement in its technical and financial operations during the last two years. Load
dispatch is performed on the basis of the economic merits of the generators, and the economic benefits
derived from power and energy exchanges with neighboring countries. The speed and quality of billing and
collection systems, as well as customer service, have improved, particularly those of wholesale consumers
(more than 30,000 kWh per month). However, the burden of servicing ENEE's enormous debt impede the
financial indicators from reflecting the increase in administrative efficiency. It is expected that the
negotiations that will take place in the near future with the Paris Club may alleviate ENEE's foreign debt
service.
Progress in the Petroleum Deregulation Program
14.   This Program has had some success in eliminating subsidies in regulated prices on kerosene and
liquefied gas for household use. CAP considers that the formulas used to regulate regular and premium
gasoline prices reflect well the supply and demand conditions currently prevailing in the country. The
fornulas simulate the costs in the chain of agents intervening from the origin of petroleum byproducts up to
the final consumer. However, CAP evaluated the advantages and disadvantages to consumers and
distributors that using the petroleum price in the Gulf Coast of the United States instead of the Caribbean
posting price presently in use would have on the regulated price formulas. CAP is currently negotiating
such change with importers.
Timetable for Issuance of the ICR
15.    The Association will take into account the comments presented to the Mission and will proceed to
prepare the final draft of the ICR towards the end of January 1997. Subsequently, the final draft of the
ICR will be sent to the Government for conmments. The summary of the program completion report
prepared by UDAPE and the comments to the final draft of the ICR will be attached to the ICR as
appendices. It is estimated that the ICR could be ready for submission to the Association's Executive
Board in March 1997.
Annexes (2)
Tegucigalpa, January 17, 1997
Alvaro J. Covarrubias                     Lic. Sandra de Midence
Consultant                                Director
Intemational Development Association      Economic Policy Analysis Unit



29
Annex 1
Completion Evaluation Report on the Energy Sector Adjustment Program
Credit 2306-HO
List of Officials Met
Name                               Position                    Ministry or Agency
Dr. Guillermo Bueso                Coordinator                 GAEC
Eng. Jer6nimo Sandoval             Minister                    AGMA
Lic. Daniel Figueroa               Vice President              BCH
Lic. Julio Gonzalez                Vice Minister               MEC
Eng. Percy A. Buck                 Vice Minister               MRN
Lic. Cesar Carranza                Vice Minister               MHCP
Lic. Orlando Gamer                 Public Credit Director      MHCP
Lic. Miguel Villela                General Director            DGMH
Eng. Victor Guadr6n                Assistant Director          DGMH
Lic. Suyapa Funes                  Analyst                     BCH
Lic. Sandra de Midence             Director                    UDAPE
Lic. Jorge Humberto Ramos          Chief, Implementation Division UDAPE
Lic. Victor Hugo Molina            Analyst                     UDAPE
Lic. Gustavo Saienz                Analyst                     UDAPE
Lic. Miguel Angel F1unez           President                   CAP
Lic. Neftali Alvarenga Pefia       Technical Secretary         CNSSP
Lic. Miguel Leyva                  Technical Professional      CNSSP
Lic. Rosibel Ramos                 Technical Professional      CNSSP
Eng. Mauricio Merino               Technical Professional      CNSSP
Eng. Gerardo Salgado               President                   CNEE
Lic. Wilfredo Gir6n Castillo       Commissioner                CNEE
Eng. Filadelfo Canales M.          Commissioner                CNEE
Eng. Jose Augusto Gross M.         Commissioner                CNEE
Eng. Jorge Santos                  Finance Manager             ENEE
Eng. Gilberto A. Ramos             Technical Manager           ENEE
Lic. Aracely Leprec Posse          Assistant Manager
Financial Office            ENEE
ACRONYMS
GAEC          =      Economic Cabinet, Office of the Presidency
UDAPE         =      Economic Policy Analysis Unit
MAGMA         =      Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment
MRN           =      Ministry of Natural Resources
MEC           =      Ministry of Finance
MHCP                 Ministry of the Treasury and Public Credit
BCH           =      Central Bank of Honduras
CNEE          =      National Electric Regulatory Commission
CAP           =      Petroleum Administration Commission
DGMH                 General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons



30
Annex 2
Completion Evaluation Report on the Energy Sector Adjustment Program
Loan 2306-HO
Future Operation Plan of the Energy Sector Adjustment Program
Indicators to Supervise and Evaluate the Performance of the Energy Sector
A. Electricity Subsector
1.    Technical Indicators
Installed Capacity (MW)
Hydraulic
Thermal
Maximum Demand (MW)
Reserve Margin (MW and %)
Annual Generation (GWh)
Hydraulic
Thermal
2.    Market Share
Number of clients
Annual sales (Gwh)
Annual Increase (%)
Service Coverage (%/O)
Urban
Rural
3. ENEE Financial Indicators
Average Price (Lp/kWh)
Profitability (%)
Operational cash margin (%)
Contribution to investment program (%/o)
Coverage of Long Term Debt Service
Debt equity ratio
Collection period (days)
Current ratio
Uncollected debts (000's of Lps)
4. ENEE Efficiency Indicators
Number of employees
Clients per employee
Sales per employee (GWh)
Losses of energy (GWh and %)
Equivalent duration of interruptions (hours per client per year)
Equivalent frequency of interruptions (number per client per year)
Generation availability
Hydroelectric
Thermnal
Specific fuel consumption (kCal/kWh or fuel grams/kWh)



31
B. Petroleum Subsector
1.    Prices to final consumer of petroleum byproducts
2.    Sales volume for each petroleum byproduct
3.    Imports volume for each petroleum byproduct
4.    Domestic production volume for each petroleum byproduct
5.    Import tariffs on petroleum byproducts



32
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






33
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CREDIT 2306-HO
I.     Background, Objectives and Components
1.    In view that the energy sector is considered strategic for the economic development of the country,
the need for an adequate regulatory framework and the implications derived from the financial situation of
Empresa Nacional de Energia Electrica (ENEE) that progressively depended on Government financial
assistance, especially with respect to debt service payments, the Government of Honduras designed, with
assistance from the World Bank (WB) and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Energy
Sector Adjustment Program as a supplement to the structural adjustment and stabilization program initiated
in 1990. In October 1991, the World Bank approved an operation for Honduras with soft resources (IDA)
in the amount of US$50.6 million, with additional IDA reflows of US$32.5 million and US$33.4 million
for 1992 and 1993, respectively.
2.     Through this Program and with the financial and technical assistance from the WB and the IDB,
the Government oriented its efforts to establishing a general frame policy for the sector, defining
appropriate regulations to convert ENEE into an autonomous, self-financed agency, with adequate
operational and administrative systems, as well as to deregulate the supply and distribution of petroleum
byproducts, promote private sector participation, and provide greater support to the balance of payments.
3.     The main objectives of the program were: (i) to establish an energy policy and an adequate
regulatory framework for the sector; (ii) to strengthen ENEE's financial efficiency and operational
planning; (iii) to improve electric power service prices and the distribution of sector resources; (iv) to
promote petroleum exploration and development; (v) to deregulate the petroleum market; and (vi) to
broaden and strengthen private participation in the energy sector.
4.     To achieve these objectives, the basic components of the program were: (i) sector strengthening and
institutional reform; ii) power prices based on adequate economic criteria and financial improvement
objectives; (iii) a Contract Plan to establish clear supervision responsibilities on the Central Government
and financial and operational performance responsibilities on ENEE; (iv) an Operational and
Administrative Restructuring Program to improve ENEE's performance; (v) a financial rehabilitation plan
to remedy ENEE's financial situation; and (vi) a petroleum deregulation Program.
5.     These components included: (a) for the energy sector: goals to significantly improve ENEE
operations, such as a progressive reduction of electricity losses and accounts receivable; (b) for the
petroleum subsector: first, deregulation of imports and second, deregulation of the entire marketing chain;
and (c) technical assistance in: (i) promotion of petroleum exploration activities with adequate
environmental standards; (ii) deregulation of the petroleum industry; and (iii) carrying out fuel substitution
studies in order to reduce the excessive use of wood as fuel.
II.    Evaluation of the Objectives of the Program
1.    The objectives of the Program were relevant to the energy sector and in line with World Bank
sector policies.
2.     At the macroeconomic level, WB and IDB resources for implementation of the Program supported
the Government in alleviating the debt service burden through rapid disbursement of soft financing.
Besides, additional IDA resources were made available to support the balance of payments.



34
III.   Achievement of Program Objectives
1.    Most of the Energy Sector Adjustment Program objectives were achieved: the sector is better
organized with a legal and regulatory framework that provides adequate organization to the sector; ENEE's
financial situation has significantly improved due to substantive changes in management. The deregulation
of the Hydrocarbons Sector has progressed and an adequate regulatory framework has been established.
However, the Program needs to be consolidated, especially with regard to privatization actions and ENEE's
financial stability.
2.     Macroeconomic objectives. The Program contributed considerably to the country's balance of
payments through the transfer of approximately US$116.5 million (including IDA reflows), which was of
significant importance during 1993 and 1994, when traditional exports stagnated as a result of problems in
the global market, exacerbated by domestic weather problems. On the other hand, the Program contributed
to fiscal deficit reductions through smaller Governmental transfers to service ENEE's foreign debt. In
1996, the Government reduced its contribution to ENEE on this item by more than 50% with respect to
1995.
3.     Energy sector goals. The Program achieved most of the objectives proposed. As to ENEE's
operational and financial rehabilitation and the deregulation of the hydrocarbons market, the Government is
still taking actions to achieve, supplement and consolidate the objectives set in the Program.
It is acknowledged that ENEE's financial rehabilitation is dependent on the reduction of its indebtedness
and debt service. ENEE's is preparing procedures to privatize certain areas of the system, which will not
only provide financial resources but will also release it from future investments necessary to improve the
service and increase service coverage.
4.     Energy Strategy and Policy and establishment of a Regulatory Frame. Under the Program, the
Government defined a consistent sector strategy and policy, in accordance with the macroeconomic
policies, as stated in the Policy Frame Document agreed with the World Bank.
During program implementation, the legal and regulatory frame of the sector was established through the
promulgation of the Electric Subsector Frame Law. This law establishes the organization of the energy
sector and the functions of its institutions, the formation of private distribution companies and the
installation of new generation capabilities by the private sector. The law also clarifies the current and
future role of ENEE in the sector and provides guidelines for the transition stage.
The National Electric Power Commission (CNEE) was created as a consequence of the Law, replacing the
old National Energy Commission that drafted and promoted the Frame Law. CNEE is charged with
providing technical advice on energy policy, investment plans, concessions and electricity prices, it defines
the basis for the indicate expansion plans, rate calculations as well as supervision of the global
performance of the sector and that of the agents intervening in it.
The National Supervisory Commission of Public Services (CNSSP), created within the context of the
Energy Sector Adjustment Program, approves the electricity rates proposed by companies and also the rate
adjustment formula, based on fuel cost variations and the official exchange rate. The activities of both
commissions are being redefined and clarified through the proposed amendments to the Law and its
Regulations to avoid duplication of activities between both Commissions.
It is hoped that most problems arising from the reviews and modifications of electric energy rates will be
overcome once the Law and its Regulations are amended. These amendments will also define the
mechanisms for an increased private participation.
5.     Strengthening ENEE's efficiency, planning, and financial feasibility. Although ENEE's full
financial rehabilitation has not been achieved, the latest indicators of the Contract Plan indicate that the
remaining objectives are being achieved.



35
With respect to ENEE's operational and financial rehabilitation, according to the last review of the
Contract Plan made in the third quarter of 1996, the variation between the real indices and the objectives
established indicate that the degree of compliance reached is approximately 60%, as indicated in the
following table:
Table 1
ENEE FINANCIAL INDICATORS
INDEX              Revised                                    Degree of
j Contract Plan   III Quarter   Comparison    Compliance
Average Price              Lps$985.00    Lps$1,001.50    1.67% +       Complied
Profitability              5.10%         -3.6%           -170.6%      Not
complied
Operational cash margin    55%           39.72%         -27.8%        Not
complied
Contribution to Investment   35%         260.32%         643.8%       Complied
Program
Debt Service Coverage      1.00          0.73            -27%         Not
____________  ______________                com plied
Debt equity ratio          2.03 times    2.89            -42.3%       Not
complied
Collection period          70 days       187 days       -177.1%       Not
complied
Current ratio              1.00 times    1.39            0.39%        Complied



36
ENEE EFFICIENCY INDICATORS
INDEX                Reviewed                                     Degree of
Contract       III Quarter    Comparison    Compliance
Plan]                        
Number of employees           2,627         2,677           1.9            Complied
Consumers per employee         188          184            -2.1            Complied
Sales per employee (Gwh)      960           776            -19.2%          Not complied
Electric Losses                19%          24.95%         -32.2%          Not complied
Duration Equivalent           9 hours       3.87            -0.57%         Complied
Interruptions
Frequency Equivalent           8.50%        4.30%           -49.4%         Complied
Interruptions
Hydroelectric Generation      97%           90.95%          -6.17%         Complied
Availability                                           ___
Thermal Generation            75%           62.11%          17.18%         Complied
Availability
Average Expected              2.212         2.371           7.18%          Complied
Consumption                                                                              l
Source: Prepared on the basis of the ENEE Contract Plan Report, III Quarter 1996.
According to the above table, efficiency indicators show an acceptable compliance level (78%), whereas
financial indicators show a modest level of compliance (38%) as a result of external debt payments ENEE
must made annually, thus preventing ENEE from showing a better financial performance.
Among other additional indicators that should be highlighted are those related to electricity sales whose
1995 goal was 2.365 million kWh and actual sales reached 1.986 million kWh, representing 84%
compliance. The period to recover accounts receivable reached 90 days at the end of 1995 vis-a-vis the
agreed goal of 80 days.
It should be noted that the restructuring of ENEE is continuing on the basis of the Frame Law. ENEE is
currently moving toward maintaining control of only existing generation and transmission facilities. New
expansion plans take into account ENEE's new role in the electric power subsector and the expected
increased participation of the private sector in generation and distribution activities. A clear accounts
receivable compensation mechanism is operating between the company and the Central Government.
6.    Improvement of electricity prices and resource distribution in the sector. The rate regime has been
reviewed in accordance with the law and is being applied on the basis of real costs, thus contributing to the
increase in ENEE's income. The current rate design is based on economic principles and subsidies have
been limited to low-income consumers (up to 300 kWh/month).



37
On the other hand, on the basis of the Electric Power Subsector Frame Law, a new Rate Protocol was
approved, for a period of five years, in January 1996. There is also an automatic adjustment formula
allowing to amend rates based on changes in fuel prices or in the official exchange rate. Currently,
procedures are being analyzed to review bar rates, whose modifications are expected to become effective by
mid-January 1997.
7.    Promotion of petroleum exploration and production. During program administration and with
foreign technical assistance, a review of available information and of existing laws on petroleum
exploration was carried out. Recommendations were also made to improve the data bank and to modify
existing laws to make petroleum production and exploration more attractive to intemational companies.
However, no progress has been made on investment promotion in those areas.
8.    Deregulation of the hydrocarbon byproducts market. Within the economic stabilization program
initiated by the Govemment in 1990, a two-phase implementation program to deregulate the hydrocarbon
byproducts market was included. The elimination of import controls was completed under the first phase.
The second phase, under implementation, includes full deregulation of all products at the marketing level.
This phase is being implemented gradually, and presently only five products remain under control (regular
and premium gasoline, diesel, kerosene and LPG).
Negotiations are underway with petroleum import companies to define the reference petroleum import price
and the value of the new rate. There is certain consensus between the parties that the reference price should
be the Gulf price plus its respective rate.
T'he implementation of the deregulation program has strengthened the Petroleum Administration
Commission's (CAP) ability to monitor the price of hydrocarbons, prepare standard specifications for
petroleum byproducts, deregulate import controls, introduce unleaded gasoline and create a general framne
to develop petroleum and petroleum byproducts marketing activities. It has also promoted domestic and
foreign private investment through the drafting of the Petroleum and Petroleum Byproducts Marketing
Law, which was submitted to the National Congress for approval.
Currently, the Government's role has been reoriented towards regulating subsector activities, while the
responsibility for import, storage and distribution of petroleum products is the realm of private sector
companies.
On the other hand, petroleum prices are at international levels, distortions and subsidies have been
eliminated, and there is full fiscal transparency in the subsector. It is expected that during the first quarter
of this year, a new formula on price parity in petroleum imports will be implemented.
9.     Strengthening of private sector participation. The implementation of the program has allowed
broadening and strengthening private sector participation in the energy sector. On the one hand, the
Electric Subsector Frame Law set the basis for private sector intervention through: (i) the creation of
appropriate conditions for the establishment of regional distribution companies and (ii) the participation of
the private sector in energy generation as independent producers. It should be noted that the Government's
commitment to promote private sector participation even includes electric power transmission activities.
Significant progress has been made on this front. ENEE has two ongoing contracts with independent
generators: one for 80 MW with the ELCOSA company, which initiated operations in 1994 and another for
40 MW with LUFUSA, which was initiated at the end of 1995, both for thermal generation. Besides,
thermal plants in La Ceiba (26 MW) and Puerto Cortes (60 MW) were repaired under a Rehabilitation-
Operation-Maintenance (ROM) agreement with the private sector. In the distribution area, the study
carried out by IBERDROLA has allowed ENEE to propose to CNEE the geographic areas for distribution.
Taking into account the study's analysis and ENEE's proposal, CNEE will divide the country into electric
power distribution areas on the basis of criteria making each technically feasible and economically
profitable.



38
10.    Studies and action plan for fuel substitution. During program implementation, the Government
carried out, with foreign technical assistance, a study to substitute fuels. An action plan was developed,
including the execution of several studies, which have already been completed. The actions executed by
ENEE and SECPLAN include those related to: (i) use of kerosene for lighting and cooking; (ii) use of
biomass for generation; (iii) production of wind and solar energy; (iv) promotion of operation of
hydroelectric mini-plants and (v) energy conservation programs.
IV.   Main Factors Affecting Program Execution
I.    It is important to note that the broad program concept intended to include several areas, which
caused the establishment of several cross conditionalities. These complicated compliance and extended
program implementation through two governmental Administrations (1990 to 1996). The credit became
effective in December 1991 and the first disbursement was made in April 1992. Program execution was
weakened in 1993 because of presidential elections. Therefore, the conditions required for disbursement of
the second tranche were not complied with during the previous administration, making necessary an
extension of the closing date. The closing date was extended three times, the last being March 31, 1996.
The latter was necessary to give the new Administration the opportunity to advance progressively in
complying with the conditions for the release of the second and third tranches.
2.     Natural disasters in 1994 aggravated implementation problems. ENEE's operational and financial
difficulties increased with the 1990-1994 drought, which reached catastrophic conditions in 1994. In that
year, hydroelectric plants reached their lowest levels and various thermal plants had to be put out of service
due to the lack of adequate maintenance. ENEE's generation capacity was not sufficient to cover demand,
causing a severe energy crisis that affected the productive sector and the general population.
This caused severe financial losses to ENEE and to the country's economy, reflected in a 1.4% decrease in
GDP in 1994. Thanks to ENEE's own efforts, the support received from the Government and from some
international organizations, thermal plants were repaired, gas turbines lent by Mexico were installed and
the energy crisis was overcome in December 1994.
3.     Another factor affecting the achievement of financial objectives has been ENEE's debt service,
which plays a significant role in its financial rehabilitation.
V.    Bank's Performance
1.    The Bank identified the Program in 1987 and worked closely with the Government in its
preparation during 1988 and 1990. Several technical missions visited Honduras during that period,
identifying sector priorities and Governmental reform demands. The Bank and the Government obtained
valuable information on electricity demand, ENEE's debt situation, its financial projections, as well as
identification of institutional development needs in the electric energy and hydrocarbons subsectors.
Based on this work, the Bank and the Government reviewed and discussed a draft sector policy letter, plans
for ENEE's operational and financial improvement, proposals to deregulate the hydrocarbons market and
terms of reference to contract the required technical assistance and the studies foreseen in the reform
program. All this allowed the Government and the Bank to design the indicated program.
2.     Evaluation and Negotiations. The program was evaluated in 1991 during the Callejas
Administration without reaching initial specific agreements with the Government. Negotiations were held
in late 1991 and agreement was reached on the scope of the program.
3.     Program supervision. The Bank continuously supervised the program through different missions.
Its performance in this regard is considered to be satisfactory.



39
VI.   Borrower's Performance
I .    Performance evaluation should consider the performance of the three Administrations involved in
the Program from beginning to end. The Azcona Administration intervened in the identification and initial
preparation of the program. The Callejas Administration completed program preparation and initiated its
implementation. The Reina Administration completed program implementation.
2.    Program Preparation. The Government participated actively in program preparation.
Notwithstanding the instability caused by the change of Administration, all sector institutions involved in
the program participated actively in its preparation.
3.     Program Implementation. Program implementation progressed rapidly during 1991 and 1992, but
decreased significantly after the first disbursement. In January 1994, the Reina Administration assumed
the execution of the program which led to the second disbursement in March of the same year. However,
ENEE's financial rehabilitation was limited due to natural disasters and the ensuing energy crisis. In 1994,
the Government adopted the price parity formula on hydrocarbons imports. During 1995 and the beginning
of 1996, the Government made significant efforts to comply with the commitments of the third tranche.
4.     Compliance with Conditionalities. The Program had an uneven execution. Certain conditions were
complied with on a timely manner, others with much delay, and those related to ENEE's operational and
financial rehabilitation and with the deregulation of hydrocarbons have not been complied with totally as
agreed in the credit agreement. These conditions led to the request for extensions of the closing date until
the beginning of this year.
The interest demonstrated by the Government in its support of ENEE and in complying with Sector
Adjustment Program objectives, especially with the promulgation of Executive Decree N° 044-95 that,
among other things, allowed the approval of electric rates in 1996, should be noted.
Therefore, the Government's performance is deemed to be satisfactory.
VII.  Project Sustainability
I .    Since its beginning, the Program has not suffered interruptions; the implementation of actions
provided for in the credit agreement continue underway. The actions taken by the Government support the
sustainability of the reform program.
2.    In general, the implementation of the economic stabilization program has allowed the elimination of
most subsidies and in other cases to reduce subsidies substantially, decrease current expenses, increase
selected taxes and public utilities' rates, and also to widen the tax base. Structural reforms adopted by the
Government include: a commercial reform that has decreased import taxes and their dispersion and
eliminated several non-tariff barriers; the deregulation of financial markets eliminated control of interest
rates and decreased direct assignment of credit; the deregulation of agricultural markets eliminated controls
of guaranteed prices and substantially reduced Government intervention; specific measures were taken to
benefit the poor through social compensation programs and measures.
3.    Additionally, legislative measures issued during 1995 have strengthened the macroeconomic basis
of the stabilization and structural adjustment. Among the new laws are the following: the Frame Law of
the Telecommunications Subsector, which opened the sector to competition and to private sector
investment. The Financial System Institutions Law and the Banking and Insurance Commission Law,
which have improved the regulatory and supervision frame of the sector. On the other hand, the Executive
Branch has submitted to the National Congress laws to reform civil aviation, tax administration, and public
administration. The Central Bank increased the flexibility in currency auctions.
4.     The achievements of the Energy Sector Adjustment Program are satisfactory in spite of the
prolonged implementation period. By mid-1996 the following sector commitments had been achieved: (i)
issuance of the Electric Subsector Frame Law; privatization of electric energy distribution services is



40
underway; electricity rates are calculated on the basis of economic principles and subsidies are granted only
to low-income consumers; the private sector is participating in electric energy generation; the hydrocarbons
deregulation program has allowed leveling domestic and international market prices and has eliminated
most subsidies.
5.     The Government maintains its commitment to carry out the necessary actions to complete the
restructuring of the sector through the reorientation of ENEE's role, the creation of private distribution
companies, and the incorporation of independent private generators. Even though certain ENEE financial
and operational restructuring objectives have not been implemented, actions have been taken to continue
with energy sector reforms and improve its performance.
VIII. Future Operations
1.    Because all the objectives to improve ENEE's financial and operational performance and to reduce
electricity losses have not been achieved, the Company is progressing in the privatization of distribution
activities.
2.    It is considered pertinent to define and agree with the World Bank on a set of sector performance
monitoring indicators. The monitoring of privatization of the distribution activities may be carried out by
CNEE, while monitoring of the hydrocarbons subsector may be done by CAP.
3.     The Government deems it necessary to carry out new operations to continue the consolidation of
the achievement of the sector reform. Technical and financial assistance from the World Bank is expected
to pursue these objectives. These new assistance programs should contribute to eliminate small
inconsistencies in the frame law, especially with respect to the regulatory framework and private sector
participation in the sector.
IX.   Main Lessons Learned
1.    The complex nature of the program and the dire need for an intensive and comprehensive
participation of financial organizations, as well as an effective and specific programmed and coordinated
action from the Government and all sector public institutions, is recognized.
2.     Conditions need to be defined so that they are flexible enough to allow for political and social
conditions to be taken into consideration in the requirement for additional time to comply, independently of
loan contributions and disbursements to strengthen national macroeconomic indicators.
3.     The Contract Plan is a mechanism to identify and clarify commitments and responsibilities of the
contracting parties at the Governmental level and their monitoring and compliance allow achievement of the
objectives of the reform.
4.    Implementation of this type of program requires a strong and continuous conmmitment from the
Government for its compliance.






i






IMAGING
Reporl No.:           16727
Type:      ICR



