Dmecut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-5592-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 37.95 MILLION
(US$50.6 MILL-ION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SEPTEMBER 19, 1991
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thedr oMfcial  ties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALNITS
(as of September 13, 1991)
Currency Unit      Lempira
US$1.0    a   L  5.30
L 1.0    =   US50.19
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Electricity
kVA - Kilovolt ampere
kW   - Kilowatt
kWh = Kilowatt hour
GWb (Gigawatt hour) - 1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt) = 1,000 Volts
MW (Megawatt) - 1,000 kW
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAP         Petroleum Administrative Comiission (Comisi6n
Administrativa de Pdtroleo)
CG          Consultative Group
COBDEFOR    Forestry Development Corporation (Corporaci6n Hondureina de Desarollo Forestal)
CONAMA       National Commission of the Environment and Development (Comisi6n Nacional del
Medio Ambiente y Desarrollo)
CP           Contract Plan
CSIR         Country Strategy and Implementation Review
DGMH         General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons (Direccidn General de Minas e
Hidrocarburos)
KNEE         National Power Company (Empresa Nacional de Energfa Eldctrica)
ENP          National Port Company (Empresa Nacional Portuaria)
ESAP         Energy Sector Adjustment Program
ESMAP        Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FHIS         Honduran Social Investment Fund
FRP          Financial Rehabilitation Program
GOH          Government of Honduras
GTE          Technical Energy Group (Crupo Tdcnico de Energfa)
HONDUTEL    National Telecommunications Company (Empresa Hondurenia de Telecomunicaciones)
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW          Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau
MIS          Management Information System
MNR          Ministry of Nattonal Resource s (Secretaria de Recursos Naturales)
MOE          Ministry of Education
MOH          Ministry of Health
MORP         Management and Operational Restructuring Program
NEC          National Energy Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Energia)
OAS          Organization of American States
PLP          Petroleum Liberalization Plan
PPAR         Project Performance Audit Report
PURC         Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (Comisi6n Nacional Supervisora de
Servicios PLblicos)
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
SANAA        National Water Company (Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados)
SECAC        Sector Adjustment Credit
SECPLAN      Ministry of Planning (Secretaria de Planificaci6n)
STENEE       Worker's Union of ENEE (Sindicato de Trabajadores de ENEE)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Paae No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY  ......................................    i-ii
PART I - COUNTRY  POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  ....    1
A. Legacy of the Past ......................................  1
B. Government's Adjustment Program  ...........                   .................    2
C. Agenda for Reform ......................,                                              3
D. Macroeconomic Stabilization and Adjustment Performance ......    5
E. Recent Economic Developments  ...............................    7
F. Medium Term Projections and Financing Requirements  ...                       ......    8
G.  Country Assistance Strategy  ................................   10
H. Relations with the  IMF  .....................................   15
I. Summary Assessment  .........................................   15
PART 1I  - THE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  .........................  16
A.  Sector Background  ........               ..................................   16
S. Government Program  .......                ..................................   17
Energy Sector                ............................................   17
Policy and Strategy                    ....................................   17
Institutional Framework  ......                ..........................   17
Interfuel  Substitution  ............................... .                     18
Electric Power Subsector  .................................   18
Corporate Autonomy                ............................8.........   I
Management and Operational  Performance  .............                  ....  20
Investment  .............................................   22
Sector Finances  ........................................   23
Electricity Pricing  ......               ..............................   25
Petroleum Subsector  .......               ...............................   27
Exploration                ............................................   27
Supply Management  .......               ...............................   27
Private Sector Participation  .....                  ........................  28
Environment               ..............................................   29
PART III - THE PROPOSED OPERATION  .....                 ..........................  30
A. Background  ............... . . 0.....  30
Bank Group Involvement  in the Energy Sector  ...........                   ...   30
Rationale for the Proposed Operation    . . ........ ...  31
B. Project Cost and Financing  ...                  ...........................   32
Adjustment Component .....                            ... ................ 32
Technical Assistance  ... ................ . ................                 .   32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ir tt. 3 performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dlla-.k authorization.



- is -
C. Credit Conditions              ..........................................  33
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation      . .    33
Effectiveness and Tranche Release Conditions ........... .. 34
(i)  Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche ... 34
(ii)  Conditions for Release of the Third Tranche ...... 34
(iii) Events of Default ............. .. ................. 35
D. Procurement, Disbursement and Audit Reporting .......... ....  35
Procurement  .....................................................    35
Disbursements .................  I .........................  36
Audit Reporting .     * .................................. 36
E. Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impact ........ ........... 36
Benefits       .................................................  36
Risks ...     ................................................. 37
Environmental Impact . ........    . ....................  38
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION ........................................ 38
ANNEXES
I    Country Economic Data                . . .   39
II     Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
and IFC Investments        ...46
III    Letter of Sector Development Policy    ...48
IV  Policy Matrix              ...56
V      Electric Power Subsector - Evolution,
Situation and Prospects .61
VI     Contract-Plan: General Outline ..            ...70
VII    ENEE's Financial Rehabilitation Plan .... ............ 76
VIII   Petroleum Liberalization Program ...                  81
IX     Supplementary Credit Data Sheet .84
Map IBRD 22912 - Honduras Electric System



HONDURAS
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENJT PROGRAM JESAP 
Credit and Program Summary
ftEr,owerz     Republic of Honduras
IWEMSENnting
A=cenav        Governmenrt of Honduras (GOH)
Amount:        SDR 37.95 million (US$50.6 million equivalent).
Termss         40 years, including 10 years of grace, with a charge of 0.75%
p. .
Descrigtion:   The proposed operation would support the GOH's comprehensive
program of reforms in the energy sector, within the framework
of its ongoing structural adjustment program. It would be
cofinanced by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) through
a US$105 million hybrid loan (US$55 million adjustment, US$50
million investment). The main objectives of the reform program
are to: (1) establish a comprehensive energy policy and
strategy and a sound regulatory framework; (2) strengthen the
efficiency, planning and financial soundness of the national
power company (ENEE); (3) improve electricity pricing and
resource allocation in the sector; (4) promote petroleum
exploration and production; (5) liberalize petroleum product
trade; and (6) encourage greater private sector participation
in the development of the energy sector. To achieve these
objectives, the program includes the following main elements:
(1) sector institutional reform and strengthening; (2)
electricity pricing to be based on sound economic criteria and
financial improvement targets; (3) clearer policy-making and
supervisory responsibilities on the part of the GOH and
performance accountability on the part of ENEE through a
contract-plan;  (4) a Management and Operational Restructuring
Program (MORP) to improve ENEE's performance and a Financial
Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) to restore ENEE's financial
soundness; (5) detailed Dlans of action, which include; Lfo
Power, targets calling for significant improvements in ENEE's
operations, such as progressive reduction of electricity losses
and of accounts receivable, and steps to set rates at levels
consistent with long-run marginal costs; and tor ,etroleum,
liberalization of imports in a first phase followed by a second
phase for liberalizing retail sales; and (6) technical
assistance for (i) petroleum exploration promotion and related
environmental protection regulations, (ii) deregulating the
petroleum industry, and (iii) carrving out an interfuel
substitution study to address inter alia concerns about
deforestation through excessive use of fuelwood.



ii
jd 4lLkJs.    The Energy Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP) would alleviate the
heavy financial burden of the electric power subsector on the
Government budget by making ENEE a financially viable entity
capable of servicing its large debt. It would also address the
constraints posed by the country's sizeable oil import bill
(about US$143 million or 13% of total export earnings for 1990)
by promoting the development of Honduras' oil and gas potential
by the private sector. A sound pricing policy for both
electricity and petroleum products would be central to the
reform program, and would promote energy conservation, and
reduce investments required in the future. Environmental
concerns would be addressed through the enforcement of strict
rules for both investment and operations and by providing
technical assistance for the preparation of environmantal
protection regulations with respect to petroleum exploration.
The main risks facing the ESAP are the possible lack of
political support to continue with institutional changes and
pricing actions, in the face of labor union opposition, public
discontent with continued austerity policies and the upcoming
election cycle. Other risks are linked to the success of the
economic adjustment/stabilization program of which the proposed
operation is an important part. These risks are tempered by
the Government's commitment to the energy and macroeconomic
adjustment programs, as evidenced by the significant reforms
already introduced.
Estimated
Digbursements: The proceeds of the proposed operation would be disbursed in
three tranches; the first tranche of SDR 15 million (US$20.0
million equivalent) at effectiveness (estimated for
December 1991); the second tranche of SDR 11.25
(US$15.0 million equivalent), when the intermediate steps of
the program have been satisfactorily implemented (estimated for
August 1992); and the third tranche of SDR 11.25
(US$15.0 million equivalent), when all the reforms under the
program have been completed (estimated for March 1993).
US$0.6 million equivalent would be disbursed for consultant
services engaged for technical assistance, during a 24 month
period. Retroactive financing for up to 20% of the credit
amount (US$10 million equivalent) is be_.ng proposed for
eligible expenditures incurred after May 15, 1991.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT A8SOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESXDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
pQP-OED ENERRY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE REPUB     : OF HONDURAS
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a nroposed
credit in the amount of SDR 37.95 mil4ion (US$50.6 million equivalent) to the
Republic of Honduras in support of the implementation of an Energy Sector
Adjustment Program (ESAP). This program is described in a Letter of Energy
Sector Development Policy received from the Government (Annex III). The
credit would be on s%andard IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40
years, including a grace period of 10 years. The Interamerican Development
Bank (IDB) is cofinancing the program through a US$105 million sector
adjustment and investment hybrid operation (US$55 million adjustment, US$50
million investment), of which US$46 million would be on concessional terms and
would be allocated to the adjustment component of the operation.
PART I - CONY POLICIES AND BAN  ROUP ASSISTA-NC 8. .S M'K
A. LEGACY OF THE PAST
2.          Honduras ranks among the least developed countries in the Western
Hemisphere. Although some economic progress has been made over the last two
decades, per capita GNP in 1990 remains low at an estimated US$538.
Furthermore, 40 percent of the population over 10 years of age is illiterate,
72 percent of children under 5 years suffer from malnutrition, the infant
mortality rate is nearly 79 per 1,000 live births, and 60 percent of the
population is inadequately housed. About 75 percent of the population lives
in poverty conditions.
3.          Until recently, Honduras' development strategy was based on
import-substitution, industrialization behind high protective barriers, and
extensive government intervention involving credit subsidies, price controls
and tax incentives. This created strong price distortions and kept
productivity low.   In the 1970s, GDP growth averaged an annual rate of 4.5
percent, bolstered by high expenditures (both public and private) financed by
the country's increasing access to external resources. Exports, which in a
small economy like Honduras should be a driving force for growth, grew at an
average annual rate of only 3.7%. Foreign exchange earnings were based (and
continue to be) primarily on coffee and bananas. Despite a strongly
protective trade regime, imports grew rapidly throughout the 1970s, reaching
more than 40% of GDP by the early 1980s. The combination of strong domestic
demand and sluggish exports resulted in the emergence of balance of payments
problems by the early 1980s.
4.          Access to abundant bilateral and multilateral credit allowed the
Government to stave off a major balance of payments crisis in the early 1980e
and to avoid for several years the painful adjustment needed to address the
economy's structural problems. In 1987, however, both coffee prices and
positive net capital inflows collapsed, unmasking the structural distortions
constraining Honduras' growth. Partly as a result of its fears that hard



economic policy decisions might destabilize the domestic social and political
situa:ion, the Government did not address the abrupt drop in foreign exchange
inflows in 1987 through a comprehensive program of economic reforms, but
carried out instead a series of ad hoc measurea which averted only temporarily
a massive financial disequilibrium. The Government's recourse to the
accumulation of arrears and financing of the public sector deficit from
domestic sources intensified pressures on the balance of payments and sowed
the seeds of an accelerated inflationary process. By February 1988, Honduras
was in arrears with all of its creditors, inflation was beginning to
accelerate, and the difference between the official and the parallel market
exchange rates had widened to 40 percent.
5.          Honduras' economic performance in 1988 and 1989 reflected the
fundamental structural weaknesses of the economy that made long-term growth
unsustainable unless a major economic reform program was implemented. Real
GDP growth fell from 4.7 percent in 1988, to 2.3 percent in 1989. Gross
domestic investment declined to less than 13 percent of GDP, and national
savings dropped to 3.9 percent of GDP. In 1989, the overall public sector
deficit remained high at 9.2 percent of GDP despite a sharp decline in public
investment, and public sector savings were negative (-1.9 percent of GDP).
The current account deficit of the balance of payments reached 7.0 percent of
GDP, and an overvalued exchange rate continued to undermine the competitive-
ness of Honduras' exports. Net external financing, including grants, was not
sufficient to cover the fiscal deficit, and the Government resorted to domes-
tic bank financing (equivalent to 4.3 percent of GDP) and to an accumulation
of external arrears (amounting to 3.7 percent of GDP) to finance the gap. The
rate of domestic inflation, as measured by the Wholesale Price Index, reached
about 20 percent in 1989.
6.          As alluded to above, reliance on external financing was an
important element -f macroeconomic management during the 1980.. In fact,
Honduras' total external debt more than doubled between 1980 and 1989, from
US$1.5 billion to about US$3.2 billion. The rate of accumulation of debt far
exceeded the growth rates of domestic output and exports during this period,
with the result that the debt burden increased sharply. The ratio of total
external debt to GDP increased from 58 percent in 1980 to about 65 percent in
1989 (at the official exchange rate); if the average parallel market rate were
used, the external debt to GDP ratio exceeded 100 percent. With debt service
to exports increasing from 21 percent in 1980 to 30 percent in 1988 and
rising, the Government began to accumul&te arrears on its external debt.
After an extended period of non-payment, Honduras' Bank portfolio was declared
in non-accrual status on April 1, 1989; the IMF declared the country ineligi-
ble on November 30, 1989; and the IDB placed the country in non-accrual status
in December 1989. By the end of 1989, Honduras had accumulated arrears of
about US$744 million on its external debt, and the parallel market exchange
rate reached above L4/US$l (compared to the official rate of L2/US$1).
B. GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
7.          In January 1990, a new administration headed by President Callejas
took office, and embarked on a bold program of economic reform, based on a
fundamental redefinition of the role of the state. The essential aim of the



adjustment program was to reduce tte complex regulatory framework and costly
subsidies which pervaded the economy, and to encourage private sector
investments through reform of the trade regime, public sector management
reforms, pricing and marketing deregulation, financial sector reforms, and
establishment of a long-term macroeconomic framework free of distortions.
Reducing the size of the public enterprise sector through privatization and/or
leasing arrangements, increasing the efficiency of strategic enterprises which
remain publicly-owned, and limiting the fiscal burden of these companies on
the Central Government budget, were also key elements of the Government's
reform program.
8.          The major policy changes introduced in March 1990 included: (i)
trade reform, reducing the maximum import tariff rate from 90 percent to 40
percent and eliminating most exemptions and eurcharges; (ii) an adjustment of
the exchange rate that brought the official rate to L4/US$l (with the
exception of debt/equity convere .ons which remained at the previous official
L2/US$l rate); (iii) a revenue package, which by introducing changes in the
rates of the sales and other taxes, eliminating exemptions in the trade
regime, and imposing temporary ta:zes on exports, aimed to increase Central
Government revenue from 16 percent of GDP in 1989 to 21 percent of GDP in
1990; and (iv) " Government budget for 1990 which was to limit current
expenditures to about 21 percent of GDP, increasing consolidated public sector
savings to about 0.5 percent of GDP from a deficit of 2 percent in 1989.
Despite the effect of the devaluation on public debt service (an increase of
about 2 percent of GDP), the overall 1990 public sector deficit was budgeted
to be reduced to 6.9 percent of GDP, permitting its financing with only slight
recourse to domestic credit (0.5 percent of GDP).
9.          In order to cushion the social effects of the adjustment program,
the Government created the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS), structured
to operate flexibly and efficiently. The FHIS combines an emergency
employment strategy with the objective of poverty alleviaticn through the
financing of social infrastr:'cture, such as rehabilitation of health posts,
schools, water and sewerage systems, targeted projects in health, nutrition,
and education, and a limited number of productive projects. An IDA Credit of
SDR 14.3 million was approved in February 1991 to support these social safety
net activities. The Government is also developing a program, with the support
of the Bank Group and the IDB, to address the longer-term issues of increasing
the efficiency and equity of education and health services, which may lead to
possible social sector lending operations (para. 13).
C. AGENDA FOR REFORM
10.         Achievement of sustainable growth requires a stable economic
environment that will increase private sector confidence, promote domestic
savings, and encourage investment in export-oriented and efficient import-
substitution activities. Consolidation of stabilization, through continued
sound monetary, exchange rate and fiscal policies will be fundamental. The
policy agenda for subsequent phases of the economic restructuring program will
need to include: (i) further reform of public enterprises; (ii)
rationalization of the incentive framework; (iii) measures to reduce poverty
through social sector reform; and (iv) sustainable management of the country's



natural resources and environment. The proposed Energy Sector Adjustment
Program (ESAP) is designed to support some of these policy actions under this
subsequent phase of economic reform.
11.         public Enterorise Reform.  Public enterprises have contributed
significantly to Honduras' fiscal deficit and 'ieavy external debt burden. The
public enterprise sector grew rapidly during the 19609 and l9?0s, reflecting
the Government's desire to spearhead economic development, create employment
and promote the growth of underdeveloped areas. However, the performance of
these enterprises has generally been poor, and their contribution to the
national economy has not been commensurate with the amount of resources
channelled to them. Some public enterprises have developed an excessive and
unsustainable dependence on public financing. At the same time, a rapid
build-up of Government arrears to some public utilities threatens their
financial viability. Reform of the public enterprise system will require: (i)
institutional and regulatory changes in the framework governing the
functioning of the enterprises and their relationship with the Central
Government and Congress; (ii) modifications in price adjustment and collection
mechanisms; and (iii) strengthening of the internal organization and
management of the enterprises themselves. The proposed credit will support,
iterala, a financial restructuring of the National Power Company, ENEE, and
the implementation of a comprehensive energy sector policy and strategy that
will require the application of tariff and investment principles based on
economic and financial criteria.
12.         Incentive Framework.  Continued financial sector and fiscal
reform, further price and trade liberalization, and a reduction in Government
regulation of economic activities are essential for fostering irivate sector-
led growth. Considerable progress has already been made on financial, fiscal,
and agricultural trade/pricing issues. The remaining frontier where
substantial efforts are still required is in the area of deregulation and
reform of the investment code, particularly as it applies to foreign
investors. A recent analysis of the legal framework and investment climate by
the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) identified the following as
critical impediments to foreign investment in Honduras: (i) the unstable
nature of the legal framework and excessive number of regulations; (ii)
regulations limiting reliable access to foreign exchanget (iii) a complex tax
regime, often resulting in high taxation rates; (iv) lack of security of land
titles and prohibitions against land rentall and (v) the absence of medium and
long term finance for capital investments. Improving the inves--tent
environment will require actions to revise the legal framework, introduce
policy reforms, reduce government intervention, and develop the financial
markets. Some of the tax issues and constraints related to land ownership are
being addressed in the context of SAL II and may be subject of a possible
Agriculture Sector Adjustment operation (para. 38).
13.         Povgrty.  Poverty is widespread in Honduras, and is reflected in
low per capita income and in low health, nutrition and education standards.
Poverty among households headed by women is a particular problem. Basic
infrastructure for health and education is inadequate and social services
delivery is inequitable. The primary health care system currently reaches
only 60% of its targeted population. Health posts lack basic equipment and
supplies, and suffer from an insufficient number of paramedical personnel. In
the education sector, there is a shortage of classrooms, textbooks, and



teaching materials devoted to primary education, and teacher/student ratios
are disturbingly low In rural areas. The major issues requiring attention in
the social sectors includet (i) inadequate emphasis on primary education; (iit
a focus on curative rather than preventive health care} (iii) inadequate
incentives for teachers and health workers, resulting in low quality delivery
of social services; (iv) excessive centralization of budget, staff and
services; (v) insufficient cost recovery; and (vi) weak inatitutional capacity
of social mtenistries and line agencies. Recognizing the need to address the
long-term issues of health and education efficiently and equitably, the
Government has requested the Bank Group's support to improve service delivery
of the Ministries of Health (MOH) and Education (MOE), and other social
service agencies, as a complement to the IDA Credit alrealy approved for the
FHIS. The Bank Group prepared a Social Sector Review in FY91 which analyzed
the issues involved in a restructuring program for the social sectors, and has
started discussing with Government officialo possible strategies for improving
sector performance.
14.         Natural-Resource Manaaemeat.and the 3nXironM2nt.  Honduras' main
environmental problems are deforestation, waste of wood resources and land
erosion. Deforestation has proceeded at an alarming rate. Forests covered
6.8 million ha. in 1964, but the area declined to 5 million ha. in 1988.
Because of good world market prospects for wood, slist%inable management of
this forest land is of special value for the country'oj long-term economic
prospects. Lai.d misuse is also a costly problem. According to 1986 data, the
area suited for cropping was about 1.9 million ha., of which 1 million ha.
were appropriate for annual crops and .9 million ha. were suitable for
perennial crops or artificial pasture. However, in practice, crops and
pastures occupied 2.8 million ha., of which 1.5 million ha. were for crops
cultivated on lands suitable only for forest. Soil erosion is increasing. if
present trends continue, land erosion may affect food supplies, increase the
possibility of flooding and reduce the electricity generation potential of
hydroelectric plants (para. 58). Deforestation and land misuse have been
encouraged by economic policy and legislation which do not guarantee private
property rights over the country's timber and land resources. The
Government's agricultural strategy, supported by a possible Agriculture Sector
Adjustment operation (para. 38), would address these i'9ues, including
necessary legal revisions to the regulatory and policy framework.
D.  HACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION AND ADJUSTMENT PRFORMANCE
15.         In support of the new administration's economic reform program
(including the social safety net), the Bank-chaired Consultative Group for
Honduras arranged a bridge financing package with the support of the U.S.,
Japan, Venezuela and Mexico, and by mid-1990 Honduras cleared all outstanding
arrears with its multilateral creditors. This paved the way for an IMP stand-
by arrangement approved in late July 1990 (para. 46) and for Bank Group and
IDB financial support of the Government's adjustment program. Subsequently,
Ronduras reached agreement with its bilateral creditors at a September 14,
1990 meeting of the Paris Club, receiving the most favorable terms adopted by
the Club for highly-indebted, lower-middle income countries.



16.         Working closely with the IMF and the IDS, the Bank Group is
supporting the Government's program with a Second Structural Adiustment Loan
(SAL II) of US$90 million and IDA with a Structural Adiustment Credit (SAC) of
8DR 14.3 million, which were approved by the Board of Directors on September
13, 1990 and January 29, 1991, respectively. SAL II became effective in
November 1990, and the first tranche of US$45.0 million was disbursed
immediately. The SAC became effective in April 1991; its single tranche was
disbursed immediately upon effectiveness. Major actions supported by the SAL
1I and SAC include:
(i) Vxnort and Trade - flexible management of the exchange rate;
rationalization of tariff structure with reduction in the range of
tariffs from 90-1 to 20-5 percent by 1992; elimination of all tariff
exemptions and surcharges; elimination of all import licenses; and
introduction of a new export incentive system;
(ii) Public Sector Manaaement - limits on public sector investment;
targets for public sector savings, including specific targets for
increasing savings from the publicly-owned telephone and water
companies; automatic adjustment of petroleum prices; reforms in tax
administration; and a tax reform;
(iii) Aoriculture Sector - elimination of all guaranteed prices and
price contrc!.a (with the exception of corn, for which a flexible tariff
system will replace the price guarantee system); rationalization program
for the Government purchauing and marketing agencies; and targets for
food and employment assistance; and
(iv) rinancial Sector - flexible interest rate policy; administrative
unification of all rediscount and credit lines; limits on subsidized
credit; improvement of the portfolio classification system for the
commercial banking system, as well as a minimum capital to assets ratio
for all banks; and reorganization of the agricultural financial system.
17.         As of September 1991, substantial progress has been achieved in
implementing the SAL II program. With respect to trade, import tariffs have
been reduced from a range of 0-90% before SAL II effectiveness to 4-35% in
January, 1991; import licenses have been replaced by an automatic statistical
registration procedure; and temporary export taxes have been eliminated for
non-traditional exports and are being phased out for traditional exports.
Regarding gublic sector manacement, tariffs of the major public sector
enterprises have been incredred and the savings target for the phone and water
companies (0.3% of GDP) has been significantly exceeded (1.4% of GDP); and an
automatic adjustment mechanism for domestic petroleum prices has been adopted
to respond to changes in the exchange rate and/or international oil prices. A
program to strengthen the Ministry of Finance's capacity to collect domestic
taxes is also being successfully implemented. In the aariculture sector,
substantial decontrol of agricultural prices has taken place, and many
restrictions to agricultural imports have been eliminated. Initial steps to
remove the public sector monopoly over grain imports have been taken, with
further actions in process. Financial sector reforms have inciuded abolishing
ceilings on lending rates for most lending operations (with the exception of
loans for basic grains and low-income housing). The Honduran authorities are



- 7 -
in the process of completing remaining actions for second tranche release
under SAL II, and disbursement is expected to take place in late 1991.
E. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
18.         Real GDP declined by about 1% in 1990, partly as a result of
stabilization measures and partly due to exogenous factors: a banana workers'
strike, flooding in agricultural production areas, and the increase in oil
prices arising from the Gulf crisis. There are, however, indications that the
economy has begun to recover during the first semester of 1991 from last
year's recession. The Central Bank estimates that during January-July 1991,
the monthly index of economic activity increased by 2.8% over the same period
one year earlier. During January-July 1990, that index had declined by about
2% compared to January-July 1989 levels reflecting the initial impact of the
stabilizatio: policies.
19.         Tax revenues did not increase substantially during 1990, as a
result of delays in implementing needed tax administration reforms and a
reduction in imports in the last quarter of 1990 (the latter was partly the
consequence of restrictive foreign exchange allocation policies adopted in
September 1990). In addition, delays in adjustments of domestic prices of oil
products resulted in a decline in oil tax revenues from about 1.2% of GDP in
1989 to about .4% of GDP in 1990. As a result, the fiscal deficit reached
9.1% of GDP in 1990, well above the projected 6.9% of GDP. Public savings, on
the other hand, stayed at the same level as in 1989 (about -1.7% of GDP)
compared to a target of .5% of GDP. The external debt rose marginally to
US$3.4 billion in 1990, but external outflows increased substantially (in
excess of US$400 million) as Honduras cleared its arrears with the
multilateral financial institutions and resumed servicing of its external
debt.
20.         Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, increased from
about 10% in 1989 to about 23% in 1990 as a result of a 20% increase in money
supply narrowly defined (M1) that took place at the end of 1989, and of
increases in international oil prices in the second half of 1990. The
increase in money supply was, in turn, the result of the increase in credit to
the public sector to finance the fiscal deficit.
21.         Basic economic indicators for 1990, with comparisons to earlier
years, are summarized in Table 1 below. More detailed country economic data
and projections are presented in Annex I.



- a -
Table I
ONDURPAS: Basic Economic Indicatorg
Growth Rates (% per annum) Projections
1980-89           1990         1991-95
Grose Domestic Product                  2.2            -1.0             3.3
Total Consumption                       3.1            -2.6             1.8
Gross Domestic Investment             -1.7              5.6             2.8
Exports                                 1.2            -1.1             7.4
Imports                                  .2            -3.1             2.8
Inflation (CPI period average)         7.4             23.0            13.6
Population                              3.0             2.8             2.8
22.         Despite developments in 1990, prospects for program performance in
1991 are encouraging.  The fiscal deficit is projected to decline to 4.9% of
GDP as a result of the full impact of the March 1990 tax reform on revenues,
new tax measures (increases in oil tax revenue, linkage of the banana tax to
the exchanga rate and a new coffee tax), and increases in electricity tariffs
that have been taking place since June 1991 (para. 86). The projected fiscal
deficit would be consistent with a reduction in public sector indebtedness
with the Central Bank if the projected external financing materializes in a
timely manner. In the financial sector, lending interest rates have been
largely liberalized, except for low-cost housing and basic grain productiont
controls of lending rates on the latter are to be phased out by the end of
1991. These actions should allow the Government to adhere to the goals and
targets of the stabilization and adjustment program by encouraging savings in
domestic currency and by eliminating Central Bank financing of the fiscal
deficit. With respect to the trade regime, foreign exchange restrictions
introduced in September 1990 limited the impact of trade liberalization on the
economy. In May 1991, the Government Introduced greater flexibility Into the
system by removing restrictions on the use of the parallel markst for
financing import transactions. As a result of the measures outlined above, we
anticipate that the recession should bottom out within the next few months and
medium-term prospects for sustainable growth should improve.
F.  MEDIUM TERM PROJECTIONS AND FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
23.         Honduras' macroeconomic prospects will depend on the Government's
ability to address the various issues discussed earlier, which stand in the
way of increased private sector confidence. The economic projections are
based on the assumptions that the Government, will (i) continue its fiscal and
monetary policies to stabilize the economy; (ii) pursue a flexible exchange
rate policy to avoid any real exchange rate appreciation that could threaten
the effects of the trade reform on export growth; and (iii) make periodic
adjustments in public utility tariffs to avoid their erosion by inflation. It



- 9 -
is also assumed that significant amounts of assistance will continue to be
provided on concessional terms.
24.         Under that scenario, Honduras' growth prospects improve with still
low GDP growth (1.5%) in 1991 gradually increasing to about 5% by the end of
the decade. Continued implementation of the stabilization and adjustment
measures would preserve price stability, strengthen Honduras' long-term growth
prospects, and improve its balance of payments. Interest rate liberalization
and the ending of credit allocation policies are expected to increase private
savings and private investment efficiency. Growth would be sustained through
increases in production of exportables and efficiency gains in investment
resulting from the structural adjustment measures. National savings are
projected to increase from 2.9 percent of GDP in 1989 to about 9.2 percent of
GDP by 1995, after falling to -2.1 percent of GDP in 1990 as a result of the
deterioration in the terms of trade.
25.         Tax revenues are projected to increase from 13.2% of GDP in 1989
to about 15.7% of GDP in 1991, when the full impact of the Government's
austerity measures will be felt. The measures to reduce public consumption
would yield additional savings of about 1.2 percentage points of GDP over 1989
levels in 1991. Despite a projected increase in interest payments by about
3.0 percentage points of GDP in 1991 (as compared to 1989 levels), public
sector savings, which were negative during 1988-90, are projected to improve
and reach about 3.0% of GDP. Tax revenues will decline as a percentage of GDP
during 1992-95 as the rate of growth of private consumption (one of the
determinants of sale and import taxes) falls below that of real GDP, to about
14.3% of GDP by 1995 and would remain at that level thereafter. Modest rates
of growth in public consumption would allow the public sector to attain
savings equivalent to 3.8% of GDP by 1995. The overall public sector deficit
would decline to 3.2% of GDP by 1995.
26.         The trade reform implemented as part of the structural adjustment
measures is leading to a more open economy, which will require shifting
resources toward the production of exportable goods such as bananas, coffee,
shrimp, vegetables and out-of-season fruits, for which Honduras has an
international competitive advantage. A condition to enable this to take place
is that investors are confident about the Government's commitment to these
policies. Pursuing a flexible exchange rate management will be particularly
important in this regard. Moreover, efficient import substitution would
complement the effects of export expansion by reducing the country's imports
of basic grains. Total exports are projected to grow at about 7.3 percent per
annum in real terms during 1992-95, while non-traditional exports would
increase at a rate of 8.6 percent per annum.
27.         An adequate level of imports will be needed to sustain the
projected level of GDP growth. It is expected that the trade reform will
encourage an increase in imports to match the projected higher levels of
exports. Import volume is projected to grow at an annual average rate of 3.4
percent during 1992-95, a rate that is below the projected export growth rate.
As a result, the resource balance surplus at constant prices would increase
from 3.0 percent of GDP in 1992 to about 5.7 percent of GDP by 1995. At
current prices, the resource balance surplus would increase from .2 percent of
GDP in 1992 to 3.4 percent of GDP by 1995. The projected improvement in the
resource balance should help to bring down the current account deficit of the



- 10 -
balance of payments from 9.5 percent of GDP in 1992 to 3.3 percent of GDP by
1995.
28.         The 1991-95 financing requirements and likely sources of funds,
are shown in Annex I. Gross funding requirements will remain large because of
scheduled amortization payments amounting to an average US$223.2 million per
year. Inflows from grants are projected to drop from the exceptionally high
figure for 1990 of US$208.0 million (which includes undisbursed grants from
the previous year amounting to US$70 million) to US$70 million by 1995. Based
on the pipeline of existing and proposed projects, gross disbursements from
multilateral institutions are projected to increase from US$36.3 million in
1989 to an average US$181.8 million per annum during 1991-95. This amount of
multilateral financing includes estimated Fifth Dimension supplemental credits
at the FY92 Board-approved level of 90% of IBRD interest due. Should Fifth
Dimension and donor flows be less than estimated, financing gaps could emerge.
29.         The growth scenario described above is very sensitive to
departures from the adjustment program, in particular, to any deviations from
the trade reform program. The rate of economic growth projected under the
structural adjustment scenario would not be sustainable if import substitution
policies replace the trade reform program. Were this to occur, the two major
sources of economic growth, namely, export growth and efficiency gains in
investment productivity would not materialize, and real GDP growth would fall
below population growth.
30.         The growth scenario described above is also sensitive to any
failure to implement the fiscal adjustment program. If the projected
reductions in the public sector deficit do not materialize, the Central Bank
would have to finance the higher fiscal imbalances with monetary creation. As
a result, inflationary pressures would increase, and the exchange rate would
become unsustainable as the monetary imbalances filtered out through balance
of payments deficits. Systemic deficits in the balance of payments would
totally exhaust Central Bank (net) international reserves and a balance of
payments crisis similar to the one that occurred in 1989 would develop. Thus,
full service of the external debt would become untenable and Honduras' access
to external funding would be severely hampered as the IFI's would reduce their
lending to a minimum core program.
31.         In our view, neither of these pessimistic scenarios is highly
probable. We consider that the medium term projections under the structural
adjustment scenario are realistic in view of the measures that the Government
is taking.
G. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
32.         Past Operations.  Since 1955, Honduras has received 36 Bank loans
totalling US$ 696.5 million and 14 IDA credits totalling USS 125.0 million
equivalent, both net of cancellations. Thirty-one loans and thirteen IDA
credits are fully disbursed. The undisbursed balance of the loans and credits
under active implementation totalled about US$ 89.5 million equivalent, as of
June 30, 1991. Honduras has repaid the Bank Group US$ 226.9 million



- 11 -
equivalent, and has a total outstanding IBRD obligation of USS 493.9 million
and an outstanding IDA obligation of US$ 95.2 million equivalent.
33.         Bank group lending initially concentrated on developing basic
infrastructure in transport and power, where inadequate facilities hampered
the country's development. In the last decade, the Bank diversified its
lending to support the expansion of productive capacity in agriculture,
industry and tourism and to address major needs in education, municipal
development and water supply. As the economic situation deteriorated in the
late 1980s and early 90s, financial support for implementation of economic
adjustment programs has been emphasized. A statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits is presented in Annex II. The distribution of Bank Group lending
during the past ten years is shown in Table 2 below.
Table 2
HONDURAS: Distribution of Lending FYS1-91
(US$ millions)
Sector                   Amount                                     I Proiects
Agriculture              70.0                     19                      2
Industry/Finance         65.5                    18                       2
Social/Poverty           24.4                      7                      2
Transport                23.2                      6                      1
Water Supply             19.6                      5                      1
Municipal Devt.           6.9                      2                      1
Adjustment              160.0                     43                      3
TOTAL            369.6                  100.0                     12
34.         Country Assistance Strate-v.  In view of the country's urgent need
to manage its short term external financing difficulties and to promote medium
term structural change, the country assistance strategy for Honduras
emphasizes IDA support for the Government's macroeconomic and sectoral
adjustment efforts through fast-disbursing policy based lending, complemented
by selected investment projects, particularly those targeted to poverty
alleviation and to improving infrastructure public and institutions so as to
remove bottlenecks to economic growth. The main objectives of IDA's medium
term assistance are to help: (i) consolidate and deepen the structural
adjustment measures taken to date and support the economic reform process,
thereby promoting the country's growth and development; (ii) alleviate poverty
and the impact of adjustment on the poorest sectors of the economy; (iii)
increase public sector efficiency; (iv) protect the environment and improve
management of natural resources; and (v) mobilize and diverrify the
Government's concessional sources of external finance for the public sector
investment program. To ensure effective coordination of IDA assistance with
other donor programs, regular meetings of the Consultative Group for Honduras
will be held, and co-financing will be actively sought for all operations.
35.         In view of the country's low per capita income and marginal
creditworthiness, Honduras was declared IDA eligible in August 1990. In
August 1991, after a review of Honduras' economic situation and per capita
income level and in light of the severe development constraints imposed by the
country's substantial external debt, Bank/IDA management decided to
discontinue Bank lending and initiate an IDA-only assistance strategy



- 12 -
beginning in FY92. Because of Honduras' heavy debt service obligations, its
creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve only towards the end of
the decade. Also, per capita GDP is only expected to increase slowly in real
terms from its present level of US$538 per capita. Consequently, continued
high levels of concessional assistance from the IDA as well as mobilizing
maximum co-financing on highly concessional terms will be critical elements in
carrying out our financial assistance strategy. The shift to an IDA-only
strategy should prove beneficial in this respect as it would permit other
donors to consider providing their development assistance and/or debt relief
on the most generous terms available to lower middle income countries.
36.         Bank Groun Lending Program.  Implementation of the strategy
outlined above began in July 1990, following clearance of Honduras' arrears to
the Bank Group. Since then, the Bank Group lending program has included: (i)
reactivation of the second tranche of SAL I in July 1990; (ii) approval of SAL
II in September 1990 (US$ 90 million); (iii) approval of a Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) in January 1991 to assist the Government with the
short-term impact of higher oil prices (SDR 14.3 million); and (iv) approval
of an IDA credit in February 1991 to support the operation of the Honduran
Social Investment Fund (FHIS) and other targeted poverty alleviation
initiatives (SDR 14.3 million).
37.         During FY92, the lending program would give priority to supporting
the Government's sectoral adjustment programs in the energy and agriculture
sectors. Thereafter, the lending program will place greater emphasis on
investment projects, addressing issues of poverty alleviation, social sector
restructuring, and infrastructure rehabilitation. Based on the experience
with the on-going and proposed adjustment operations, by FY94 we will consider
whether follow up adjustment operations would be appropriate to consolidate
the benefits of the first phase of economic reform and adjustment lending.
Implementation of the proposed lending strategy will be dependent on continued
availability of sufficient IDA resources for Honduras and on the country's
adjustment program "staying on track." Should significant policy slippages
occur, a reassessment of IDA's assistance role in Honduras would be made and a
much reduced level of core credit operations focussing mainly on the social
sectors would need to be considered. Summary information on proposed
operations in the early years of the pipeline is presented in the paragraphs
below; the proposed Energy Sector Adjustment Credit is discussed in detail in
Part III.
38.         Given the dominance of the agriculture sector in output, exports,
and employment, the Bank and the IDB are working closely with the Honduran
authorities on the preparation of an Agricultural Sector Adjustment operation
that would consolidate the agricultural sector reforms initiated under SAL II
and support additional policy reforms designed to allow taking advantage of
the country's comparative advantage in agriculture and to strengthen
agricultural growth in both traditional and non-traditional exports. The
possib.e adjustment operation would address issues related to: (i) price and
trade policy for agricultural commodities; (ii) forest sector policies and
sustainable management of timber resources; (iii) land markets and land tenure
policies; (iv) the rural financial sector; and (v) public sector management in
the agricultural sector (expenditure programming and budgeting, institutional
reform, etc.). This sector adjustment operation, tentatively scheduled for



- 13 -
late thi fiscal year, would be co-financed with the IDS, and other external
financial support is also being sought.
39.         The Bank Group has actively assisted the Government in defining
and implementing a two-pronged strategy for addressing Honduras' Rovgrty. The
first element of the strategy has consisted of the rapid establishment of
emergency programs, such as the FHIS and targeted food coupon programs, to
deploy a safety net to protect the country's neediest groups over the short
term. The second component of the strategy is medium term in nature, and
consists of the identification of a broad range of policy reforms, whose
introduction would result in improved resource allocation among social
programs, greater operational efficiency, and better targeting of services to
the needier groups of the population. Discussions are currently on-going with
the Honduran authorities regarding the appropriate focus and design of one or
two follow-up social sector operations, for possible presentation to the Board
in FY93, concentrating on social sector restructuring and nutrition/health
interventions.
40.         An analysis of transport infrastructure recuirements for the
success of Honduras' export-oriented strategy indicates the need for reducing
transport costs to improve the competitiveness of Honduran goods, as well as
for the development of policies to strengthen transport sector management and
encourage the participation of the private sector in the provision of
transport services. The Government has expressed its interest in an IDA-
financed Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project to address these issues, and
a possible operation is scheduled for FY94. A sector study is being completed
which identifies the principal constraints in the sector as well as the areas
where IDA assistance could be most effective; discussions with Government will
take place in the coming months. Following consultation with the Government
on the study's findings, we expect to share the report with all interested
donors for aid coordination purposes.
41.         Economic and Sector Work (ESW.  As mentioned earlier, during the
past fiscal year a major review of social sector programs was completed, and a
review of transport sector issues was initiated and substantially completed.
in addition, informal studies on fiscal reform, export incentives, and the
public sector investment program were prepared during SAL II supervision.
These studies have been an important element in the development of action
plans by the Honduran authorities to enable them to meet the conditions f
second tranche release (para.17). In the medium term we plan to analyze
constraints to private sector development, conduct an in-depth study of the
financial sector (to follow up the reforms begun under SAL II), and complete a
Country Economic Memorandum for Honduras. Sector work will focus on public
sector management, national environmental priorities, constraints to women's
labor market participation, and water supply and sanitation issues. We expect
these studies to lay a sound analytical framework for our future policy
dialogue and possible lending activities.
42.         Ccuntgy Stratezv and IMplementation Review (CSIR1.  The Bank Group
and the Honduran authorities have agreed to hold a CSIR meeting in late
September 1991, to review implementation issues of the country assistance
strategy to date and to exchange views on the appropriate size, composition
and focus of the medium term assistance program for the FY93-95 period. The
overall assistance objectives, lending strategy, and E8W tasks outlined above,



- 14 -
would provide the framework for CSIR discussions, and the outcome of these
consultations would be reflected in possible adjustments to the lending
pipeline and planned ESW tasks.
43.         Aid Coordination.  Because of Honduras' significant external
financing needs, particularly with the clearance of multilateral arrears, aid
coordination has played a crucial role in the success of the program to date.
Aid coordination efforts will remain a high priority given the country's large
external resource requirements and the many interested donors supporting the
reform program. The principal mechanism will be the Consultative Group (CG)
for Honduras, in conjunction with informal donor meetings organized around
specific themes, including establishment of investment priorities and building
consensus for addressing long-term development issues. During the past fiscal
year, a CG meeting was held in Paris in December 1990 which focussed on the
Government's poverty alleviation efforts. The next CG meeting for Honduras is
scheduled for March 1992, and we would expect to convene the Group
periodically thereafter at roughly 18 month intervals.
44.         Co-financing.  Co-financing, particularly on concessional terms,
is now a central feature of the InA program with Honduras. In the area of
oovertv alleviation, IDA has worked closely with other donors in developing
the financing plan for the FHIS, in particular with the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany, and it is also collaborating with the
Government of Japan and UNDP in developing a second social sector operation.
IDA will be working with the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) during FY92 on a rural poverty study, to analyze constraints and
identify operational responses which could be supported by the IDA and IFAD.
Regarding co-financing for adiustment lendina, IDB has actively participated
in preparation and supervision of the SAL II; KfW has participated in a
supervision mission and is in the process of reviewing compliance with
conditions of approving its co-financing of SAL II second and third tranches.
The proposed Energy and possible Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credits have
been jointly prepared by IDA/IDS teams; co-financing possibilities with the
ID8 are also being explored for the social sector operation under discussion
with the Honduran authorities. Discussions are underway to determine the
interest of the Government of Japan in co-financing the possible Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Credit. As has been the practice, close collaboration will
be maintained with cofinanciers through joint project preparation and
supervision.
45.         IFC Onerations.  Beginning in 1984, IFC has made four loan and
equity investments in pulp and paper, leather tanning, textiles, and shrimp
farming totalling US$11 million. IFC is working to develop additional
investment projects in priority sectors with an export orientation and strong
sponsors. Projects in agriculture and export processing zones are under
discussion. IFC could also render assistance in privatization transactions.
IFC will continue frequent promotion missions and will use the Caribbean
Project Development Facility to develop viable project proposals, where
necessary. At the request of the Government, FIAS reviewed the Honduran legal
and regulatory framework for private investment and made recommendations to
the authorities for improving the country's investment code (para. 12). This
effort was partly financed by USAID.



- 15 -
H. RELATIONS WITH THE IMF
46.   The Bank and the IMF have been working in close collaboration in
Honduras and the programs of the two institutions are mutually consistent and
reinforcing. In July 1990, the IMF's Executive Board approved Honduras'
request for a standby arrangement of SDR 30.5 million, with an initial
purchase of SDR 16.5 million upon Board approval. The first review was
completed in December 1990, with purchase of SDR 4.3 million immediately
thereafter. A letter of intent was signed in May 1991, defining the economic
program and targets for the remainder of 1991. The second review was
completed in early June 1991, paving the way for a purchase of SDR 2.3
million. The program period has been extended through February 1992, with
remaining purchases tied to end-of-quarter performance criteria through the
end of calendar 1991 and to a third review to be completed by October 1991.
I. SUMMARY ASSESSMENT
47.         Honduras has begun a long overdue process of economic reform.
Preliminary results of the program are encouraging, and medium-term prospects
for sustainable growth are improving. Nevertheless, the country's economic
and financial situation remains fragile, as the economy is still highly
vulnerable to external shocks. Increases in the debt-service burden resulting
from rising international interest rates, devaluation of the U.S. dollar vis-
a-vie other major currencies, or drops in the prices of coffee or bananas
could render the external accounts very difficult to manage. The authorities
are also likely to face popular resistance to continued austerity measures, as
well as a lack of support from parts of the private sector, uncomfortable with
the shift to greater reliance on market forces, in lieu of the more
traditional means of direct Government intervention. IDA's proposed program
of assistance, including the proposed Energy Sector Adjustment operation,
plays a key role in supporting the Government's efforts to deepen its
structural reforms and ensuring that inadequate or untimely levels of external
finance are not a cause of policy backsliding.
48.         Implementation of the IDA assistance strategy is conditional on
the continued willingness and ability of the Government to carry out the
adjustment effort; it will require close monitoring and may require interim
management reviews of necessary adjustments to the strategy as events develop.
Criteria to judge progress would include a supportive macro-economic
framework, particularly management of the exchange rate and public finances;
public sector management and public enterprise performance; and progress in
poverty alleviation and social sector reform. Each sector adjustment credit
would be coordinated with, and tied to, the macroeconomic adjustment program,
as well as to relevant elements of other sector credits, where appropriate.
Before effectiveness and the release of each tranche of the proposed Enercv
Sector Adjustment Credit. the soundness and consistency of the medium-term
economic framework would be reviewed to ensure that the Rroaram remains on
track (oaras. 108. 108 ti) a. and 103 (ii) a).



- 16 -
PART Ex - MHE SCORN=    UTMN   R0R~
A. SECTO BACbQKGRUND
49.         The energy sector has played, and will continue to play, an
important role in the economlc development of Honduras. The sector relies
mostly on two major indigenous energy resources: fuelwood and hydropower. At
present the country does not produce any petroleum, and is totally dependent
on imports to meet its needs.   oil consumption is about 16,000 bbl/d and has
been growing at an average of 7.2% per year during the laet four years. The
impact on the balance of payments is significant as the oil import bill in
1990 amounted to US$143 million, representing about 13% of export earnings.
50.         Fuelwood and biomass meet around 67% of the total final energy
demand; petroleum, 29%; and electricity, 4%. Households account for 60% of
total energy use, followed by transportation and agriculture (26%) and by
industry (14%). The low level of industrial usage reflects the country's
modest degree of industrialization. Food processors are the main industrial
users (50%), followed by the petroleum refinery and chemical companies (13%).
Sl.         The degree of electrification in Honduras is low compared with
other Latin American countries. only about 36% of Honduras' inhabitants have
access to electricity. While 80-90% of the urban population receive
electricity, only about 19% of rural inhabitants are connected. These figures
compare with shares among the total population of 42% urban and 58% rural, and
reflect the low level of electrification in rural areas. By the end of 1990
the total number of connected consumers was 325,500, of which 294,300 were
residential. Electricity consumption per capita was about 323 kWh in 1990
(this figure may be compared, for example, with 192 Kwh for Guatemala, 438 kWh
for the Dominican Republic, and 1,000 kWh for Brazil). A description of the
evolution, situation and prospects of the electric power subsector is given in
Annex V.
52.         In the late 1970s, influenced by concerns about rising oil prices
and prospects for potential electricity exports for the region, and in the
expectation of easy access to the world's financial markets, Honduras
initiated construction of a large hydropower project, El Cat6n, with Bank and
IDA assistance. Though El Caj6n served to reduce oil imports, exports of
surplus electricity to neighboring countries were less than expected because
of the social and political turmoil in the region, and the debt service burden
related to the project became increasingly onerous due to the devaluation of
the dollar vAJ Ljvil the various currencies in which the debt is denominated.
In 1990, the external debt of the national power company, Empresa Nacional de
Energia Bl6ctrica (ENEE), stood at US$721 million, which represents about 22%
of Honduras total foreign debt. As a result, ENES's debt service, amounting
to about US$90 million in 1991, will bear heavily on Honduras foreign exchange
needs.



- 17 -
B. GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
53.          The Government with the assistance of IDA and the IDB has
prepared the ESAP to address the main energy sector issues as discussed below.
The USAP would involve institutlonal reforms and specific policy measures to
be implemented under detailed plans of action for each area of the energy
sector. The Government's Letter of Energy Sector Development Policy and the
Policy Matrix summarizing the objectives and the key actions to be taken for
each area under the ESAP are provided in Annex III and IV, respectively.
These efforts would complement reforms initiated under SAL II for public
enterprises, thus deepening the ongoLng adjustment effort.
54.         The main obiegtives of the prooram are to help (i) establish a
comprehensive energy policy and strategy and a sound regulatory framework for
the sector; (ii) restore ENEE's financial soundness and operational efficiency
and thereby contribute significantly to the achievement of the Government's
structural adjustment program; (iii) improve electricity pricing and resource
allocation in the sectorl (iv) promote petroleum exploration and produ:tion;
(v) liberalize petroleum product trade; and (vi) encourage greatur private
sector participation in the sector.
RAerY setor
55.         Policy and Strateay.  Historically, Honduras has not had a
comprehensive energy policy or strategy for developing the sector. This is
largely a result of inadequate planning and poor coordination among
institutions involved in the sector -- many of which with ill-defined or
overlapping functions -- along with politicized decision-making. In view of
the important role of the sector in the economy, the Callejas AdministratLon
has developed a formal energy policv and strategy. This strategy will serve
to consolidate the gains achieved under the macroeconomic adjustment program
and will ensure the contribution of the sector to the country's development in
the medium and long-term. The main objectives of the Government'e energy
sector pollzy are to provide a reliable energy supply at least-cost, and to
reduce the negative impact of the sector on fiscal resources and on the
country's balance of payments. To implement this policy, the principal
elements of the Government's sector itrateay involve setting electrleity
prices based on economic principles (i.e. long-run marginal costs) and
financial considerations, and allowing market forces to play effectively their
resource allocation role for oil products through competition and promotion of
private investment in oil and gas exploration. Thi Government's sector
policies are presented in its letter of sector development policy (Annex III).
S6.         Institutional Framework.  There are several agencies responsible
for energy activities, whose efforts are poorly coordinated. These agencies
and their respective responsibilities ares the Ministry of Planning (SECPLAN),
for approving sector plans; ENEE for electricity supply; the Ministry of
Natural Resources, for petroleum exploration; the Ministry of Economy, for
petroleum distribution, pricing, and reiinery supervision; the Ministry of
Public Works, for transport; and the Forestry Development Corporation
(COHDEFOR), for wood/charcoal production.



- 18 -
57.         To address the lack of coordination among sector entities, the
Government has formed the National Energy Commission (NEC) composed of the
Economic Cabinet and the Minister of Public Works (who is the President of
ENEE), which will be responsible for establishing sector policy. The NEC is
in charge of implementing policy refornis and is being supported by a Technical
Energy Group (GTE) which will act as the NEC's technical support body,
comprising officials from the different ministries and entities involved in
sector activities. Satisfactorv performance of the NEC. defined as executino
its responsibilities as provided for undgr its establishing decree. woula be a
condition for release of the second and third tranches (Rara. 108 Aii c and
fii) c).
58.         Interfuel Substitution.  Fuelwood is the main source of energy in
Honduras. While the country is not experiencing overall fuelwood shortages
nor is there any prospect of natural shortages for the foreseeable future,
Honduras' energy strategy should focus on optimizing the contribution of
forest resources to the economy. The expansion of the agricultural frontier
and excessive fuelwood demand in some regions has brought about cases of
localized deforestation. Such deforestation has already affected several
watersheds and, in the case of the El Caj6n reservoir, may reduce its
electricity generation potential. ENEE has initiated sound basin management
programs to address this issue (para. 98).   Until recently, the Government's
energy policy has not adequately taken into account the optimization of use of
forestry resources for the economy. The limited access of the rural poor to
alternative sources of energy implies that they are likely to continue to rely
significantly on fuelwood as long as it is relatively abundant and is the
lowest cost alternative.
59.         To assist the Government in its efforts to investigate the
potential for energy savings and interfuel substitution where local fuelwood
shortages do exist, the proposed operation includes under the technical
assistance component of the ESAP, a comprehensive study on interfuel
substitution. The study would be carried out by qualified consultants under
terms of reference acceptable to IDA to analyze the effects of the measures
included in the ESAP regarding prices of energy products, and to ensure that
the usage of fuelwood remains sustainable, within a suitable policy and
institutional framework to improve the management of forestry resources.
Completion and submission of the study to IDA would be a condition of release
of the second tranche Joara. 108 (i) b). Presentation to IDA of a
setisfact2ry final version of the interfuel substitution study.includino a
satisfactory action plan would be a condition of release of the third tranche
lara.- 108 (ii) bl.
Electric Power Subsector
60.         Corporate Autonomv.  ENEE, which is responsible for the public
supply of electricity within the country -- except for a few small isolated
systems -- does not operate within an institutional framework which provides
for adequate autonomy. Legal changes in the late 1980s have gradually
curtailed its operating independence, contributing to inefficiency and poor
financial performance. The most important changes have been modifications to
the Public Administration Law of 1986, under which any electricity tariff
changes and ENEE's annual work program and budget have to be approved by
Congress. A separate Government decision to provide electricity without any



- 19 -
charge to public sector institutions has also negatively affected ENEE's
finances and has promoted waste of energy.
61.         In addition to the above changes, Government interference in
ENEE's day-to-day operations has increased sharply, involving political
appointments to top management positions, hiring excessive personnel,
implementing uneconomical rural electrification programs, and interfering in
ENEE's commercial (billing and collection) practices, resulting in a large
accumulation of accounts receivable. More recently (May 1991), the Government
was forced to intervene to settle a strike by ENEE's labor union (STENEE),
which is the country's strongest union. The terms of the settlement, which
gave the union a say on policy decisions regarding tariffs, efficiency
improvements, staffing levels and privatization, have permitted the Government
to move forward with its energy sector adjustment program in spite of the
union's continued uneasiness, particularly towards privatization and staff
reduction initiatives.
62.         The Government's program addresses in a two-step approach ENEE's
need for autonomy to allow it to sperate on a commercial basis, free from day-
to-day Government interference. As a first step, the Government has
established a Public Utilities Regulatory Commission (PURC) which will have
the authority to set tariffs for the four largest public enterprises (ENEE,
HONDUTEL, SANAA and ENP). The law which created the PURC is in the process of
being amended to ensure the creation of a sufficiently qualified and
representative technical body. The anproval of satisfactory amendments to the
PURC law and the issuance of satisfactory reaulations for the functionina of
the PURC would-be a condition of credit effectiveness fgara. 108). The
issuance and imolementation of specific cuidelines for tariff settina for the
electricity sub2sector. consistent with the agreed electricity orgicina volicy
would be a condition of release of the second tranche (para. 108 {i) c).
Satisfactory i_erformance by the PURC. which would imply execution of its
resoonsibilities as iprovided for under the law which established it and the
relevant reaulations and guidelines, would be a condition of release of the
second and third tranches (para. 108 (i) c and (iii c). As a second step, the
Government will carry out a two-phase institutional reform study -- to be
financed from an IDB Project Preparation Facility -- on possible changes to
the legal status of ENEE which could ensure full autonomy, including the
possibility of full commercialization of the company. Presentation to the
Bank of a satisfactory action Plan to implement the reforms recommended by the
study. including the hirina of consultants for the second phase of the study
would be a condition of release of the second tranche (oara. 108 (i} di.
Satisfactory implementation of the olan would be a condition of release of the
third tranche Joara. 108 fi) d\.
63.         In order to avoid political interference in ENEE's day-to-day
operations, the Government and ENEE have signed a contract-plan (CP) which
clearly establishes mutual responsibilities and a system of control through
performance targets appropriate for a revenue earning entity. A summary of
the CP is presented in Annex VI. ENEE's management is already using the CP to
prepare a detailed business plan under which to operate and has instructed its
organizational units to draw up individual operational plans. Implementation
of the CP and achievement of sDecified targets would be monitored in addition
to the other actions described below in oaras. 71-72. 77. 83 to iudae
cmliance with the action plan to imorove ENEE's operational and financial



- 20 -
performance for release of the second and third tranches (para. 108 Uil e and
(fl) e}.
64.         Management and operational Performance.  Due in part to the
intensive institutional development efforts of the Bank/IDA starting in 1959
(para. 101), by the mid seventies ENEE was a well run power utility and its
efficiency indicators were in line with, or better than most utilities in
countries in a similar stage of development. However, since the mid 1980s,
ENEE's management was weakened as appointments were frequently made on the
basie of political criteria rather than technical and management skills and
Government interference in ENEE'e operations increased.
65.         NESKe weak management has led to serious administrative
deficiencies which are reflected in organizational arrangements that are no
longer adequate, lack of business-oriented planning, inadequate information
systems, obsolete systems of control and poor communications, particularly
with customers.  Oraan atL_n,  To address the main shortcomings, ENEE shouldt
(i) separate the Administration and Finance Departments, and (ii) appoint a
Commercial Deputy Manager for customer relations. To stimulate better
service, KNEE requires a decentralized decision-making scheme for the regional
offices within a clearly defined system of corporate accountability.
Plganine, The company needs to substitute an integrated corporate planning
system for the current budget, which is imposed by the Government (and lacks
corporate characteristics, especially regarding performance evaluation and
control).  JAL=gtign, As in the case of planning, information activities
are not integrated into an Mansgement Information System (MIS) geared to
decision making. The lack of an integrated MIS results in the issuance of
reports by various departments at different frequencies and often with delay.
Evaluation and-Control. The Internal Auditor is appointed and reports to the
Government's Comptroller's Office, which is part of the legislative branch.
This unit has created serlous obstacles to efficient day-to-day operations by
concentrating its attention on eaXont* instead of ex_ggt reviews of company
transactions. At the same time, there is little supervision of compliance
wlth the internal control features of the few existing norms and procedures
for resource administration and for the company's operations. Comiuni=ctionac
Internal and external communications are poor and should be strengthened.
66.         The management of huMAn resourcg at ENEE has also been inadequate
and hae contributed to the company'o poor operational and financial
performance. The personnel situation can be characterized as follows: (i)
thin senior management cadres (despite the existence of technically well-
qualified professionals); (ll) salary levels hlstorically higher than the
national labor market averagel and (iii) significant overstaffing, especially
in the form of temporary personnel, while at the same time some units lack
qualified staff. There is an urgent need to rationalize ENEE's human
reaources by redeployment of qualified personnel who could adequately perform
in different positions, by selective recruitment of qualified personnel, and
by reduction of redundant staff. At the end of 1989 ENEE had approximately
3,660 employees, including 1,400 temporaries. This level represents an
increase of 10% over 1987 and 34% over 1985, and largely reflects a give away
of jobs made during the pre-election period by the former government. As *f
the end of May 1991, ENEE had reduced its personnel level to 3,250 employees,
and further short-term reductions followed by a virtual freezing of the number
of staff are planned (para. 71).



- 21 -
67.         ENEE's collection practice have been weak with its collection
period increasing from 108 days at the end of 1986 to 3! days at the end of
1990. This reflects both poor management practices and Gc. iment
interference. Besides exempting public sector agencies from payment of
electricity bills, the Government has often instructed ENEE not to disconnect
electricity service to major customers with significant arrears, mainly to
prevent plant closings and layoffs or because the Government was a major
shareholder or creditor of a customer in financial distress. This poor
collection record has, of course, compounded ENEE's difficulties.
68.         With respect to ENEE's operatlonal n2rforman=, overall growth of
electricity sales, excluding international sales, has been 6.6% p.a. during
1980-89, despite low investments made in distribution systems and the low real
CDP growth rate of 2.3% p.a. Electricity generation grew at 9.6% p.a. during
1980-89, compared with 10.8% estimated at appraisal of the El Caj6n Project,
which reflects lower-than-expected level of electricity exports to neighboring
countries due to the political and social turmoil in the region. The excess
capacity resulting from El CaJ6n is gradually diminishing because of the
growth in local demand and by 1993 ENEE will not have surplus energy to
export. Current estimates assume that electricity demand will grow at a more
modest rate of 4.2% p.a. on average during 1990-1995, reflecting, in part, the
impact of proposed rate increases.
69.         The growth in electricity demand during the past few yeara
partially reflecte an increase in waste, as the decision to make electricity a
free service to all Government units led to a rise of 23% p.a. in public
sector consumption. Another contributing factor to higher generation needs
has been the sharp increase in electricity losses -- from 12% in 1985 to 25%
in 1989 -- due both to technical factors (i.e., neglect of distrlbution
networks and meter maintenance) and to increasing illicit oonsumption. ENEE
urgently needs to take the necessary administrative and technical measures to
reduce this high level of losses. Otherwise additional generation capacity
will be required as early as 1993, further compounding ENEE'e financial
difficulties.
70.         In order to assist the Government and ENEE to achiove their goalo
of restructuring the company's organization, and establishing adequate
managment and operational syetems, including a strong policy of personnel
rationalizatlon, the propoeed operation includes a Management and Operational
Restructuring Program (MORP). The MORP would be carried out by NEEE with the
assistance of qualified consultants -- either a reputable and specialized
consulting firm or a well run power utility through a twinning arrangement --
on the basis of terms of reference (TOR) agreed with IDA during appraisal.
These TOR are based on a managerial and operational study carried out by
ArthLr Young under USAID financing which included a diagnosis and
recommendations for action. The MORP will be a hands-on technical assistance
program, comprehensive enough to cover all areas of KNEE, with the basic
objective of improving its efficiency, and in support of the targets included
under the CP between the Government and ENEE.
71.         Significant improvements in productivity would be sought under the
MORP through the enforcement of adequate systems and proceduree for operation
and maintenance of ENEE's installations and improvement of existing
methodologies for planning its operations, including optimization of the



- 22 -
management of El Caj6n and Lake Yojoa reservoirs. The MORP will ensure that
operational practices will be put into place supported by the necessary
training programs and technical staff to take into due account the adequate
handling of environmental matters in investment planning and management, with
particular attention to the management of river basins and water cachement
areas to reduce silting through erosion. The foreign cost of the consultant
services to implement the MORP would be financed by the IDB parallel loan,
unless grant financing is obtained from other sources. Compliance with {i}
the action plan for imcrovina operational and financial performance, which
includes comgletion of the diagnostic phase of the MORP by the second tranche
and its implementation by the third tranche and (ii) specific taraets for
improvino efficiency which would reauire further staff reductions and which
form Egart of the operational and financial rehabilitation vlan would be
conditions of release of the second and third tranches. respectively (para.
108 (i) e and {ii) es.
72.         Since the initiation of the implementation stage of the MORP
cannot be expected before late 1992 and the problem of electricity losses has
become so critical that it merits immediate corrective measures, a program and
timetable to reduce technical and non-technical losses in the short-term was
finalized and agreed with ENEE during appraisal. Program implementation has
already begun. Compliance with the operational and financial rehabilitation
action clan which includes the taraets under the oroaram would be a condition
of second tranche release (para. 108 (i) e). To reduce losses over the medium
term, the proposed IDB parallel loan would finance a distribution project that
includes the investments required to upgrade distribution networks to reduce
technical losses.
73.         Investment.  Given Honduras' severe financial constraints, sound
investment planning has become of particular importance to ensure that the
selection of projects responds to economic criteria. During the late 1980s,
several rural electrification projects were implemented based on political
considerations, without clear economic and financial justification. They have
contributed to the financial crisis of the sector.
74.         Based on this experience, all projects included in the investment
program for 1990-1995 -- and the corresponding sequence -- have been selected
by ENEE under strict economic least-cost principles in agreement with IDA and
IDB. The program includes: (i) rehabilitation of several thermal and hydro
generating plants by 1993; (ii} completion of several on-going works,
including rural electrification; (iii) -enewal and expansion of municipal
distribution grids (the IDB-financed Seven Cities Project); and (iv)
construction of small-scale transmission and generation facilities. The
investment program of ENEE also includes a new generation plant (50 KW gas
turbine) to start operations in 1995, which is based on the latest projected
demand information. These projections reflect (i) expected conservation
efforts from residential consumers expected as a result of the proposed tariff
actions; (ii) a sound plan of new consumer connections; (iii) reduction in
electricity losses; (iv) energy conservation on the part of Government
consumers (by charging them for their electricity consumption); and (v) slower
industrial consumption growth consistent with country growth prospects
commensurate with the ongoing adjustment program. The average investment for
the 1991-94 period is about L 280 million p.a.; however, there exists a heavy
concentration in 1991-92 with about L 380 million p.a., due inter alia to the



- 23 -
need to rehabilitate distribution networks and complete works in progress
committed under bilateral financial agreements.
75.         The interconnection with neighboring countries would be
strengthened to facilitate exports of excess energy and to increase the
reliability of the system. A significant bottleneck in the transmission line
with Nicaragua has recently been eliminated after several years. El Salvador
is very much interested in building an interconnection line to benefit from
water storage in Honduras during the rainy season and use during the dry
season via energy interchanges with advantages to both countries. A possible
project for this purpose is under study by the respective Governments and
would be reviewed by IDA at its comp'letion.
76.         Adherence to a least-cost investment orogram for electric power
expansion. including the costs to miticate any neaative imoact on the
environment and to take adeauate consideration of the resettlement of
oooulation affected, would be one of the main characteristics of the ESAP. and
this purpose several steps--including the carrying out of consultant studies--
have already been taken to ensure that adequate and reliable data is available
for the preparation of the sector expansion plan. Close scrutiny would also
be given to distribution improvements and expansion. The costs of the
candidate projects for the expansion program include the costs to mitigate any
negative impact on the environment and to take adequate consideration of the
resettlement of population affected. Under the ESAP, one of the most urgent
actions to be taken would be the prompt rehabilitation of the existing thermal
and hydro plants which will be required in 1993, before any new generating
plant is commissioned.
77.         In order to define the principles on which the selection of
investment would be made, ENEE has established clear guidelines on investment
selection principles. ENEE has agreed that revisions of the investment
program will be carried out on an annual basis to update the projects included
in the investment program and their sequence. Comoliance with the o2erational
and financial rehabilitation action vlan which includes the annual submission
of the updated investment program consistent with the adopted irincioles is a
condition of the release of the second and third tranches loara. 108 (it e and
(ii) e).
78.         Sector Finances.  ENEE's financial situation has been
deteriorating since the mid 1980s as a result of various factors, inter alias
(i) the maintenance, until recently, of average tariffs at their 1986 nominal
level despite inflation and currency devaluation; (ii) lower-than-expected
sales, as growth of the domestic and export electricity markets was below
original projections due to the economic and political problems that besieged
the region in recent years, and failure to collect from the principal export
market due to the financial problems Nicaragua faces; (iii) heavy debt service
resulting from the El Caj6n project, aggravated by revaluation of the basket
of currencies in which many of the loans were denominated relative to the US
dollar (to which the lempira has been pegged); (iv) deterioration in the
management of accounts receivable together with increasing local currency
interest rates which raised the cost of short-term commercial bank financing;
(v) free energy supplied to the central Government and its agencies since 1983



- 24 -
(which in 1989 was equivalent to US$5.0 million); and (vi) sharp devaluations
of the lempira in 1990.
79.         The return on average revalued fixed assets declined from about
10% in 1984 to 8.3% in 1985, 4.4% in 1988, 5.2% in 1989 and 2.2% in 1990. The
reduction in profitability was affected by the increase in the tariff base
with the commissioning of new fixed assets, principally the El Caj6n project.
Fixed assets in service tripled from USS348 million equivalent in 1984 to
US$1,047 million in 1985, which in turn resulted in higher depreciation
charges. Finally, during the period 1986 to 1990 financial charges more than
offset the positive operational return and resulted in accumulated losses of
about US$74.0 million.
80.          ENEE's total indebtedness at end-1990, equivalent to US$773
million (L 4,097 million), represented 75% of the enterprise's total debt and
equity. Out of this total, L 3,139 million was long term debt and L 958
million were arrears on debt service payments. Of the total long-term debt,
about 5% is in local currency and the remainder relates to long-term foreign
currency loans. About 31% of the foreign exchange debt is denominated in US
dollars, 64% in European and Japanese currencies, and 5% in other currencies.
The failure to adjust tariffe periodically as required has allowed ENEF's
financial position to become very weak.
81.         In order to overcome the difficult financial situation of ENEE,
which has caused a significant accumulation of arrears, a Financial
Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) has been prepared (see Annex VII). The FRP seeks to
strengthen ENEE's finances by increasing internal fund generation through an
adequate tariff system and by injecting equity contributions to strengthen its
capital structure. Participation of external creditors has taken place, under
the general country negotiations with Honduras foreign creditors. As
indicated in para. 15, Paria Club negotiations were successfully completed in
September 1990 with Honduras receiving the most favorable conditions available
to highly-indebted, lower middle-income countries thus improving the structure
of some of ENEE's external debt. Under the ESAP, financial discipline for
KNEE would be institutionalized in the management of working capital,
particularly in collection and payment practices. The FRP has the following
key targetes
(i)   cash operating margin, defined as the percentage of operating
revenue left after coverage of cash operating expense of 83% in
1991 and 1992;1
(Li)   minimum self-financing ratio of 25% starting in 1993;
(iii)   maximum debt-equity ratio of 67/33 starting in 1991;
l   This is expected to result in a rate of return on net fixed assets in
operation of about 5.0% in 1991 and 6.7% in 1992. The cash operating margin has
been selected as a financial performance indicator because it can be monitored
on a monthly basis, thereby allowing a closer, more frequent supervision of
financial performance.



- 25 -
(iv) maximum collection period of 60 days by 1994; and
(v)   minimum debt service coverage of 1.0 timeg in 1991 and 1992 and
1.1 times thereafter.
The conditions for tranche release require improving the collection period
from 302 days at present to 190 days by second tranche and 120 days by third
tranche release, improving the debt service coverage ratio to 0.9 and 1.0 (for
second and third tranche respectively), and achieving the 83% cash operating
margin targeted in the FRP.
82.         To achieve the above targets the FRP requires the Government's
support and respective actions concerning the following key elements:
-    to achieve a cash operating ratio of 83% by 1991, for which purpose
the tariff policy outlined in para. 86 needs to be fully applied;
-    to pay its electricity bills and cause all public sector agencies to
pay their bills in a timely manner beginning January 1, 1991; for
this purpose a budgeting mechanism has been put in place;
-    to restructure ENEE's debt so as to align debt service with ENEE's
cash generating capacity;
-    to make an equity contribution, equivalent to the proposed credit and
the fast-disbursing component of the IDB parallel proposed loan plus
debt service differentials on past soft loans that had been on-lent
by the Government to ENEE at market rates plus past unpaid public
sector electricity bills;
-    to settle mutual arrears between ENEE and Government agencies;
-    to create a clearing-house mechanism for electricity bills of
Government and its agencies.
83.         The Government has given its endorsement to the corresponding
commitments implied by the actions described above. With the public sector
receiving free electricity in the past, the Government has provided in 1991
each agency with budget rescurces to cover electricity use. The proposed
operation will monitor paywant compliance and therefore includes ua a
conditjn of credit effectiveness Ipara. 108) the recuirement that all nublic
sector aaencies pay their electricity bills beainnina January 1. 1991 in a
tlmely manner and complv with a olan to settle mutual arrears.  Continuin
comoliagnc with this recuirement under the action olan for operational and
financial gerformance. which includes the achievement of the FRP's taraets.
would be a condition of release of the second and third tranches bgara. 108
iii e And Ui) el.
84.         Electricity Pricing.  Historically, electricity prices in Honduras
had been in line with economic costs, both regarding rate levels and tariff
structure.  Rate setting procedures also had been adequate until 1986 when
Congress assumed authority for setting electricity prices, which before had
been under the authority of ENEE's Board. This resulted in a cumbersome,



- 26 -
politically-oriented approval process for price changes which were not
necessarily based on financial or economic principles.
85.         With about 80% of ENEE's financial costs denominated in, or linked
to, foreign currency, exchange rate devaluations influence significantly
ENEE's finances. As pressure built against the lempira in the late 19809,
access to foreign exchange at the official rate of L2 to US$l helped ENEE to
avoid rate increases. The devaluation in March 1990 to L4 to US$l worsened
significantly ENEE's financial situation. Electricity prices were increased
by an average 60% in nominal terms in September 1990 as part of the
Government's stabilization and adjustment measures. This increase left
average rates short of economic costs by about 15%. The increase to
residential consumers, including middle and upper income users, was much less
than the average thereby distorting the rate structure. A further devaluation
in October 1990 to LS.3/USSl increased the gap between rates and economic
costs further. To ensure the soundess of ENEE's finances, sufficient autonomy
for setting rates needs to be restored along with a pricing policy which
maintains rates aligned with economic costs.
86.         To address current shortcomings of the level and structure of
electricity prices, the Government has stated in its sector policy letter its
commitment to align electricity rates with costs. This would be achieved by a
gradual program of tariff adjustments. In addition to the average tariff
increase of 60% in September 1990, tariffs were adjusted by an average 24.3%
as of June 1, 1991. This increase will be followed by monthly average
increases of 3% to offset the expected erosion of real tariffs by inflation
and devaluation and also allow for progressive increases in real terms.
Expected increases of average tariffs amount to about 36% in dollar terms in
1991 and an additional 36% by the end of 1992. The increases would be applied
during the program period until such time that rates would reach full long run
marginal costs (LRMC)2 for all tariff categories except for residential
consumers below 300 KWh/month. ENEE and the Government have also agreed on an
automatic mechanism for adjusting tariffs from time to time should exchange
rate movements exceed projected levels so as to keep real tariffs from
eroding. Full comoliance with the rate increases aareed and effective
functionina of the adjustment mechanism would be a condition of release of the
second and third tranches as follows: {i} for second tranche release the
average level should have reached 90% of averace LRMC and no tariff categorv
would be set at a level lower than 80% of the individual LRMC aonlicable to
that category, and (iil for third tranche release the average level would
reach full averaae LRMC. while no tariff category would be set at a level
lower than 90% of the individual LRMC applicable to that cateaorv (para. 108
li f and  i I fI.
87.         To cushion the blow of the sharp increases in electricity prices,
the Government initiated a temporary system of direct subsidies to residential
consumers which would amount to about US$2 million equivalent from June 1991
For purposes of evaluating LRMC the following average values
(expressed in June, 1991 dollars) will be utilized: (i) USS80/MWh
for low voltage; (ii) US$59/MWh for mid-voltage; and (iii)
US$47/MWh for high voltage.



- 27 -
through end 1992. Those subsidies are to be phased out in early 1993. Full
eLimination of the subsidies would be a condition of release of the third
tranghe loara. 108 (ii) a).
Petroleum Subsector
88.         Exi,loration.  The potential for discovery of oil in commercial
quantities has not yet been sufficiently explored because of: (i) inadequate
efforts by the Government to promote exploration; (ii) lack of human and
financial resources; and (iii) the absence of an attractive incentive
framework for private capital. This is particularly important as the country
relies completely on imported petroleum supplies. However, the Government has
had an indecisive attitude to the promotion process, with on-and-off actions
which have not permitted the effective participation of the major
international oil companies.
89.         In collaboration with the Bank, the Government initiated a
petroleum exploration promotion project (Loan 1861-Ho, June 1980) to encourage
foreign oil companies to explore the most promising areas (para. 102). Under
the project, the acquisition and interpretation of 27,000 line-km of
aeromagnetic data was carried out, along with the interpretation of over
30,000 line-km of existing offshore seismic data. This data constitutes a
rich source of information for prospective parties interested in oil
exploration.
90.         The Government has decided to take a more proactive policy in the
sector. Under Honduras' Hydrocarbon Law, the responsibility for overall
petroleum exploration activities within the Government has been given to the
Ministry of Natural Resources, and within this to the General Directorate of
Mines and Hydrocarbons (DGMH). Within the scope of the petroleum exploration
promotion project, DGMH staff were trained in geophysics, petrology, and
geochemistry. However, DGMH needs further strengthening if an effective
promotion campaign is to be successfully carried out.
91.         The Government's ESAP would support an action plan for a petroleum
exploration promotion campaign to open the petroleum provinces of Honduras to
international bidding through: (i) the sale of data gathered under the
Exploration Promotion Project financed by Loan 1861-HO; and (ii) the hiring of
specialized experts to market exploration prospects to internationally
qualified oil companies and to assist in nigotiations and monitoring of
petroleum agreements. For this purpose the proposed credit would include a
technical assistance component of US$600,000 equivalent, which inter alia will
finance the services of a specialist who would advise the Government in the
bidding and negotiation processes, and in the administration and monitoring of
the exploration contracts. Engagement of this consultant would be a condition
of second tranche release (yara.108 (i) a).
92.         Supoly Manaoement.  The current institutional and regulatory
system in downstream petroleum operations is not conducive to supplying
petroleum products at low cost; and does not provide incentives to reward
efficient operations and to penalize uneconomic operations. Petroleum supply
is characterized by Government involvement both at the policy and operational
levels and by a procurement system for "downstream" activities (refining,
distribution, transportation, etc.) working on a cost plus basis which



- 28 -
provides no incentive for efficient operations. The Petroleum Administrative
Commiusion (CAP) under the Ministry of E; -omy has the excluslve authority to
purchase abroad and resell in the domestLi *narket crude and petroleum
products. Under its mandate, it purchases crude, mainly from Mexico and
Venezuela, which under the San Jose Accord, provide preferential terms to the
Central American countries, and resells it to the Texaco refinery (the only
one ln the country) which supplies about 60% of total consumption. Government
has given Texaco the authorization for the purchase abroad of petroleum
products for the remaining 40%. Hence, Texaco has a monopoly on the domestic
supply of petroleum products. The CAP also sets prices at each point in the
supply chain up to the retail level. For the purchase of finished products,
Texaco has a CIF agreement with Tex-Trader that covers the supply and
transportation of refined petroleum products delivered to the Texaco refinery
in Puerto Cortes. Domestic distribution ie carried out by private companies,
foreign and national (Texaco, Esso, Shell, Dipsa, and Tropigas).
93.         The refinery operated by Texaco is tied to decisions made by the
CAP, and not by Texaco, on the procurement of crude oil to be processed for
the local market. The distributors of petroleum products must also work
within the limits of a CAP imposed pricing structure. By and large, the
regulatory system provides for cost-plus pricing for the refineries and
distributors. The latest Bank/IDA estimates of the cost to the economy of
refining crude versus importing products was in the range of USS8-12 million
in 1988.
94.         A Petroleum Liberalization Plan (PLP), based on the
recommendations of a Petroleum Supply Study completed in 1991 under the
IBRD/UNDP Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), would be
implemented by the Government for the gradual liberalization of petroleum
products supply. The technical assistance component of the proposed operation
would help finance the specialists, particularly regarding regulatory aspects
related to free market operation of the petroleum industry. Their hiring
W2oud be a condition of second tranche release mara. 108 (i) ca.
95.         Technical assistance provided by IDA has helped the Government in
its preparation of the PLP (Annex VIII) and a detailed two-stage plan of
actlon has been agreed upon. The first phase of the plan has already been
introduced and consists of the liberalization of crude imports and of the
application by the CAP of an automatic pricing formula for oil derivatives,
taking into account their opportunity cost through a simulation process. Th
first chase would be completely lm2lemented Prior to second tranche release
Wlaga. 108 1l ) al. The second Phase, to be implemented by not later than
before third tranche release. would consist of full deregulation of trade.
ref ini.g transport and distribution of crude and netroleum products ( oara.
frivate Sector ParticicpAtion
96.         Participation of private investment in power activities is limited
to self-generators and to the small system of the Island of Guanaja. Co-
generation and independent supply to the grid may be the most attractive
opportunities for additional private investment at this time. The
Government's ESAP envisages greater private sector participation in both the
petroleum and power subsectors. To promote this, the regulatory framework for



- 29 -
the power subeector would be reformed through the creation of the NEC and the
PURC and subsequently the institutional reforms arising from the study under
the operation (para. 62) are expected to encourage co-generation and
independent supply to the grid. In addition, important policy changes in the
petroleum subsector, as described in paras. 88-95, would be implemented to
promote private exploration efforts and competition in the distribution of
petroleum products.
97.         Past practices regarding protection of the environment have been
weak and poorly coordinated. In an effort to develop a more comprehensive and
coordinated set of national environmental policies, the Government created in
July 1990 the National Commission of the Environment and Development (CONAMA),
which includes representatives of the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Armed
Forces, private entrepreneurs, the universities and environmental NGOs.
CONAMA is responsible for (i) preparation of legislation; (ii) compliance with
international treaties; (iii) development of policies and regulations; and
(iv) training. CONAMA is currently preparing new legislation for safeguarding
the environment.
98.           The Ministry of Natural Resources is responsible for ensuring
that all future hydro developments have a satisfactory environmental
assessment before they are cleared for implementation. ENEE has generally
taken adequate actions for environmental protection. The power plants which
make use of the waters of the Yojoa lake -- the largest fresh water body in
the country -- have no negative impact on the environment. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR - Report No. 7901 of June 30, 1989) for the El
Caj6n project recognizes that ENEE carried out satisfactorily the
environmental programs associated with the project. As deforestation may
adversely affect the capacity of the El Caj6n watershed area, recommendations
made by the Bank at project completion are being implemented by ENEE through a
Xaster Plan for basin management under OAS execution and IDS financing.
Within the proposed ESAP, the technical assistance provided under the MORP
will include strengthening of the internal capabilities of ENEE to address
environmental matters. Deforestation issues will also be reviewed as part of
the interfuel substitution study and subsequently are expected to be addressed
under a proposed agriculture sector adjustment credit now under preparation.
The terms of reference for the National Energy Commission (NEC), which is to
be set up under the project, will also ensure that all activities regarding
the energy sector duly take into account the need to protect the environment.
The specific guidelines for operations and investments that will be part of
the MORP would include basic principles for protection of the environment in
sector activities. Failure to comply with the orocedures aareed upon in the
guidelines or modifications to the cuidelines without the IDA's apDroval would
be an event of detault under the opegation 12ara. 108 (iii) b).
99.         With respect to petroleum exploration, the Hydrocarbons Law
provides for the issuance by the Government of principles and standards to
regulate activities related to petroleum exploration and -- eventually -- to
exploitation of oil and gas, particularly with regard to environmental
protection. Although the standard contract for the bidding process of
petroleum exploration contracts, which has been prepared by the MNR with
assistance from an experienced Venezuelan petroleum company, includes a number



- 30 -
of clauses aimed at protecting the environment, the institutional process for
monitoring and avoiding any detrimental effect on the environment from such
exploration is not in place. Completing the Hydrocarbons Law's regulations in
this regard would mark a step forward towards a more comprehensivo approach to
environmental protection. These regulations should include procedures for:
(i) selecting the areas to be explored and the criteria to be applied when
such areas are reservations or ecologically fragile, national parks, forestry
reserves or inhabited by indians, (ii) performing environmental assessments,
and (iii) reviewing and approving programs presented by oil and gas
prospective explorers aimed at avoiding, minimizing and/or mitigating the
environmental impact expected to be potentially caused by petroleum
exploration activities. To this end, the proposed ESAP, within its technical
assistance component (para. 106) would finance the services of an expert in
petroleum environmental matters to assist the MNR in the preparation of the
required regulations. As a condition for release of the second tranche. the
Government would submit to the Bank satisfactory recqulations fWara. 108 (i)
hi. As a condition for release of the third tranche, the correspondinq
requlations would be enacted (ara. 108 (iil hi.
PART III - THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. BACKGROUND
100.        Preparation of the proposed operation was initiated late in 1988
under the previous administration in recognition of the importance of ENEE's
operations and finances within the economy. This effort was suspended when
the country entered non-accrual status in 1989. In a joint effort with the
IDB, project preparation was reatarted in early 1990, following the
introduction of the Callejas Government's macroeconomic reform program. The
project was appraised in January 1991. The proposed operation has been
formulated by IDA as a sector adjustment credit within the context of the
overall macroeconomic adjustment program given the major urgent policy changes
required in the sector and Honduras' balance of payments financing needs for
1991-92 (para. 28).
Bank GrouD Involvement in the Enerav Sector
101.     Between 1959 and 1980, the Bank and the Association have made,
respectively, eight loans and three credits amounting to US$235.6 million
equivalent to the electric power subsector of Honduras. The first four loans
and two credits helped to finance the Interim Power, Cafiaveral Hydroelectric,
Rio Lindo Hydroelectric and Fourth Power (Transmission/Distribution) projects
which were completed successfully despite some delays and cost overruns. The
fifth and sixth loans helped to finance an interconnection with Nicaragua and
the Rio Lindo 40 NW Extension, respectively, which were completed successfully
at or slightly below estimated cost but also with some delay in completion.
The seventh loan assisted in financing the Nispero Project needed to help meet
electric power demands while the El Caj6n Project was under construction. The
eighth loan and the third IDA credit, 1805-HO (US$105.0 million) and 989-HO
(US$20.0 million), helped finance the El Caj6n Project (292 MW) which is the
largest hydroelectric project in the country. This project was completed in



- 31 -
time (six months ahead of schedule) and with an acceptable cost overrun (10%)
but it resulted in prolonged excess capacity, and it contributed significantly
to Honduras' high debt service burden. Only at present, after several years
of operation, is El Cajon's capacity about to be fully utilized. Although the
Bank Group contribution to developing needed infrastructure hac been very
important, its operations have not been very successful in resolving the
institutional problems which still prevail in the sector. Thus, an important
component of the proposed operation will be helping the government to
construct a sounder legal/institutional framework, which is expected to
provide for a more solid basis for sector development (para. 62).
102.        In the petroleum subsector, the Bank made only one loan of US$2.8
million in 1980 which was implemented by the Ministry of Natural Rebources
through the General Directorate of Mines and Hydrocarbons. This loan
primarily helped finance the strengthening of the technical capacity of DGMH
in upstream and downstream petroleum activities and the promotion of
exploration areas to foreign oil companies. As a result of this loan,
adequate hydrocarbon regulations and an exploration/production model contract
were approved by the Government, data on potential petroleum prospects were
sold to several international oil companies, following promotional seminars
held in Houston, London and Tokyo, and the DGMH staff were trained in
accounting, administration and petroleum operations. The loan closing date
was not extended by the Bank beyond December 1985, however, due to the lack of
a genuine effort to attract experienced and financially viable oil companies.
The Government did sign contracts for exploration with three small companies
but these committed only small investments and lacked the experience of larger
independent and major oil companies. However, since March 1990 the Government
has shown a greater interest in attracting strong companies and has been
negotiating a new contract with Texaco, including large investments for the
exploration of offshore areas.
Rationale for the Prooosed Operat ion
103.        Since the energy sector is key to Honduras' economic development,
especially as the cost of petroleum imports and the payment of debt-service
obligations of the power subsector constitute a very heavy burden on the
country's fiscal and foreign currency resources, IDA and the IDB have joined
efforts with the Government and ENEE to design the ESAP, which will be an
important complement to the structural adjustment/stabilization program
supported under SAL II and the SAC. IDA financial and technical support will
help the Government establish a general energy policy framework and establish
appropriate regulations, help make ENEE a financially viable and autonomous
institution with strong management and operational systems, expose the supply
and distribution of petroleum products to market forces, promote private
sector participation and provide critical balance of payments support. The
proposed operation's policy content is significant, and disbursement in three
tranches will allow the Government adequate time to meet its policy
commitments in accordance with the proposed adjustment program. Fuirther Bank
group lending to the sector is not presently planned but may be considered
subject to macroeconomic priorities and satisfactory implementation of the
proposed operation.



- 32 
B. EROGRAM COST AND FINANCING
Adiustment Comnonent
104.        The propooed Energy Sector Adjustment credit of SDR 37.95 million
(US$50.6 million equivalent) to the Republic of Honduras is proposed for
disbursement (see para. 110) in three tranches, the first of SDR 1S million
(US$20 million equivalent), the second of SDR 11.25 million (USS$S million
equivalent) and the third tranche of SDR 11.25 million (US$15 million
equivalent). The second and third tranches are estimated to be released in
August 1992 and March 1993, respectively, after compliance with the tranche
release conditions spelled out in para. 108 and in the Policy Matrix (Annex
IV). The Government would make an equity contribution in local currency in an
amount equivalent to the credit (less the US$600,000 assigned for technical
assistance; see para. 106) as a contribution to the financial rehabilitation
of ENEE. Similar arrangements would be made under the adjustment portion of
the parallel IDB loan. These equity contributions are necessary for ENEE to
achieve the capital structure required under the FP.P, i.e., maximum
debt/equity ratio of 67/33 (see Annex VII).
105.        Cofinancing for the ESAP is expected from the IDB through a US$105
million hybrid loan (US$55 million adjustment, US$50 million investment), of
which US$46 million would be made on concessional terms which would be
allocated to the adjustment component of the operation. The latter would be
disbursed in parallel and on the same conditions as that of the proposed IDA
credit. The investment component would cover the foreign exchange needs of
the power sector investment program, including technical assistance; and
disbursement would be linked to the conditionality governing the IDA
operation, thus extending the period in which the international lending
organizations will monitor compliance with the policy undertakings under the
program. IDA and the IDB have been working in close collaboration in both the
design and preparation of the ESAP. The financing of the investments needed
to strengthen and improve ENEE's operational efficiency -- especially for
plant rehabilitation and distribution expansion -- would be supported by the
US$50 million investment portior of the IDS cofinancing operation. Actions
and programs supported under the proposed credit have been coordinated with
other donors  ;lermany, Canada) active in the power and petroleum subsectors.
Teghnical Assistance
106.         In support of the ESAP the proposed IDA credit includes a
technical assistance component with an estimated cost of US$600,000 which
would finances (i) the upstream petroleum specialist in contracto
administration and negotiation (US$250,000 - para. 91); (ii) experts to assist
the Government in carrying out the interfuel substitution study (US$200,000 -
para. S9)t (iii) the expert to assist in the regulatory aspects of the
liberalization of the petroleum industry (US$100,000 - para. 94); and (iv) the
expert to assist the MNR with the preparation of regulations for environmental
protection (US$50,000 - para. 99). The technical assistance component would
be disbursed over a two year period. The technical assistance for the MORP
(estimated cost US$2 million equivalent) would be financed under the
investment portion of the IDS loan (para. 71).



- 33 -
C.   CREDIT CONDITIONS
107.        Before presentation of the credit to the Executive Directors, in
addition to maintaining a supportive macroeconomic framework the Government
has taken the following major actionst
(a)      implemented average electricity tariff increases of 60% and 24.3% in
September 1990 and June 1991, respectively, and put in place a
program of monthly increases to align rates with LRMC by end 1992
(para. 86);
(b)      strengthened the institutional framework for the sector through the
creation of the NEC and the GTE (para. 57);
(c)      removed tariff setting authority for major public enterprises,
including ENEE, from the legislative branch and placed it in the
newly-created PURC which is to base rate decisions on cound economic
pricing criteria (para. 62);
(d)      developed and implemented a contract plan with ENEE, including the
establishment of performance and staffing reduction targets (para.
71);
(0)      agreed with ENEE on a electricity loss-reduction program which is
underway (para. 71);
-i=)     adopted agreed principles for selection of investment projects (para.
76);
(g)      prepared a financial rehabilitation program (FRP) for ENEE which
includes (i) payment of all electricity bills of GOH and its
agencies, beginning January 1, 1991, (ii) GOH contribution of equity
equivalent to IDA and IDB adjustment credit and loan, debt service
differentials and past unpaid electricity bills, and (iii) creation
of a clearing house mechanism for settlement of the electricity bills
of GOH and its agencies (para. 81);
(h)      prepared and initiated implementation of a Petroleum Liberalization
Program to deregulate the petroleum subsector (para. 94); and
(i)      initiated a program of technical assistance for (i) strengthening
ENEE's management and operations, (ii) carrying out an institutional
reform study of the power subsector, (iii) carrying out a study of
inter-fuel substitution, and (iv) assisting in the oil/gas
exploration bidding process and the petroleum deregulation program
(para. 95).



- 34 -
ffectiXeness and Tranche Releaee Conditions
108.          The first tranche of SOR 15 million (US$20 million equivalent)
would be disbursed upon credit effectiveness. Special conditions of
effectiveness include: (i) maintenance of a supportive macroeconomic framework
(para. 48); (ii) approval of legislation by the Honduran Congress modifying
the membership composition of the Public Utilities Regulatory Commission and
the issuance of satisfactory regulations (para. 62); and (iii) that all public
sector agencies are current in the payment of their electricity bills from
January 1st 1991 on (para. 83). The second and third tranches would require
compliance with the overall program for the sector. The specific, key policy
actions and targets set as conditions for tranche release are as follows:
(i)  Conditions for Release of Second Tranches
(a)      GOH to maintain a supportive macroeconomic framework (para. 48);
(b)      GOH to complete and furnish to IDA the interfuel substitution study
(para. 59);
(C)      GOH to issue and implement satisfactory guidelines for electricity
subsector, consistent with agreed pricing policy, and satisfactory
performance of PURC (para. 62) and NEC (para. 57);
(d)      GOH to hire consultants for the second phase of the institutional
reform study and present a satisfactory action plan to implement
before third tranche release institutional reforms recommended by
study (para. 62);
(e)      Satisfactory implementation of an action plan by GOH and ENEE to
improve operational and financial performance, which includes: (i)
implementation of the contract plan and achieving its targets (para.
63); (ii) completion of the diagnostic phase of MORP (para. 71);
(iii) achievement of efficiency and staffing targets (para. 71); (iv)
implementation of short-term measures to reduce electricity losses
(para. 72); (iv) submission of 1992 updated investment plan
consistent with adopted principles (para. 77); (v) achievement of
financial targets of the FRP (para. 81); and (vi) compliance with
plan to settle mutual arrears (para. 83);
(f)      GOH and ENEE to implement tariff adjustments as agreed (para. 86);
(g)      GOH to hire consultants for petroleum exploration and liberalization
process and satisfactory completion of first stage of PLP (paras. 91,
94-95, Annex VIII); and
(h)      GOH to submit satisfactory regulations for environmental protection
with respect to petroleum exploration (para. 99).
(ii)  g2nditinns for Release of the Third Tranche
(a)      GOH to maintain supportive macroeconomic framework and electricity
price subsidy program phased out (paras. 48 and 87);



- 35 -
(b)      GOH to submit satisfactory final version of interfuel
substitution study, including a satisfactory action plan to implement
the study's recommendations (para. S9).
(c)      Satisfactory performance of PURC (para. 62) and NEC (para. 57);
(d)      GOH to implement satisfactory institutional reforms (para. 62);
(e)      Satisfactory implementation of action plan by GOH and ENEE to improve
operational and financial performance, which includes: (i)
implementation of the contract plan and achieving its targets (para.
63); (ii) implementation of MORP (para. 71); (iii) achievement of
efficiency and staffing targets (para. 71); submission of 1993
updated investment plan consistent with adopted principles (para.
77); (iv) ENEE to achieve financial targets of the FRA (para. 81) and
(v) compliance with pIai to settle mutual arrears (para. 83);
(f)      GOH and ENEE to implement tariff adjustments as agreed (para. 86);
(g)      GOH to complete second stage of PLP, i.e., liberalization of oil
products at retail level (para. 95); and
(h)      GOH to enact environmental regulations with respect to petroleum
exploration (para. 99).
(iii) Events of Default
(a)      Adherence to a least-cost investment program for electric power
expansion, including the costs to mitigate any negative impact on the
environment and to take adequate consideration of the resettlement of
population affected (para. 76).
(b)      Failure to comply with the procedures agreed upon in the guidelines
for operations and investments or modifications to the guidelines
without the Bank's approval (para. 98)
D. PROCUREMENT. DISBURSEMENT AND AUDIT REPORTING
Procurement
109.        Up to the equivalent of US$5O.O million out of the total credit
proceeds would be used to finance the CIF cost of eligible imports by the
public and private sectors, subject to the standard negative list.
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines.
Contracts of the public and private sectors estimated to cost more than US$S
million equivalent will be procured through simplified ICB procedures.
Contracts of the private sector, valued at less than US$S million equivalent,
would be procured following established commercial practices, which have been
reviewed and found acceptable by IDA. Contracts of the public sector, valued
at less than US$S million equivalent, would be procured following Government
procurement practices acceptable to IDA and provided that contracts are
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder without taking into account the



- 36 -
financial costs for foreign exchange components. Consultant services included
under the technical assistance component would be procured following IDA's
guidelines for the use of consultants. Retroactive financing of up to US$1O
million (20% of the adjustment component) is recommended for eligible imports
made before the date of the agreement, but after May 15, 1991.
DisbursemntA
110.        Disbursements of each tranche would be made against import
documentation received from the Central Bank. The Central Bank will be
responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation and
for preparing and submitting withdrawal applications under the credit.
Disbursements against contracts valued less than US$l million equivalent would
be made on the basis of a Statement of Expenditures (SOE) to be submitted by
the Central Bank, with the detailed documentation retained by the Central Bank
for review by the Bank during program supervilsion. This procedure has been
successfully applied under SAL I, SAL II (for which audit reports have been
received) and the SAC. Full documentation would be required for the approval
of individual contracts exceeding US$1 million equivalent. The Central Bank
will carry out the screening process to ensure that all procurement conditions
have been met. Applications for withdrawals will be consolidated and
submitted in amouts not less than US$250,000 equivalent. Expenditures for:
(i) goods procured under individual contracts valued at less than US$10,000
equivalent (other than for the technical assistance component), and (ii) for
crude oil imports in amounts exceeding the equivalent of 25% of the Credit
amount, would not be eligible for financing under the credit. The technical
assistance component for the petroleum subsector would be disbursed over a
period of 24 months against consultant contracts. To allow adequate time for
the full implementation of the technical assistance component, and for the
policy actions required for third tranche release, the closing date would be
set for December 31, 1993.
Audit Reoortino
ill.        Audits of the supporting documentation for the project accounts
and SOEs used for disbursement will be carried out by independent auditors
acceptable to the IDA. The audit reports for the SOEs would be submitted to
the Bank not later than three months after each tranche release. Submission
of the audit report for the previous tranche release would be a condition of
disbursement of the following tranche.   The audit of the project accounts
would be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after the close of
the Borrower's fiscal year.
E. BENEFITS, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
Ntnef9tI
112.        The proposed operation in support of the Government's ESAP would
assist in alleviating the heavy financial burden of the electric power
subsector on the Government budget by making ENEE a financially viable entity,
capable of servicing its large debt. It would also address the constraints
posed by the country's sizeable oil import bill by promoting the development



- 37 -
of Honduras' oil and gas potential by the private sector. In addition, it
would achieve, for the first time in Honduras, the definition of a strategy
with well defined priorities for the energy sector while also establishing a
system of coordination among sector entities with clear lines of communication
and allocation of responsibilities, particularly regarding regulatory and
corporate matters. This would pave the way for improved performance and for
possible future participation of the private sector.
113.        The ESAP would aim at placing ENZE on a sound financial footing by
restructuring an important part of its capital and promoting debt structure
changes in line with its debt servicing capabilities. It would also help
improve the allocation of scarce financial resources through a selection of
projects based on economic analysis. Sector productivity would be increased
through efficient operation of existing installations, and improvement and
expansion of ENEE''s facilities. The economy, and an increasing share of the
population, would benefit from availability of least-cost and rellable
electric service. An insti-utional strengthening plan would streamline
systems and procedures of ENEE.
114.        The petroleum exploration promotion campaign is a long overdue
task with a good potential for success and significant economic benefits to
the country. If it results in attracting risk capital, and if petroleum is
found, the economic beneflts to the country could be very significant. The
liberalization of petroleum products would introduce competition--in a
presently overregulated sector of the economy--which would allow economic
savings resulting from the corresponding efficiency gains.
Risa
115.        The major risk facing the project would be the failure of ENEE to
achieve the targets established under the FRP because of continued Government
interference, or failure to set electricity rates at the required levels.
These risks arise because the targets set are ambitious and there is political
opposition to some of the measures proposed. Furthermore, some signs of
social unrest and the upcoming election cycle may place constraints on the
willingness of the Government to pursue some of the "unpopular" actions of the
program, particularly once the credit is fully disbursed. Another major risk
would be the possible opposition of ENEE's union to the proposed reforms and
any popular support it could rally which could cause the Government to depart
from its commitments under the program. An external risk outside the
Government's control relates to possible unfavorable exchange rate and
interest rate movements which would increase 1NEE's debt service burden. As
this operation is part of the Government's overall stabilization and
adjustment efforts, adjustment fatigue may weaken Government resolve to
continue with reforms ir. the power subsector. The Government's commitment to
the reform program evidenced by its initial actions and its recent handling of
these issues with the labor union suggest that these risks are manageable.
The three tranche disbursements would allow monitoring over a sufficiently
prolonged period of time, thus mitigating the risk of policy reversals.
116.        Regarding the petroleum subsector, there is little risk involved
in the two areas being addressed under the proposed operation. If petroleum
exploration is not successful, i.e., if no fields of economic value are found,
the new data gathered may still be a valuable input to the energy policy of



- 38 -
the country. Delays in the implementation of the petroleum trade
liberalization could take place due to the opposition of the vested interests
affected but the tranche release conditionality would provide adequate
leverage on this issue.
Environmental ImDact
117.        The proposed operation would address environmental concerns in
Honduras in several ways. In addition to the introduction of sound pricing
policies which would encourage energy conservation, the ESAP would include
clear safeguards for environment protection under detailed procedures and
plans of action for ENEE's investment planning along with strengthening ENEE's
institutional capacity to carry out environmental assessments. The electric
power investment program would include for each project the costs to mitigate
its impact on the environment. The proposed interfuel substitution study
would address concerns about deforestation caused by excessive use of fuelwood
and its findings would be incorporated in Honduras' national energy planning.
These efforts would be coordinated with support to be provided under a
proposed agriculture sector adjustment operation, which is addressing policy
issues related to fore :ry management and sustainable use of the country's
timber resources. In the petroleum subsector, the technical assistance
component would help to strengthen contractual safeguards with respect to oil
exploration activities.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
118.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve them.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
September 19, 1991



-39 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
1989 Pot Capita GMto UM s       900                       ...........Attaobsut la
Kid. 1989 Population (ULlU.)    5.0                                                                                      (PageI of 0*)
Actual                                        Pro.             Projected
A.  ational Aoccvmo.......t.............................                                        -     . ................
(&a % of current CoPl       1970   1975   1980   1984   1985   1988   1987  1966   198s   1990   1981   1993   1993   1995   1998
or*., D.msetic Product *.P.   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  200.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
sat Indirect Tmeo            10.1    9.8   10.6   10.9  12.0  10.9  11.6  11.6   11.3   11.8   11.8   11.8   11.8   11.8  L1.8
Agriculture (inc. mIning)    39.7   36.9   24.1   21.4  30.9  31.3  30.0  19.8  19,6   19.6  30.3  30.6   21.1   21.6   31.8
Industry                     18.5  20.2   20.6   21.3  20.0  30.3   19.7  30.5  30.6   19.7  19.9   19.7  19.7  19.6  19.6
Sarvices                     41.8   43.1  44.7  46.5  47.1  47.6  48.7  48.5  48.6  48.9  48.1   47.8  47.4  47.0   47.0
Resoqarco Oalancs,             4.3.  .9.0  .7.3  .6.8  -4.6  -1.4  .3.9  .2.7  .2.5  .5.8  .4.3    0.2    1.9    3.4    3.4
Zmport. of GUS               39. 350.7   37.1  26.5   25.8  26.6  23.9  26.8  33.6   40.5  46.6  46.1  45.8  46.9  48.5
Import. of GUS               35.7   39.7  44.3  33.1  30.4  28.0  28.8  39.5  36.1  46.3   51.0  43.9  44.0  43.5  44.9
Toatal Ispeudituf*o           106.5  109.0  107.3  106.8  104.6  101.4  10239  102.7  10.3.  105.6  104.2  99.8  98.1  96.6  96.6
Total Consumption            84.6   90.0   83.7   87.7  86.5  87.3  88.2  89.?  90.2   95.0   91.8   86.0    6.3  84.1  83.1
Private, ConsumptiLon      73.6   77.7  69.4   75.0  71.6  70.2  71.3  73.5  75.8   M8.    77.1  74.0  72.9   71.8   71.6
Pub3lc Consumption         12.0  12.4   15.5   14.7  14.9   17.1  16.9  16.4   14.4  14.6   14.7   18.0  13.5   13.6   11.3
Grose Dcometic Investment    21.9   19.0  24.5   19.0  18.0  14.3  14.7  13.0  13.3  12.8   13.4   11.8   11.9  12.5   13.5
fixed tnarstment           19.4   31.2  24.3   19.3  17.9  14.3  12.7  12.8  15.4   11,5  12.4   11.8   11.9   11.5  13.$
Changes in Steck.           2.5  .2.2    0.5  .0.2    0.3  .0.3    3.0   0.5  .1.1    1.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Or,, om eemotta Saving         15.4  10.0   17.3  12.5   15.5   12.8  11.8  10.5    9.8    7.0    8.3   13.0   13.8   15.9   16.4
net Factor Inomfe            -3.3  .3.6  .6.0  .5.5  .5.4  .6.7  .5.8  .6.6  .7.5  .10.1  .11.7  .10.7  .9.4  .7.5   -5 5
Net Current Tranefrer         0.4    0.4    0.5    0.3    0.4    0.5   0.4   0.5    0.6    1.0    1.1    1.0    0.9    0.9    0.8
Or.s. National Saving          12.5    7.8   11.5    7.1    8.4    6.5   6.5   4.3    3.9  .3.1   -.3.    3.4    5.3    9.3   12.Z
Actual                                        pro              Projecte
S. National A0count. Growth...------------------------------                                     ..     .......- -.........
(Constant Prices)          70.75  75.80   1980   1984   1985   1986   1967   1988   1989   1990   1991   1993   199)   1995   1998
Gros. Domeetic Product n.p.     3.7    7.3    1.5    3.8    3.5    3.8   5.3    5.3    3.3  -1.0    1.5    3.3    5.8    4.0   4..
Net Indirect Teose            5.1    9.0  22.7    9.8  114.1  .5.6   10.3   6.9    1.6    1.6    1.5    3.2    5.6    4.0    4.8
Agriculture                   0.0    6.1  .1.7    2.0    2.9   1.7   2.7   1.7   3.8  .1.2   4.5    5.5    6.0    4.0    8.8
Indaztry                      6.4    8.1  .6.1    5.4  .1.3   6.4    3.0   7.3   3.1  -4.0   23.    23.    3.5    4.0    4.6
Services                      5.4    7.5    3.7    0.4    3.6    4.3   8.5   5.8    3.4  .0.5  .0.1    2.5    3.0    4.0    4.8
Import. of GMS                5.3    6.4  .5.3    1.6    3.7    4.4   0.3   3.6   6.8   -1.1    7.7    8.1    7.8    5.9    4.7
Imports of GUS                1.0   10.0    5.6   16.8   0.4  .1.7    2.6   1.5   0.4  .5.1    0.8    2.1    3.4    4.4    5.3
Ttoal Zspenditurea              2.8    8.7    4.8    7.9   3.7    0.6    6.3   4.5    0.6  -1.6  .0.4    1.4    2.4    3.5    4.9
Total Consumption             3.3    7.7    8.3    1.5   3.7   4.7   5.9   6.5    1.4  32.6  .0.3    1.6    2.1    3.9    4.?
Private Consumption         3.1    7.5    7.9    1.1    3.5    1.8   6.6   7.1    1.2  .1.8    0.7    2.6    2.7    3.3    5.2
Public Consumption          4.5    8.7   10.3   3.7    5.3   19.3   3.1   5.8    2.1  .4.0  .4.0  .3.0  .1.0    0.5    1.5
rog.o Dogeeutvic veatriant    1.1   12.3  -A.9   41.1  .0.7  .15.3    7.5  .4.9  .5.1    5.6  .2.1   .1.3    4.7    7.3    6.4
Iliad Investmet             5.6    9.7    9.9   19.8  -3.7  .13.6  .8.6    6.2    4.3  .11.2    8.5  .1.3    4.7    7.2    8.4
Capacity to Import             .0.1   11.7  .5.9    5.6    7.3  10.0  .3.8   0.7    3.2  .16.9  .6.3   16.5    5.0    4.1    5.8
Tows of Tred" Adjuatmant       17.6  .19.0  .20.5  .10.3  .13.1  -19.0  22.9  16.5  10.1  658.6   71.4  .12.8   17.3  10.2    8.8
Grose Domestic Income           2.6    9.1    2.0    4.2    5.1    4.5   4.1   4.4    1.7   S.3.  2.2.    4.7    2.8    3.)    4.8
gross National Incom.           2.8    8.4    1.5    4.0    4.7   3.7   5.5   3.8    1.9  .10.3  .8.0    5.8    3.6    5.1    8.0
Gross National ftoduat(..CT)    4.0    6.6    0.7    2.5    3.1    1.1   6.5   4.7    2.i.  -5.6  -3.5    2.1    4.8    5.7    6.1
Graeog.   estic Saving          7.0    1.9  .18.9    7.6   3.1  .4.1    2.2  .0.2   10.4   13.1  13.8  13.1   15.7    9.2    5.4
let Pooter Incom             .8.5   32.3   15.4    8.2  12.7  34.3  .13.8  23.6  22.1  53.7  37.7    8.8  .1.0   3.5.    .4.8
got Curvent TreaswUms;                .    .5.8    3.9  16.5   1.1  20.4   4.5  40.3   81.1  50.7   11.3    6.4    3.1    0.4
areas 11ationa Saving           9.6  .3.8  .25.4    7.4    0.7  .15.6  10.1  .5.3  .6.3  .67.3 .34.5  .35.8 .326.9   73.9   17.4
....................................................................



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
EWD3     - 1Art AL A=o    s COoumIUL4)
................... ..............._ ...........                                    Aetacbloel la
(Pegz a of 3)
~~~~~~~~~........................ ..........................................* .^,,_, . 
MtuaJ.                                  G~~~~~~~~~rowt latc., 2 p...
C. Price tAdicme (1980-100).               1980     190      Ids8      987     is9       198      1990              70.-3    7340    60.63    83.90
............ ...........................--. ..............  .............. -............................................. swvz*z*"***z..... .......  ..... ......    .....    .........
Coenimer Prices (as 44)                   100.0    139.7    143.8    149.4    s3.$    171.e    Stll1                   6.4      9.6       6.9      e.6
S asatt GaP 0e5akr                        100.0    130,2    137.3    1)9.7    146.1    136J.    IU.2                   6.3      9.7       3.4      7.6
:apUSit beV44twe. 0ehltor                 100.0    14.8    142.2   1S0.0   138.1   66.9    178.1                      7.7      8.0       6.3      5.3
0. Other tdiateor               70-87     1$s80    80-88    88.93    93-96                                            1970     1973      1960     986
.................... -          .....    .....l   .....                                        s       of Labor ....           ....      .... .. Labo
popatse  (1us o9v)              3.9       2.9      3.9      2.0       2.8                    .........
Labor word                      2.6       2.8      3.6        *        -                       4riuJtuto            $3.32    00.01    SS.61      1.S2
Gross Nat'l. tKeco p.e.         0.3      *4.4      0.3      3.5    -.2.                        Indidutr             13.42    14.91    7.02    7.92
Private CoeoMptig  p.s.         0.1      .3.6      0.0     .0.7       0.9                      Sewices              23.12    3S.2n    37.32    28.42
%apart U"3. tyo                                                                                  TOtW                100.02   100.02   100.02   100.0:
Iwmot. (GElS) I GOP(Op)         0.)       1.4    .0.6       0.4       1.1
wSrsival Sawins Rat*e.
a0s wit. 3my                   30.7       4.7    .0.2      62.3      47.2
as6  ct. GM                    43.8      13.0     14.6    01.4      33.7
IGOR ( g                          1.0       6.3     .1.6       1.7      3.0
.............................................................................................................................. *s**o*ww**X*=vw*^*   
Actual                                        Pro.                    Projected
S. Nationsl Aacount    .      .    .     .    .     .    .    .     .............................. ..         ....................
(l980 an. Leapt:.)            980     1984      1983s    t"        1987    1188    199s   lo9          199s      1992     1993      993     996
-... . ....     ..            .............................................. ............ ....................._._.__............ __.___.....___.. _._...___._..._____....._. _
aCoom   omettio  roduct u.p.    3,088    3,194    3.378    3.328    3,813    6,114    0,333    6,192    6,283    6,486    6,73)    7816e    6,3.9
Not to4troat Tame               339       364      646      610       673      718       729      74       752      776       05       871      992
Asrlctgrs                     1,226    1.296    1,334    1,356    1,393    1.417    1,4346   1,439    1504    1.386    1,082 6U        ,86     2.12
Induts,                       1,047    1,064    1,os1   1,118    1.133    1,230    1,262    1,21    1.241    1,372    1.317    1,418    1.613
(Of  htok VAnfctUtUn8)          687      738       735      747   U 22         89 So l                     .         ..
Sogy.e.                       3,274   2,267    2.347    2,444    2,397    2,744    2,807    2,601    2.78e    2,632    2.929    3,13          3,366
Sbmace  *alane                   (370)      (77)     (33)     8e         17       0o       2IS      233      410       361      697       900    1,016
Iwost  03 18n                 1,680    1.893    1,945    3,030    2,033    2,109    2,232    2,328    2,398    2,393    3,796    3,171    3.661
Importa @ ORs 2,236    1,972    1,980    1,947    1,999    2.029    2,037    1,973    1,989    3,0s0    2,099    2,270    2.624
Total MapoAtWtures              3,438    3,271    3,413    5,443    3,778    0,034    6,040    3,938    3,873    S,933    6,030    6,382    7.213
total Ccaamp:tio              4,210    4,201    4,330    4,346    4,011    3.113    3,108    3,017    4,973    5,033    3,104    3.320    5.960
Private Cosuaptten          3,532    1,497    3,609    3.661    3,899    4,168    4,201    4,108    4,101    4,178    4,1258    4,477   53075
eoeral Goveores               678       704      742      86S       912      947       947      909      872       833      840       831      8s5
aroea Domesti c veetent    1,240    1.070    1,0062          900     907       919       872      921       903      $90      932    1.034    1,294
is"  Zuetuent               1,233    1,8       1,033      90g       849      902       940      633      904       692      934    1,037    1.301
Cbhange in Stock.              1       (12)      0        (9)     11        6s       (08)      80        (2)      (2)      (3)       (2)      (3)
Capacty t  S'tport              1,886    1.368    1,664    1,851    1.783    1,794    1,89m    1,726    1,u23    2,040    2,.18    2,448    2.823
Toaw of Trade, Ajustemt            Rh      (327)    (202)    (179)    (254)    (315)    (357)    (302)    (573)    (333)    (608)    (722)    (838)
Gross OWSe1c tn..                  N3    4,867    3,116    3,33o   3S.61    3eo00   3,69s   3,691    5.712    3.933    6,123    6,360    7,436
tmes Mat tal tacom                 34    43059    4.780    4,699    3,173    3,338    3,339    4,867    4,576    4,700    4,90s    3.421    6,304
are" Uatou     Product          4,781    4,896    $,0042    3,078    3,46    3,673    3,710        ,19      5.131    3,352   3,311    6,143    736Z2
Grose Destc  savin                 VA       060      766       604      730      0         731      674       7s9      9o0    1,021    1,213    1,494
let Factor l                   (207)    (398)    (336)    (431)    (209)    (442)    (539)    (824)  (1,134)  (124)  (1,222)  (1,130)    (932)
net Cuuet troafere               Is        16       s 19              32       as        33       s9        78       6S       93        99       103
rove National SUg                    4      384      446       373      3S4       206      334       (90)    (118)    (247)    (109)      192       647
-. ....... . .            . . . . ..............................................................................................................



- 41-
AMNEX I
Page 3 of 7
EOUOU$ * ZITUSAL 'I*D
.........................                            ~~~~Attachment lb
A. Volume  Value end Price.    190          16        95       18        97       16        99       19        91       1d         993     195       19
MarchniaIor
~~~~~~~~.......................Volume Lode: 1960.100 ..........................
Beneua                ~~~~~~100.0  86.9    9841    69.7    204.2        98.8     94.9      90.6     97.1    10.86    114.9    128.        147.3
~~oif.o  ~~~~~100.0    119.5    120.0    140.0    153J.4    133.5    150.2    266.4    305.                  219.4    239.1    175.7    309.4
Supt                  ~~~~~~ ~~A0.0    110.0    148.4  77.5    117.3    84.5    23.5       31.4     52.0      32.7      33.4     34.9      3.3
SeeS                  ~~~~~~~144-1  33.3   30.2      38.0     33.8      34.8     30.3,    42.5      45.3      48.7      52.1     58.0      84.6
Limber                         100.0     65.9      79.2      61.7     64.5     67.1      53.8      32.1     31.1      33.3     33.6      38.4      40.9
Shrim  B Lobster               100.0    120.5    106.1,   105.       137.5    166.6    165.4    1065.      194.9    206.5    224.1    351.6    267.4
Total "eoTl. import. FOB       100.0     93.3      97.2    105.4    108.5    105.5    109.9    209.5    117.9    127.7    137.6    156.3    180.2
........................Value-COurrent Psi... CtUioU1    ) .....................
Beamee                           226      232       274       257      322       345      343       368      368       414      446       50        612
Gott"                            104       169      185       322      So0       192      191       184      228       353       36       388       562
614cr                             29       28        21        13       19        14       10        13        LI       17        17       14        la
DoeS                              61        21       18        20       23        20       19        27        28       30        35       43        56
Ulibos                            id        35       34        32       53        30       25        17       It        24        25       29        38
Other imports                    392      254       257       148      247       291      376       357      377       418       461      577       789
Total isreb. Izports 10          $50       737      M9        691      844       693      987       943    1.034    1.156    1.272    1.558    2.0S'
Vercanodi.o Isparts........................tolume India 1980.100 ..........................
Kmn krable Comnsmer Goods   100.0        87.1    108.2       87.2    103.3     97.3      66.5      88.7     69.3      91.1     93.8      99.7    1.3 
Diurblo Couumer Goode          100.0     83.6      77.3      66.I     94.2     90.9    138.0    119.8    121.6    125.5    130.2    141.4    163..
P.trolem  and Lubricant.       100.0     92.6      83.5      63.2     56.0      70.6     75.1      68.0     69.0      71.1      73.9     79.9      91.8
Intemasditet end Othero        100.0     90.8      90.3     97.6      95.3     98.7      97.6      95.1     96.8      99.9.  102.9    110.0    126..
Capital Goods                  100.0     59.1      57.5      55.1     71.7     66.4      67.3      67.3     65.9      65.0      67.6     76.3      92 3
Total iogeb.  mport. CIF       100.0     81.8      87.7      88.8     98.0      9.8.     99.1      96.4     97.1      99.0    102.3    110.8    12615
........................VaIAa.Curwent Priceas (ut(iUn S).....................
Non Durable Conasmer Goods       1)3       129      141       iSI      14*       184      156       241       255      245       27       322       '.*
Durable Conasmor 00.4.            63        70       66        63       67        61       92        68       91        96       lot      120       1$6
Pocrolowm anA lAbrteanta         171       1S0      15         97      11s       117      145       159       183      142       157      192       III
tnte,mutdat and Otbers           340      384       379       417      405       420      440       385      411       432       454      522       484
CapiLtal Goo"e                   262       171      161       173      208       215      215       227      234       235       249      308       '.4
Tota N.i.b. Import. C11        1,019      033       928       gas      959       996    1.047    1.097    1.154    1,169    1.239    1,488    1.9!.
Coenvrsico  motor ChUGTS        1.07      1.05     1.06      1.05     1.11      1.11     1.11      1.11 I 1.11        1.11      1.11     1.11      1...
Teros of Trade Indies       ........................              .     .    Price tndices t19$0,140).........................
Neobaudilse importe            100.0     92.9      95.6    101.4      93.2    101.7    103.4    101.5    103.2    104.5    108.8    117.1    114..
borehmAndi   Imorts            160.0    112.      103.9    104.5      96.0      98.8    103.6    111.7    116.6    113.9    116.8    130.1    149 
N.robsnd.oa Teome of Tea"e   200.0       85.0      92.1      97.0     97.1    102.9      99.8      90.9     88.5      91.9      91.4     90.0      89.8
3.A.Sof Total tourroat priced                                   C.Growth 1kat"  M(2(euetaxt prices)
Mear.bandisa  zqorts               90       17       1960      19---     1988    . 19,93 .. ;;; 1996          70.75        7....0 ; 0...8 88.93 9---.48
.......q.q.... .         .......... . ......................... . . .    ....
Sam*n                           41.1      19.9     16.8      31.5     36.7      35.1     29.8              .13.2      18.9      .0.2      3.1       5..
cat"e                           14.1      10.4     24.0      22.9     21.5      21.6     37.4                13.8      3.2       3.7     11.4       S.]
usqe                             0.7       3.2      3.4       3.5      1.6       1.3      0.9                 0.5     52.2      .2.1    .16.9       2.2
lesS                             5 5.      5.9      7.1       2.9      1.3       2.8      2.7                 6.3     11.3    .12.4       6.4       4.'
L..iber                          8.8      12.4      4.3       4.7      3.3       2.0      1.8                 4.3    .10.0      .4.9    .12.9       4.0
Otber import                    30.1     4.2.      34.3      54.5     31.6      38.1     37.4                  ..       c         .1      5.4       S.&
Total marnh. 9worto 10         100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                    2.3      6.7       0.4      5.9       .5.
V.rbedisuo Impnoa
Non Dareblb Ceummer Good    15.2          15.4     15.2      13.8     18.4      22.4     21.2,                3.0     10.6      .0.3     .0.8       3.9
affable Coasimer good.          15.$       6.6      8.1       7.5      6.1       0.2      8.0               .8.0      16.3      .1.2      7.5       4.6
Petrtolem ad Leabrioanto         6.7      16.0     16.8      19.2     11.7      12.7     14.3               .2.0      .3.3      .4.2      0.9       4.'
Itsueed.te S"6 others           37.5     35.9      34.2      41.2     42.3      38.6     35.1                .0.4     13.2      .0.2      0.6       4.2
Csoapi   Goods                  25.1      24.1     35.?      18.3     21.6      20.1     21.8                 5.7     11.1      .4.6     .0.2       6.'f
Total  arcoh. reports 021      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                    0.5     10.4      .0.1      0.7       4.7
.       ..-.........................................................



-42 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
unou*s - 8*18A32 of 1ADOWS
(q64 MUOO,a)                                                     Attachean: IC
5*ALA3C2 CT PAUTS                 18        94      14        96       16        98       14        90      19        1992     1993      1995     1996
- .                                            .a.        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-W ..   .        .. .  . .................
A.  Saporta .2 0.o   &  1    4         4        0       .009      97      it01     S.9      a.7       1.1      1.319    1.430    1.77      3.344
1. VoatcbwA1e.  (10)            850      737       790      691      644       693      967       043    1.034    10136    1.272    1.556    2.054
2. I.a.1ratce  6erviteo          91       110      116      116       126      126       120      lit      131       163      176      219       290
5.   laproit of Good* 4 31      1.137    1.066    1,063    3.062    I.0m       1.122    1.176    1.226    1.291    1.313    1.391    1.646    2.179
a. war.bandi.e (10)             934      66"       679      874       894      901      947       993    1.043    1,034    1.121    14329    1. 766
3. Itu-lac:ow  9ezvitta         173       181      164      16        194      221      219      2U3       244       235      270       317      411
C.  Reasons. lelam.              (183)    (210)    (15O)       (53)    (114)    (103)      (42)    (131      (106)       6       39       Lis      i6S
0.   3.: Factor Imam.            (132)    (174)    (too)    (233)    (338)    (331)    (243)    (264)    (297)    (303)    (296)    (245)    (263)
1. FactorReceipts                26        16       13       13        12       10        IL        a       13        Is       18        21       26
2. Ntacta  payamet.             178       194      203      266       33       261       354      276      310       320      316       306      291
(lnerta.t psymants) Il       120      114       151      147      174       169      179       204      234      243       237      230       194
S.   Bet Cu,rrent Taa.toea          a        10       12        13       16        18       20       26        27       26       30        33       36
V.   Cwrant Mecant 3.1...   (3390)    (347)    (337)    (292)    (340)    (337)    (306)    (396)    (376)    (270)    (209)    (123)               (63),
0.  Lamg-Taws Capital tuLl.    372          331      333       176      194      327       293      394       313      306      232       144        71
1. Directav.twste                 6       20        26       30        SO       44        1        44       45        43       44       40        CO
2. 0223.14  Capital Girant.      16        70      133      145       115      116,       53      10        SI        70       70        70       To
3. Bet LT I..aus                35,       146      265      112        61      104       (41)     139      130       190      Ito        47      (26)
a. Disbar anuo343                     270       347      217       230      307       153      367      374       413      327       276      205
b. Lepaymanta                 47        44       82       105      1S9      203       194      238      243       235      218       229      233
4: 0th.. LT W1u3     21          (6)       53      (73)    (111)      (41)      57      230         4      106         1        8       (13)     CII)
B.  Tetal Otber Itme  (set)       (30)       37       (3)      139      194       59       (12)     (15)       13        4       14        26        37
1.Nst Short TOMaCapi:Lts         30       47        (0)      96       151        0        0        t0       12         4       14        26       37
S. CAP                           29        14       (a)       0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0
3. gzvnands4omaission           (60)      (33)       6       31        43       5t       (12)     (33)       0         0        0         0        0
.Chang  in Bet lasewtaa          78       to       (14)     (13)     (44)      (49)      is        17       (9)     (39)      (36)      (47)     (45)
to sad14.ta. Imn.ras.)
1. not credit Iran               15      (11)       (2)     (35)      (30)     (36)       (0)      19       11         a       (3)      (18)       a
Shares of or? (~taate 05$)
L. hfa.ac. Salesae               -7.31    d.4.6     .6.32    .1.42    .2.91    -2. 71    -2.32    -3.42    -4.21       0.22     1.91      3.41     3.42
S. 42A  ntertest payumet.         3.31      2.7%     2.92     3.02      241x    3.41       1.41     6.81     4.21      7.6:     6.72      3.21     3.51
3. Carrent Aecamt 3Sa.on"       .13.01   .12.01    .9.61    .7.7n      s.4.4    s.4.9     -9.42   -15.02   -14.91    .9.31    4.616   -3.32    .1.31
4. &* Capital. lufla  (lIne 0    10.71    10.31    10.11      4.62      4.61     4.62      9.01    14.91    14.61    10.72      7.31      3.82      1.S?
S. get Credit Eras te Um          0.61    -0.32    -0. 12    -.0.9     -0.72    .1.02    .0.02      0. 72     0.42     0.Z    .0. 12    .0.31      0.01
90180rugn bha Rs. hewaea
1. Int'l. beer... (US5 114)   149.8    124.2    105.6    111.3    106.0         50.0      21.1      4.5      13.5     52.6     68.9    178.4    193.5
2. 0.3* (Md.yT Leadom Price       9.4       4.9      3.2      6.3       7.4      6.6       6.4      6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0
3. Gross 2eeegye                139.3    133.1    111.0    117.6    113.4       36.6      37.3     10.3      19.3     58.6     94.9    164.4    299.1
4. Not Us.. to Esatbe lapon        1.6      1.4      1.2       1.3      1.2      0.3       0.2      0.0       0.1      0.5      0.6       1.3       1.6
gobs... ut..  408)
1. 100. off. S-lAte               2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.4       3.0      4.4      3.8       6.2      6.4       6.8      6.9
2. 3*4s 3f. %-Zate (1940.10   100.0    133.0    138.0    130.0    123.1    124.2    130.3    193.0    216.3    301.3    192.4    169.5    190.2
S. 2-let. tor @3? C.mnvrie        3.0       3.0      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      4.4       5.8      6.3      6.4       6.8      6.9
Memrandim Ie
GMP (VS$ 16111..                2.344    3,331    3.504    3.79       4,064    3.803    3.261    2.650    2.532    3.859    3.163    3.716    6.830
-......         ...     ... ...-------    -- -----------.................                                                ..........
Il On seomael baai. (1a.indea 21 arear.)
31 naIdee re*asinenn   debt sevc  emrr.:  and unidentifted soura...



-43 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
60D002S - 5TUNI  CAPITAL 32  DEST
...................................Attach.ut 14
(M3  KtULOaOO)                                                        (Page I of 2)
Actual                                           Pro.                      Proj.cotd
.... ;;; ... ;;; ....;;; .... ;;  *....     ;;...  ; ---;;... ;  -----
A. DleWtseumota                      90       18         95       196       8         96       1          1990      191       192o9s19s9
-~~~~....                        ..w                 ..:;;..   ;                     ...;..  .              ..~:  ---
1. PUb1*A &  . UaT. LI       16.         61       3.6    199.1    2             t.0 2o.   13.8      16.      62:.2   410.7         30.6    2t.3       18.
Official Creditorm           135.9    146.6    284.3    155.9    211.0    278.4    116.3    361.7    421.3    407.2    328.3    249.3                  179.0
Mat1.1ateraL                M1.?    160.0    180.5        78.1 I     35.0    133.        53.1    180.6    247.5    304.0    220.4    196. 1    113.1
Of .biob 23R             24.4       80.3      44.7      32.       25. 1     53.5       1.8      82.0      42.0       39.4      11.8       4.7       1.3
of which 18A              17.7       1.1       0.7       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      48.0    184.6        66.S      75.5       3.0
Bilateral Al                43.2      65.8    125.8       77.6    156.0    144.9        63.4    181,1    173.8    105.2    108.0           53.4      65.9
ftiwat. Creditors            108.0      19.6      51.5      43.2       25.0      11.5      16.)       5.4       4.9       3.5       2.1       8.8        9.8
8upU.za                     60.1       5.8       7.1      11.4      21.6        3.0      14.0       5.4       4.9       3.5       2.1       i.#       9.8
Pinsactal Market.           47.8      13.0      44.1       11.8       2.4       8.5       2.3       9.0       0.0       0.0       0.8       0.0       0.0
2.Privat. Uau..Quar. LT           81.5       3.5      11.9       17.5      14.2      17.4      20.1       0.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0
3.Total LT Dtabur..am.ut          345.2    269.7    341.5    216.6    250.2    307.3    152.9    367.1    43*4                413.7    335.4    263.5    195.8
4. UN purcbaaea                     29.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      29.7       12.9       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
5. lot ftart-Term Capital             ..        .          .         .          .        .          .      10.0      11.8       4.0      14.0      26.2      36.8
6. Total tool. UN  x Set ST    374.3    269.7'   347.5    216.6    250.2    307.3    152.9    406.9    455.9    419.7    349.4    289.4    230.6
8. pa,m.ata
1. PublIc 8 MQast. LT              39.1      47.4       66.9      76.2    145.0    150.0        67.7    212.6    230.4    213.2    206.7    222.2    229.8
otfficl Creditor"             22.6      32.4      54.5       56.6      89.0    131.1       63.7    187.1    198.6    168.9    191.0    210.0    217.2
*49ttlsteoul 21             20.3      24.6      35.1       39.9      42.3      65.0      22.8      93.6    106.7    111.5    118.7    122.9    142.2
of ublob 183               4.1      10.8      12.5      21.0      25,4      35.8       0.1      39.6       41.0      42.4      47.4      55.5      50.2
of Vbich 288               0.2       0.5       0.6       0.7       0.7       0.9       0.0        1.1       1.4       1.4       1.4       1.6       2.0
StlAtrL. It                  2.3       7.8      19.4      18.9       46.7     66.1       40.9      93.5      92.1      76.4      72.3      87.0       74.9
Pricate Creditors             16.5      15.0       12.4      17,4      56.0      16.9       4.0      25.5      31.6      24.3       15.7      12.1      12.6
SWUppSr  II                  3.1       9.4       6.0        7.6       7.2       6.3       3.0      15.5      19.3      18.0      10.0        7.2       8.9
Flusalscl Markets 2/        13.4       5.6       6.4       9.8       48.8      12.6       1.0      10.0      12.1       6.3       5.7       5.0        3.1
2. PrIvate Ron.Ouar. LT            44.3       36.1      15.3      18.8      24.3      26.0       7.8      15.0       13.0      12.0      11.0       6.8       3.3
3. lowa  LT Iapayfa,o               67.4      83.5      81.2    105.0      169.3    176.0       73.5    227.6    243.4    225.2    217.7    229.0    233.1
4. fl  Sprchaes"e                    0.0       1.6      19.0      51.8      46.0      36.4       0.4       10.6       2.0       0.0       3.0      16.4       0.0
C. atuerast
1. Public I P.Quar. LT              56.5      78.0      92.8    107.3       87.5    111.9       42.5    173.2    203.2    212.6    208.6    193.4    168.7
OffIcIl C:e4itor.             31.2      50.8      62.3       66.1      73.5    109.5       36.5    158.7    18210    187.3    185.4    173.0    150.8
lblsi2Ate.l 21              24.4      35.3      45.9       66.6      60.6      85.3      21.5    102.9    109.2    112.4    110.6    103.6            90.1
of wbIcbIlBD12.4                    20.9      21.9      35.2      33.5      44.2        0.8     45.6       48.2      48.0      46.2      56.1      23.6
of ubleb 204               0.4       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.0       0.5        0.9       1.5       2.1       3.3       3.8
BU*tlat.l I I                6.8      15.5      16.4       19.5      12.9      24.2      17.0      55.8      72.)      74.8      74.8      69.2      60.8
Private coredton              27.3      27.2      30.5       21.2      14.0      12.4       4.0      16.3      11lt      25.3      23.2       20.3      17.9
suppliers 21                 1.7       5.2       6,6        .86       3.5       3.3       1.3       9.4       7.9       6.5       5.5       4.5        4.7
llaaoi"J  Mavtbet  It       25.6      22.0      23.9      1.4.4      10.3       9.1       2.7       7.       13.2      16.6      17.7      15.8       13.3
2. Private Sum-D"a'. LT             24.6      10.2       7.9       6.6       6.2       6.6        1.3       5.0       5.3       4.7       3.1       2.9       2.4
3. Total LT Tater**%                65.1      88.      100.7    113.9       93.7    128.7       45.7    180.2    206.4    117.3    211.7    196.3    171.1
4. VW Segyice Charge*                0.7      11.1      10.8       9.71       5.5      4.3        0.3       4.3       6.1       6.3       6.5       1.7      (0.0)
S. batereat Paid an ST Debt         36.4      13.0      16.0       18.0      271.0     25.0     23.0       19.1      19.3      18.6      16.5      19.6       23.2
6. TOWa  tool. 3M  & let ST        120.2    111.3    127.5    141.6    126.2    156.0           69.0    203.6    233.6    242.6    236. 7    219.8    194.3
    ---.        .    ... ..     ...........................     .......   ...............-....
&I Zoolujee reecbe&Aalio, cofaaocis sud uasideuglts*4ed 6aei
21 2.03*4.., r**Qbe441.s



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
052020  * UII        CAPITAL UD D8T
...................................AtUabiment Id
(Me, KII.oO)                                                     (Pago 2 of 2)
............................ I. ............................ . .... .s ............................ . .... .. ..... . ..,._
Lotul                                        Pro.                     Projoot*d
...~~~~~~; .. ..._ . II .    ...................... ..    .....         ........................  .........................................
D. xtonl Dbt (M0)                1980      198      1983     1986      I9s6     18        1989     1990     1991      1992     1993      1995     18
,. .**t*"t . .......... ., ...   ,., ...... ,,............................................................................................................
1. A-bIl4 * UP.Q4r. Lt            970    1,774    2.140    2.378    3,701    2,155    2,823    3.126    3,464    3.062    3.784    3,894    3,793
Offtcal Creditors            700    1,3S7    1.672    1*863    2.189    2.277    2.387    2.690    2.961    3.160    3.317    3.450    3SI72
Wtuataral 21               457      654    1,044    II19$    1,51    1,369    1,471    1,530    1,642    1.654    1,953    2,sel          2,079
ef oUbc  taw             152      273       389      465      575       558      528      558       51s      515       40       386       241
of vob IDA                64       8         8I       81       so        79       79       7I       14S      240       313      464       490
Bilateral Il               243      502       626      670      636       906      896    1.160    1.299    1.326    1 62    1,333    1.293
mvate Crediton               274      417       468      51S       512      479      457       437      503       082      469      444       421
Suppier. a/                 0o       9o       lo0      130       15J      147       IS?      147      1I5       142      IS4       125      2*
li-16a Kagwte It           194      321       368      365       3S0      351      500       20o      347       340      35       3109      298
S. Ptivate Woo-Go.. LT            191       162      141       12       115      1t00        4        9       61        54       48        41       44
3. Tetal Lit-Tem 0DQ            1.16S    1,396    2.2    2,305    2l616    2.655    2907    3.195    3.35    3,716    3,634    S3S    3.638
4. sW  Crdt                        is       1s5      147       110       77       37        s9      s5        t9        49       66        30       is
5. Short-ftms Debt                572       167      259      310       176      317       250      221      252       256      25o       296      392
6. Tetal.      DQ. bwO set of    1,470    2,352    2,086    2,827    3,089    3,o09    3,178    3,474    3,827    4.021    4,150    4,261 4.       SIM
7. *AaaAated4  &g"ea              G.A.   149.7    197.0    221.4    343.4    030.4    741.8    445.0         0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
A. lutereet                     u.s.    12.7      15.7     20.7      72.7    126.7    213.4    137.        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.1
U. llrtztioun                   n.    137.0    181.7    200.7    270.7    303.7    528.4    307.2          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
bare of Publio LT D0D
1. Os Coteleveil Tls             35.82    43.92    41.53    40.8S    40.32    42.62    02.42         ..       ..        ..       .         .        -.
2. WIth Varible %ot. 3st.@       21.52    17.82    18.02    18.12    18.22    18.62    19.52          .        ..       ..       ..        ..        ..
E. Bach god IDA Ratio.
... --... -.............
1.259 to total LT o0             13.12    14.12    16.21    18.62    20.01    18.62    16.12    17.52    14.n         13.92    12.52      9.6s     6.31
3.0M  to total LT W0              5.52      4.22     3.61      5.22     2.82     2.82      2.n      2.42     4.1?      6.7n     6.22    11.6O    13.I2
4.129 to total LSDS               9.73    18.52    26.12    25.72    22.40    26.32        0.n     21.02    19.S      20.41    21.82    22.02    18.3t
s.an   to total LT  $                  0.6: o.S2     o.n       0.62     O.3S     O.3S      0.0     0.42      0.52     o.n      0.62      1.12      I.%?
F. 00.-to.Zpots 088
... .. _.......
1. log4ssn Debs          *      120.42   224.32   2486.5    244.92  286.82   277.5    263.02   295.92   194.32  278.42   261.22   219.12   l61.#
2. 1W Credt                       3.42    17.52    16.02    10.7        7.92     5.82      3.52     5.42     5.82      5.22     4.52      1.63     1.t2
3. 6or.t-Iez  Debt               26.12    50.92    26.22    21.02    17.92    30.82    20.82    20.42    19.42    17.7n    17.15    14.52    14.5t
4. Z*.LUW     OD                lJ2l.02 1272.51   292.7n   276.62          311.93   2   27.32   321.72   319,52   301.32   282.82   257.22 tt9.4t
0. 400-to.qu*geot GD
1. Loug.-To=Debt/I               45.6X    S9.92    6S.12    65.92    69.32    75.12    89.22   120.62   139.32   130.02   121.22   103.92    79.t
2. Uw CSeitIP                     1.32      4.62     4.22      2.92     1.92     1.02      1.22     2.22      2.72     2.42     2.12      0.82     0,42
3. SOot-less DobtI/              10.72      8.32     7.42      5.68     4.32     8.32      7.02     0.32      9.22     8.n2      7.92     7.62     8 .t
4. 1*t1w81 PoIoP                 57.82    72.62    76.7n    74.42    75.52    84.42    97.42   131.12   151.22   140.62   151.32  I12S.   S8?.t
B. Debt ServEio oelns "S
......... .............. _._
1. PublUe. & 0rt.eod LT          10.12    145       17.42    18.02    23.72    2s.42    10.02    35.92    36.22    51.92    28.32        2.       16.82
2. Prvate sou4.anotd LT           7.52      5.42     2.52      3.52     3.12     3.22      1.02     1.92      1.52     1.32      1.02     0.52     0.12t
S. T1 1Io l  DTeb S.'i..e        17.62    29.92    19.92    21.42    26.82    29.62    11.02    37.82    37.72    33.22    29.32    23.72    17.12
4. 1W Re,urebsees"a     .Cbe      0.12      1.52     3.22      6.02     5.22     4.02      0.12      1.42     0.o7     0.52      0.62     1.22    -0.02
5S  toteset Oaly"  s SI Pbt       3.8       1.32     1.72      1.82     2.72     2.42      2.12     1.6t      1.62     1.42      1.32     Z.1S      1.02
6. TOW   WLlMI  ott.)            21.31    23.92    24.92    29.22    34.82    36.01    13.12    40.92    40.02    55.12    31.2S    24.02    18.03
t. oroet        e 2
"lt l  toreatloueot a             4.72      3.5S     3.62      3.72     3.1      4.2S      2.12     7.72     9.22      8.52     7.52      5.8     14.02
2. Totul  stereetlfapost  0      12.42    13.02    13.92    13.92    12.92    15.42        6.22    16.92    19.52    18.22    14.1       14.2.2    6.22
....... . . . ... _. ....... ._. .. . .._...... . ............_ ....................................
It loolud.. roftmanaclus  deofiamoetgso  uai detifted acumce.
at Ilodog            4 ro aeeduiin .



- 45 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
SiDS    PUIILtC F1 A CE
__. __ ......__. ..... ...                                                       Att"A chut 1.
,,,,,,,,,,,.,_,,......................................................,___,............. ___.........____....._____.__............................._._._........._._.__..........._._....._.,,,
t. C.al1 4ted I3' S                                           utIul                                 Pro.                     Projeated
.. ._....,,,,,*,,.............  ......................................................___._.......  __...,  ..................._. .._............,_
to  Jlliou r4r@ot Lapt:r..    1983 .       1984      1985      1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991      1993     1993      1995     l998
A. Toal Curr0ug 3oesip6a         897.9   1093.6   1220.2   1286.7   1432.1   1332.7   1377.3   1217.5   3237.5   3767.3   4321.4   5363.9   6838.7
1. tag  aVS=*                   711.1    881.3    98S.8    999.4   1122.3   1182.9   1939.8   1883.3   2278.3   2631.6   2923.6   3669.1   404.S
2.  on-Taug Ogmot gRceIpt.   186.9    211.3    234.4    387.3    309.6    349.8    281.3    334.1    959.2   114S.6   1386.7   1594.8   3034.4
t. Total Current ISpedttuce   8744        973.3   1136.4   1233.4   1374.5   142.4   1759.8   3412.6   2800.8   5177.5  3552.7   4193.7   536S.1
C. CurrDt .a  a.t B.U...         t3.6    117.4      83.6      53.3     57.6      .9.8   -182.5   .193.1    436.7    489.7    639.7    970.2   1573.6
D. C4pttal apaudltur e 1/        745.5    8:3.4    634.4   5S65.       373.3    638.6    714.6    860.1   1148.3   1205.4   1376.3   1802.3   2610.1
1. OveraJ tage                  .721.9   -706.0   .550.6   .502.0  -515.6   .668.4   -897  .10 -05.2   -711.8   -715.7   .716.7   .3U. 1  .1036.3
MP (.51. LapIra.)             6,035    6.462    7o,00       7.s96    6.118   6*937    9.782   11,660   14.5S7   17,737  23,140   25.747   33,463
As perent of CurrDent COPN
=,=____= ........         .................................................................................................,.__._._.._._.__._._..__.__.__._.._._.__.__ 
A. Total Current Raeipte          14.9      16.9     17.4      16.9     17.6      17.1     16.1      19.0     22.2      31.3      20.8     30.4      20.4
1. ter  Reeu                     11.8     13.6      14.1      13.1     13.8      13.2     13.2      16.1     15.7      14.8     14.4      14.)     14.4
2. Vom-tag Current  ecelpts       3.1      3.3       3.3       3.8      3.8       3.9      3.9       3.9      6.6       6.3      6.4       6.2      6.1
D. Total Currnt :eapadtur.    14.5          15.1     16.3      16.2     16.9      17.3     16.0      30.7      19.2     16.5      17.6     16.7      15.7
C. Current Sudgt Stlaco            0.4       1.8       1.2      0.7      0.7      .0.1     .1.9      .1.7       3.0      2.8       3.3      3.8       4.7
U. Cattal Ipouvituree 11          11.4      11.7      9.1       7.3      7.1       7.4      7.3       7.4       7.9      6.6       6.8      7.0       7.s
1. Overall Deaue                 -12.0    -10.9      .7.9      -4.6    .6.3       .7.5     .9.2      .9.1     .4.9      .4.0      3.35     .3.2      .3.1
i/ tloudes not leading 4nd in *et of capital revoues.



-46 -                              ANNEX II
Pagel of 2
STATUS oF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS in HONDURAS
A. $U T   CY AN  OANS AN  IDA CRZDITS
(As of June 30, 1991)
Amount in US$ million
(loes cancelleato)
Credi            liFiecal                                               ----__ _ _________________.____
Loan NO.          year        Bortwor               Purpoae               Ban         IDA       Undisbursed
31 loa   and 13  credits flly disbursed                                  520.11      103.97
Of which SECAL., SALe, and Program Loas  *>
la. 2990-N1D    1989      Bonduras          Sttctural Adjustmt            50.00
Cr. 2208-lDS    1991      londura           Stvetural Adjuetmet                       18.97
Subtotal                                                             50.00       18.97
La. 2421-lD5      1984   Honduras           Voter Supply                  19.60                       9.76
La. 2703-UDS      1986 kondura              Industrial Credit             37.40                       4.28
Lu. 2804-BDS      1987    Eondurae          primary 8ducatio              4.40                       3.55
La. 2991-rDn      1989     onduras          Agricultural Credit           25.00                       8.13
L a5. 3257-.DS      1991    Sonduras          Structural Adjustment 11      90.00                      45.00
Cr. 2212-0S   b' 1991    Honduras           Social nvestment Fund                     20.00          18.84
Total                                                               696.51      123.97          89.56
Of hich bas been repaid                                             218.30        S.67
Total amy held by Bank and IDA                                      478.21      114.02
Ahount Sold             *  4.46
Of wbich bas been repaids  4.46
Total undiebursed                                                    70.72       18.84          89.56
*  SAL, SWAL, or Progam Loan.
o Approved after MO8.
bo Thio credit became effectivo on June 25, 1991.



- 47-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
HONDURAS
SUMMARY OF IFC INVESTMENTS
as d J." s0. 191
(YU#WM
utOdgina AppMVas      Hold  Held by  Undldbrsed
Fim You-                                                                              by   Partic- (Includin)
hind      0b r                                 Ofud_ Loan  E                 rota    FiO    a       Patlcianft
10641     Smp. de Curtidos Centro-Americana
8A. (ECCASA)                   Tannery             0.30    0.08   0.38
199170    Cla, Pino Celuloa de Centro-
AmJia (COPINO)                 Pulp and Ppepr      0o00    0.08   0.08
197191    Texttes Rio Undo. S.A. de C.V.   extiles and Fibere   9.77    1.00  10.77    3.40
1m        Gre naMaulfias                   shrimp Pacty       0.00    0 S8   0 56    0.s5
Toal gro  commItments                              10.0?    1.73  11.80
Les Cancellations. Terminaone.
Repayment and Sale.s                              7.7    015    782
Toal Commitments now held                           2.40    158   3.97    3 97



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 1-o- 8
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBI.CO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegugalpa, M. D. C. August 26, 199                          No   S-135
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank/International Develpent Association
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington DC   20433
Dear 1r. President:
1. We are writing to you to request the support of the International
Developnent Association (IDA) to assist in the inplementation of
an Energy Sector Adjustment Program (ESAP) which complements and
deepens the reforms initiated  under the Government's econxtuic
restructuring program.
2.  As you know, in January 1990, the Government of Honduras initiated
a program of stabilization and econamic recovery to reverse the
decline in GDP growth and generate sustainable euployment.   In
the short run, the major goals of the program have been, and
continue to be, to reduce the rate of inflation to international
levels, strengthen public finances, improve the current account of
the balance of payments and reintegrate Honduras into the
international financial cawunity.
-  C POCICY.
3. 1Tb acoomplish these goals, our Government, in a sharp departure
from past eccnomic policies, has introduced fundamental economic
reforms during its first year. They include; flexible management
of the exchange rate following more than sixty years of a fixed
exchange rate regime; a major trade reform; a program of revenue
increases - including significant inceases in the prices of
public services - and exenditure cts to reduc  the public sector
deficit;    the  elimination  of  price  subsidies;  and  the
liberalization of interest rates. These reforms are being carried
out within a strict fiscal and credit frame=rk to guarantee
muac37OeOnuuC  stability.   In recognition of these efforts and
folloing  the  clearance  of arrears  to  its imltilatwal and
bilateral creditors in June/July 1990, the GOment successfully
concluded a standby arsrangemt with the  4F for 1990-91, received
Onuprt frm  the Wtrld Bank/MA, IDB and other donors for its
structural and  sectoral  adjustment  progrms  and  poverty
alleviation efforts and reached agreemnt with Paris ClUb
4*;t+-   n A            -.9 4A.. .5DJ.nJ An.4.



- 49 -
ANN~EX III
^                ~~~~~~Page 2 of8
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, M. D. C.              -c-                    N
4.  The transformation of the Honduran ecncy, reducing the role of
the public sector and encouraging a greater participation of the
private sector in the country's quest to restore econanic grawth
and imprve the wellbeing of its population, is a goal to which
our Goverrment remaims firmly dedicated and the above reforms are
essential to its achievement. We assure you, Mr. President, of
or strong commitment to continue with and deepen the refom
process.    In  this  process,  there  are  important  sectors,
responsible for productive activities, which require the
formulation of specific policies to irprove efficiency and ensure
sptirn  use of productive capacity. One of the mst iportant of
these is the energy sector.
EN      SEOR.
5.  In addition to the sector's important role in the develornt of
the country, it also has a significant macroeco nc ipact. With
no dumestic petroleum production, Honduras depernds on oil inlorts
to meet its fuel needs.  During 1990,. imports of petroleum and
derivatives amounted to US$151.0 million, which represents 5.8% of
O;P. Though the country has good prospects of finding oil in its
territory, past efforts to encourage investment in petroleum
exploration have been minimal. With respect to public finances,
the energy sector contributed in 1990 L. 236 million to fiscal
revenues that came fram taxes on imports and on consumption of
petroleum and derivative products. in the electricity subsector,,
the National Pcer Cmpany, EWEE, has operated at a deficit with
Government transfers in 1990 amunting to L.369 million.
6.  EN  also holds 35.3% of Horduras' total external debt of US$3.5
billion, most of which was oontracted to finance irvestments in
ydrogeneration.  The service of these debts weighs heavily on
Honduras' balance of payments needs and partially accounts for co
present difficulty.   Despite past expenditures in  the power
sector, only 35.6% of the population receives electricity, with
rural onnections at only 20%.
7.  In view of this important role of the energy sector in the
econcmy, the Government has set forth a formal energy policy and
strategy to consolidate further our adjustment efforts. The main
objectives of the Government's sector policy are to establish a
reliable energy supply at least cost, and to reduce the negative



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 8
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBI.ICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, M. D. C.                ~3                     No.      .,
inpact of the sector cn fiscal resources and on the country's
balance of paylmts.  Ib inplenert this policy, the irain eleents
of the Government's sector strategy involves:
a)  strengthening of the legal and regulatory framewrk;
b)  institutional    ovements in the pciex Sub-sectorr;
c)  the inpi   tatio  of investment programs consistent with the
macroeconcmic restrictions;
d)  the financial rehabilitation of -E;
e)  the establishment of pricing policies based  On eooncmic
costs; and
f)  stivulation  of  competition  tbrough  participation  of the
private sector.
8. *The Gcoverment has already  implemented important measures in
support of the EMAP.   Effective September 1990, the National
Congress approved an increase of 60% on average in electricity
tariffs.   A further increase of 25% on average effective June
1991, and from there on, a program of monthly increases to align
tariffs with long run marginal costs was put into effect.  In
adition, the Goverent has adopted strict econmic cost/benefit
criteria for decisions regarding Izplez2ntation of new investment
projects, especially those in the e        sector.  In the case of
ENEE, the investment criteria also includes a conservative ratio
of internal fund generation capacity, in accordance with the terms
agreed in the Contract Plan between the Government of Ebnduras and
ENEE, to suppot its financial rehabilitation and maintain a sound
financial position of the cczpany in the medium term.
9.  A nuber of impotant institutional decisions have also been taken
to create supporting mechanisms for the ESAP.  Ah ng them, a
National Energy Cblission (NEC) will be in charge of coordinating
plans, policies and strategies for sectoral development.   Tn
addition, the National Congress bas approved the creation of the
Public Utilities Regulatory cradision (PMRC) to set and regulate
tariffs for all major public utilities. Both of these changes are
expected to assit us in streng#theningr the performance of the
sector.  In the H        ydrocarbons sub-sector, the Government put into
place in 1990 a pricing mechanism for petroleum which maintains
tie prices at international levels and reforms the  tax
structure affecting crude oil and derivatives.



- 51 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 8
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUULICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, M. D. C.                                       No.
LEGAL AND REGJIATCV   FERM.U
10. The legal and regulatorv framework which the Governxent is putting
in place is designed to establish clear rules for the developmnt
of the energy sector and the operations of sector agencies.  For
the sector as a whole, as mentioned above, the Government has
created the NEC to be ccm,posed of the Eonmic Cabinet and the
Minister of Public Works (who is the President of ENEE's Board of
Directors), which would be responsible for establishing and
coordinating sector policy.      The NEC will be in charge of
inpLementing policy reforms and will be supported by a Technical
Energy Group (GTE).   For the 2wer sub-sector* the Government
will implenent a two stage program oriente    transfcrm ENEE in a
more ccmmercially-oriented utility. The first stage is addressing
the need to base pricing actions on econciic criteria through the
creation by a legislative decree of the PUM  which has thl
authority to set tariffs for the major public utilities. As a
second step the Government will carry cut an institutional reform
study which will define the changes to be impl6mlnted in M=  for
it to reach full autoncsM. We expect to omplete the study by May
1992 and initiate implementation of   the reccnrended reforms
inmediately thereafter.
EbEKY SUPPLY
11. To increase the possibilities of domestic supply of hydrocarbons,
the Government will implement a petroleum exploration prcmstion
campaign to open the petroleum basins of Honduras to international
bidding through: (i) the sale of data; and (ii) the hiring, by
December 1991, of experts to market exploration prospects to
internationally qualified oil caopanies and to assist in
negotiations and monitoring of petroleum agreements. In additicn
to the benefits derived from greater foreign private investment,
the confirmation of ccmmercially exploitable petroleum resources
would have a major positive impact on the country's nergy
situation and          ciC prospects.



32 -
ANNEX III
e~~~~~~~age .5 of 9
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
Tegucigalpa, M. D. C.                                        No -
12. Protection of the enviroment and the sustainable explotation of
renewable   natural   resources   underlie   the   Govenment's
environmental policy.   To ensure sound use of Honduras' large
fuelwXod   resources  without  jeopardizing   its  environmental
equilibrium, the Goerment proposes to carry out a study on
interfuel substitution, which will analyze the effects of pricing
changes on the demand and supply of energy products, while
ensuring that the usage of fuelwood remains sustainable. It will
subsequently develop an action plan io implmnt the study's
recxlnuendations.   In the electricity subsector, DEEIs qoerating
and investment guidelines would include basic principles for
protecting the environment and ENEE will take the necessary
measUrS, including ensuring the availability of qualified
technical staff, to ensure that they are  followed.   In the
hydrocarbons  subsector,  the  Government  will  strenghthen  the
insitutional process for monitoring and avoiding any detrimental
effect on the enviroxnent fran oil exploration activities.  The
covernment, with the assistance of esxrts, will prepare the
environmental regulations requiered under the Hydrocarbons Law to
be issued by Decenber 1992.
iSmmL S 3
13. A key element for the success of the reform program will be
reinforcement of energy sector management, including private
sector  participation  when  it  is  feasible  and  econonically
justifiable. As a prerequisite, the Goverunent will ensure that a
committed and qualified  EN   managesent team along with adequate
mnagYswant and operational systems, including a strong policy of
personnel rationalizaticn is in place. Tb help achieve this, a
Z.ranagement and Operational Restructuring Program (NWRP) will be
implemented by EEE with the assistance of qualified ccnsultants
or utilities.  Tbe MDOP includes a bands-on technical assistance
program, ccmprehensive enough to cover all areas of ENEE, with the
basic cbjectives of improving its efficiency and supporting the
achievement of the targets included under the contract-plan
between the Government and M=e as described below. We esqpect to
ccaplete the diagnostic phase of the MCRP by the seocnd quarter of
1992 and begin implementation inmediately thereafter.



- 53 -
ANNEX III
gay              ~~~~~Page 6 of8
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PURLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
TeguciaIpa, ML D. C.                  -                   No ...
14. One of the Governent's top priorities for the public enterprise
sector is to inspire greater responsibility arid ac   ility in
the management of public utilities. Th this end, the Government
and EN  have agreed to sign a contract-plan which would establish
scual responsabilities and a system of control through
performance targets  ropriate for a revenue earning entity.
15. Ei's managemwnt is using the contract-plan to prepare a detailed
busines  pla  under which to operate and has instucted its
organizational units to draw their om   ational plans iluding
a Program to reduce technical and ncn-technical losses in the
short-term.         will ccMalete  inplentation  of the loss
reduction measures by the second quarter of 1991.
16. In view of the need to direct scarce public resources to only the
highest priority works, the Government and DE will follow a
least-cost investsnt program for electric power expansion that
talces  financial   nstraints  and  eninntal  conoens  into
account. flu 's Board has embraced these principles by issuing
appropriate guidelines through a resolution dated July 30, 1991,
which defines clearly the principles on which the selectico of
investments wi1l be made.
F,ANC. PLJAN.
17. One of the major aims of the ESXP is to restore and maintain a
sound financial situation  in the electricity  subsector.   To
overoue the difficult financial situation of ENE, which has
created a significant acculation of arrears, the Governt with
the support of the Bank and IDB has prepared a Financial
Rehabilitation Plan (FRP).  IBe  P  seeks to strengthen  IE's
financs by increasing internal fund generation through adequat
electicity pricing and by having the Govern=ent inject additionl
equity into MM; to stits capital struture.  FinEnci
discipline would be institutionalized in the mnagemnt of working
capitaal, particularly in collection and payment practices. The
FRP  has very definite targets as well as an iuplai_ntation
schedule, as follows:  Mi) cash operating margin of 83% in 1991
and 1992, (ii) miniurn self-financing ratio of 10% for 1991 and



- 54 -
A6                      ANNEX III
Page 7 of 8
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBEICO
REPUBUCA DE HONDURAS
Tegucgalpa, M. D. C.                  7No, .
1992;   (iii) maximum debt-equity ratio of 67/33;   (iv) minion
debt service coverage of 1.0 in 1992 and 1.1 thereafter, and (v)
billings collection period of 190 days for 1991 and 120 days for
1992 to reach 60 days by 1994.  To  achieve the above targets
under the  MEP, the Govern=ent will ensure;   (i) an electricity
tariff struture which will gradually align tariffs with econc
costs  for  all groups  of   onsimrs  (with  the  exception  of
low-incua  residential custones) and the establishmnt of a
uchanism  for maintenance of the tariff level in real tems
(ii)   timely payment of all Government ind public agencies
electricity bills beginning January 1, 1991 for which the
Government has provided the recessary budget and has set up a
clearing-house mechanism for electricity bills of the Government
and its agencies;  (iii)  retructuring E's debt so as to align
debt service with E IEE's cash generating capacity;  (iv) making an
equity contribution of US$100 million;   and (v) settlenent of
mt2tual arrears between    and various Government agencies.
CING ACTZONS.
18. With the purpose of ensuring efficient production and c ption
of energy, the Government's pricing policy in the sector will be
based an econiic principles, avoiding to  the maximum  extent
possible the use of subsidies.   Ihe Government has already
implemented large electricity tariff increases and has adopted a
tariff adjustment plan whidh by Deow*er 1992 will slign
electricity rates with Long Run Margiral Costs, including
aatutatic periodic adjustments when wwrrented to take due account
of changing costs. Given the increasing burden of the economic
adjustment cn the working class that has taken place and the
magnitude of the price increases which have had to be implemented,
the Goverment has decided to put in place a taparary progrm of
explicit subsidies for residential consumers of electricity, using
less than 500 kwh per month, which is estimated to cost L.11.3
million (US$2.1 million equivalent) through end 1992. We will be
phasing out those subsidies by the first semester of 1993.
PEIR)LEa2  LIBERALIZAIO PROAM.
19. Regarding petroleum prices, the Government intends to leave the
forces of the market to play a fundamental role with the objective
Of obtaining a better allocation of resources and introducig



- 55 -
ANNEX III
Page 8 of8
SECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
REPUBLICA DE HONDURAS
TegucigaIpa, M. D. C.               -9-                    No.
efficiency  and transpar    to the sector.   lb this end, a
Petroleum Prices Autanatic Adjustment Program will be inplexented
by the Government in two phases for the gradual deregulaticn of
petroleum products supply through the retail level.   The first
phase, which is expected to be ibleuented by May 1992, includes
Mi) establishing a pricing mchanism for petroleum products which
will simulate prices prevailing in a deregulated market and (ii)
permitting refiners, distributors and major consumers to iqport
crude oil or derivatives directly.   The second phase, to be
ccsmleted by Decmber 1992, wil entail the ccmplete deregulation
of  refining,  importation,  exportation,  transportation,  and
-wholesale//retail distribution through the decontrol of retail
prices and renoval of barriers to entry to the petroleum market.
COMMSICN.
20. The program described above will have a major impact cn the
sly   macroconauic prospects and is expected to lead to
restored financial health for ENEE. Our desire for an adjustment
operation with IDA is based on HBonduras' balance of payments
financing requirents which are est$mated at US$ 750 million over
the next tw years. We appreciate the support of the Bank and DA
for Honduras' reform program and lock foward to a continued
cooperative and successful dialogue which will assist in placing
Hondras on a path to stable and sustained egoraic growth.
Sincerely Y
=7



HONDURAS: ENERGY SECTOR ADJlUSTENT PROGRAM  ES A                                          A              ANNEN X IV
POLICY MATRIX    _          heptnber 18,1991)                                            Page I of 5
POLICY AREA                                                                             NEASUNES TO BE TAKEN BY
Issues          g                              ACTIONS TAXM I  
Issues               CbJective                                           I       Effectiveness             second Tranche               Third Tranche
1. ECONOMY
(a) The need to      To aeure a positive   IMF standuby agreement          QO to maintain            CCH to maintain            GOR to maintain
maintain a           contribution of the    eroved in July 1990  and   supportive macroeconomic   supportive macroecninmwc   supportive macroeconamic
supportive           energy sector to        second review cxxpteted in   framework.                   framework.                 framework.
maceroeci-e          macroeconomic           may 1991.
framework.           adjustment efforts
supported by SAL 11.
(b) The energy                               QoH presented action plan                                                            Electricity stbsidr
sector constitutes                           to elidmnate electricity                                                             program etliminated.
a heavy burden on                            subsfdy program.
the fiscat
accounts. ___________  _
n. ENER9Y SECtOR
1. POUCY AND STRATEY
(c) The energy       To define an energy    00Q  presented satisfactory
sector tacks a       policy and strategy     final version of sector
formal energy        compatible with         policy statement and
policy and           mmcroeocomlic           strategy.
strategy.            policy.
(d) fueluod has      To iedntify effects    CO# has presented                                         GOR to complete and         G0N to stbait
been used            of proposed energy      satisfactory final version                               smfait study to the         satisfactory action plan
intensively          sector reform  on       of TOR for Study on tnter-                               smnk.                       for ioplenenting the
without adeute       productfon costs of    fuel Sehstitutfon and has                                                             study's recommendations,
regard for the       good and services,    invited consultant                                                                     and furnish to the Bank
enviroent, and       Wm  to addess           propos.                                                                              for coaments.
its effects en       iapact of moodfuel
devepment.           cornsption on the
! __________________   environment.                                                                                                 -           .__           I



HONDURAS: ENERGY SWCOR ADJUSTMENT PtOGRAM (ESAP)                                                         ANNEiX IV
POLICY MATRIX  (Septembae   1D91)                                                        Page 2 of 5
P.JCV AREA                                                I =                               MS TO BE TAKEN BY  __________
ACTIONS TAE M                                               t
Issues               Objective              _                                   Effectiveness       |      Second Iranche               Third Tranche
2. NSnTMUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
I.) Institutiens     to establish the        GoU has enacted Executive                                Satisfactory perforiance   Satisfactory performe
iwmolved In energy   institutionaL           Decree to create National                                of NEC.                     of NEC.
activities hae       framework needed to    Energy Commission (NEC).
little               iplIep ent the energy
coordination wd      policy and strategy.
lack a unified
4woah. ..  
(f) Isportant        To establish an         Congress passed lam           Legislation codifying      Issuance of guidetines      Functions and activities
decision-uaking      adeqiate regulatory    creating Public Utilities    composition of PURC          for electricity             of PUFC being carried
fumctions have       system.                 Regulatory Cosuission         mosriership has been       subsector.                  out pursuamt to law and
been absorbed by                             (PURC) and has sadmitted      approved.                                              regupations.
Coswpness.                                   legislation to Congress to
modify its sdmaership. Low                               Functions and activities
is effective.                                            of PURC being carried
out puuant to law and
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ _regulations.X
(s) EPEE bas lost    To give to ENEE         Congress approved 1991                                   ENEE contracted             GCH to ieement
the corporate        aderaate outonosw to   budget for EKE with                                       consultant services for    satisfactory
autonoWy it once     atlow it to operate    clause Afi,h would allow                                  second phase of Study       institutional reforms.
enjoyed under its    on a commercial         EWEE to adjust tariffs.                                  and present satisfactory
constitutive law.    basis.                  WuN presented satisfactory                               action plan to
final version of TOR for                                 Impleent, before third
Power Stbsector Instit-                                  tranche, institutional
utional Reform Study and                                 reforms rec  mmnded by
has retained consultants                                 Study.
for its first _hase.        I                          I_                         I 



HONDURAS: NERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (ESAI')                                                        ANNEX IV
POICY MATRIX  (Su_mbs  15 1991)                                                          Pap 3 of S
P        AM                         ARlCTiO_S TAKEN                                     fEASLkES LOB  TAIIN BY
Issues               lb ective                                                   Effectiveness              Secon  Tranche              Third Trancie
M. ELETIC POW    SUUSECTOR
1. OUONAL AD FNANCA  WOREV  '
tb) E1EE is          to estaoblist, a        eCotract-plan has bean                                   IMO  ard EKEE to            WOU ad ESEE to
subject to           perforanwoe control    agreed, inctuding                                          implement the contract-    iaplement the contract-
excessive            system between GON      e ficiency Ifprveoents                                    plan and achieve Its       ptan and achieve Its
Ccnermm nt           and EKEE  with          and has been pubifshed in                                 tarets.                    targets.
Interfere ic In      mutual commitments      official Gazette.
its day-to-dy        end mmnitorable
wat ions.            targets.                                                                                                                                i
(1) EEs's ovweratl   To Irve EwE's           Final TIM haow been                                       EmEE to complete           EKE to Implement oMP.
manager il and       effi cieny by           agreed. ENEE has pre-                                     diagnostic phase of
operational          carrying out the        setected short list of                                    NWOP.
pe3formane needs    NMgmt and                qualified power consulting
strengthening.       operational             firms end utilitIes and
Restructuring           catled for proqpsals.
ProGram (NOEP).               |_cn
(I) Electricity      To reduce               EKEE has started                                         EKES to complete
losses havw          electricity losses      imptementation of toss-                                   implementation of short-
reached an           under a short-term      reduction measures.                                       term measures to reduce
excessively high     program, in                                                                      electricity losses.
tevel twict          preparation for
requires immediate   further actions
correctfve action.   under the NWRP.
(k) A selection of   To ensure that the      A least-cost investment                                  EKEE to suim(t 1992         EUEE to sAbmit 1993
prolects at EnEE     selection of            program has been agreed                                   updated Investment plan,   updated investment plan
has not followed     electricity projects   mid EKEE has adopted                                      consistent with adopted    consistent with adopted
strict econimic      is based on esonomic   agreed principles for                                     principles.                 principles.
and financial        principles, taking      selection of Investment
prfmciples.          due account of          projects and their
finaicial               implementation.
constraints and
envirosuental
aspects.
The conditions wider this category form part of an operationcl and Financial Rebebititation Action Plan (OFRAP).



HONDURAS: ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTFME PROGRAM (ESAPI                                                           ANNEX IV
POLICY MATRIX  (Seq*nber 18, 1991)                                                         Page 4 of 5
Pat  AMEA                                                  I                             KEASURES TO BE TAKE   _BY
ACTIONS TAKEW
Issues _ _   _ectC Se                                                             Effectiveness              Socond Trancho       I       Third Trancho
lt) ENEE's           To rehabilitate          In sUIVort Of Financial       60H and Its agencies are   ENEE to achieve              EKES to achieve
financial            EEESs f inances to       Rehabilitation Plan UIP),   current In payment of         financial targets of (i)   firancial targets of (i)
situation has        Make It a                GOH and ElEE havo: 1) had     electricity bills.          cash operating ratio of    cash operating ratio of
deteriorated          financially soswd       all electricity bills for                                 83M  contributian to        831, contribution to
significantly.       entity, including        6oN and fts toaences paid                                 investment of 10X ard       investment of 101. and
agreement on a plan    beginning Jan 1, 1991, and                                 debt service coverage       debt service coverage
to settle  utualt       iI) approved clearing-                                    ratio of 0.9 for twelve    ratio of 1.0 for twelve
arrears between EbEE   house mechanism for                                        months preceding tranche   months preceding tranche
and G081.               electricity bilts of GaK                                  release; and Cii) 190       release; and (11) 120
and Its agencies. GON                                     days for collection        days for collection
has contributed equity                                    period.                     period.
eqafvatent to IBRD and IDB
fast-disbursin  toans, and
debt service
differentials, net of past
wunaid electricity bll(s.
Parts Club meetings were                                  WOHwd ENE to cmply          0  and ENEE to emo ply
successfully cqpleted to                                  with satisfactory           with satisfactory
restructure Vanduras                                      impleentation of            iqplanentation of
bilaterat debt.                                           clearing-house              ctearing-house
mechanism.                 mechanism.
2. ELcS TCIlY PRICI
(m) Rate levels      To set and maintain    GOH isplemented an average                                  60H and EMEU to set         GON and EKES to set
have deteriorated    electricity rates to   60X Increase in September                                   tariff levels to  reach    tariff levels to reaeh
in real terms        ensure the financial   1990 and 25X effective                                      on amerage about 901 of    on average 10DX of LRUC;
because of           soandeess of EkEE        June 1. 1991. GON has put                                 LRUC; to set no tariff      to set no tariff
inflation and        and to relate the       In place progra aligning                                   category at level less     category at level less
devaluation of the   tariff structure to    tariff structure with                                       than 80X of LRNC (except   than 901 of LRUC (except
lempira.             long-run marginal       econrmf costs, including                                   residential consumers       residential consLuers
costs (LRUC).           mechanism to take into                                    300 kWh or less).           300 kWh or less).
accous t exchange rate
_  variations.



HOND)RAS: VIERGY S1TOR ADJU9fM1W PROGRAM (SP                                                             ANNEX IV
POLICY MAITRI   (Sq,temIw  1i, W9I1)                                                     Pago SotS
PMIC  ARE                                        J           tASURES TO E                                  N
ACTIOS tAE           I                                                         
Issus                                               ACTINeve  _T                 Effectivness              Second Trnce                 Third Trunhe
IV. PEIRIOLEW  SU_C1T_
(a) Tha Petrolasa    To attrawt              Ilydtewboa taw ictudes                                   n01 to hire consuttents.
ptental* of          intentiontlly           adeate prvlsion; data
Eontws  has not      wat if fed coponfes    b* torsed wider IBM3
been sufficiently    to exptore for olt      loan t861-Uo. IOU has
explored.            1n  gS.                 preseted satisfactory
final vwersin of TOR for
tecbnicat assistwee (TA)
to support negotiatiors
with exptoration bidder
and estdAstmedt of a
monitorineg SstaS and bas
invited consultat
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   DmtlO o a l s.        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ . _ _ _ -
(0) Reqlatione       To antwe that oil t      ydrocarbon  law provides                                To submit regulations.      To enact regulations.
for omwrmmnital    and gas exploration       for SON to isFue
protection from      takes into actoxamt     eairtwmit protection
oil and gas          the need to protect    regutations.  TOR for TA
exploration are      the envirnsment.        to prepare regulations
incoaslete. -      Iwiere agreed.
2. SUPPLY MANAGQrT
(p) Tbe current      To  tiberalize          Following consultant                                     tmplementatfon of first    tcpleetatIon of second
syste  of            (deregulate) supply    studies,  taUCiU#Se                                        hase of PLP, as agreed    phase of PIP, as agreed
petrolesm sqaply     and distribution of    petrotel. tiberalization                                  In actfon plan.             fn action plan.
is rot c c   iw      petrolte   prodocts.    proeraw   (PLP) has been
to lest cost and                             designed. GON has pro-
does act prxvide                             sented satisfactory final
incentives to                                mersion of PtP and
reward efficienty.                           detalled action plan and
has fntradeced first
Fhase.
MON has presented                                        GOH to hire consultants.
satisfactory ToR for TA in
su wrt of dere"gulaton
and has invited consultant
_ _ ~~~~~~~p                        o p s l .                  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ - _ _



- 61 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 9
HONDURAS
ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
EVOLUTION, SITUATION. AND PROSPECTS
Summary                                           The Sector and the Economy
1.      The electric power sector of Honduras    2.       The sector Is affected by, and in turn
faces serious financial problems because of high  affects, economic conditions. This relationship is
levels of debt and debt service that resulted from  Illustrated by the close association between the
the financing of an ambitious investment program  behavior of economic growth and electricity
in the early 1980s which included the El Cajon    demand. In Honduras during the last two decades,
hydro plant. This plant more than doubled the     electriafysales growth had a pattem which follows
installed capacity of the country, and it has affected  GDP growtbat a faster rate: significant increases
all sector, as wel as many country, indicators. The  In the 1970sl,ax drop in the early 1980s, and a
sector's high debt service obligations are out of  modest recuperation in the late 1980s (Figure 1).
line with the useful Life of the assets that they  During some years in the late 1970s, electricity
financed. They became unsustainable after the
onset of the debt crisis and the political problems  figure 1
of Central America, as Honduras' access to                          ROW   TEH
external financial markets was cut. The financial
problems were compounded by the devaluation of
the US dollar to which the local currency is
pegged, by lower than exted growth in
electricity demand due to the social and political      -
turmoil in the region (which particularly affected
electricity exports), as well as by low operational
performance reflected in high electricity losses, and
poor collection practices. Tariff levels, which had   -      v
been adequate until March 1990 when the local
currency was devalued, are now below long-run       s  .  I .      I
marginal costs. In the past, although said tariffs
provided a positive rate of return, internal funding   -_      _     _    _     _n
was not sufficient to cover debt service obligations.
In the recent past, successful negotiations with
creditors have led to restructure debt in order to  sales growth was lower than economic growth
match debt service obligations with internal      mainly because of the sector's inability to serve
funding. At present, efforts are being made to    market demand due to insufficient facilities, but
restore real tariff levels. If these actions are fully  once El Cajdn was commissioned, the pattern
implemented, and operational efficiency is attained,  became more clear. Because of the particular
the financial prospects of the sector would be    conditions of the country regarding degree of
satisfactory and it should be able to fund its    economic and sector development, the spread
investments without financial assistance from the  between the electricity demand growth rate and the
Government.                                       GDP growth rate has been significant: 7.4% p.a. in
the 1970s and 4.3% p.a. in the 1980s.



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 9
3.      The contribution of the secor to         Theketricity Market: Supply and Demand
economic and social development can be seen by
the growth of consumption per capita, even under  5.      In 1990, total electricity usage was 2,302
unfavorable  country  economic  conditions.      GWh, which is about 7.8 times the level of 1971
Electricity consumption per capita in Honduras is  (296 GWh). It is expected to grow to 2,874 GWh
still low compared with other countries in the    by 1999, i.e., about 9.7 times the level of 1971
region. However, during the last two decades it  (Figure 3). This impressive growth is, of course,
showed steady growth, as it increased from 93 kWh
in 1971 to 323 kWh in 1990 (6.8% p.a), while      Figure 3
GDP per capita had only minor growth, as it                   ELECTFU0TY USES
increased from 902 US$ to 956 US$ (0.3% p.a.)
(Figure 2).
Figure 2                                           1--
PER CAPITA INDICES
117    * 1914  1t " 919   1N$  O4   19 2  19m
so,im  mse a                                                                      sE*w.uwm
I- .,     .     I  ,f . fI .,  in part due to the low levels of consumption at the
1111117  9?17  951119  1beginning of the period analyzed, but it also shows
__ _ an_1 ""I    _ D NM 0_314           the significant efforts made to provide increased
service to the economy and the population. In
1990, the composition of internal sales of
4.      Another indicator of the  positive       electricity was: 34% residential, 20% commercial,
contribution of the sector to development is the  36% industrial, and the rest other. The most
degree of electrification which, although low, has  impressive growth is that of residential sales, as its
increased significantly from 12% in 1971 to 36% in  share in 1971 was only 23%. The sector made a
1990. While 80% to 90,% of urban areas receive   contribution to the countrys current account,
electricity, only about 19% of rural areas have  through exports of electricity to neighboring
access to iL  The total number of customers      countries during the 1984-1990 period because of
increased nearly five times between 1971 to 1989,  the availability of surplus energy from El Cajon.
from 60 thousand to 322 thousand.                Albeit lower than expected and with serious
problems of collection, these exports have helped
Honduras by providing foreign exchange.
However, because of the continuous increase in
local demand, such excess of energy is not expected
to be available after 1993.



- 63 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 9
6.      To meet electricity demand, since 1982   Figure S
the sector has relied fundamentally on hydro                   INSTAE C      IT
generation  with a small share of thermal
generation for the isolated systems. The sector
shows a short period of imports before the     Se                -
commissioning of El Cajdn and a minimum of
thermal generation for the isolated systems                                       i 4 0
afterwards (Figure 4). _
S0
ELECMRJITY SOURCES                     I   E,11       
C ||RRI iiliiiiiLM l lll1ii
Z~~~~~~~~~~T In     I tm  I# I I II  I   In VNrn
l , *. ~~~~~~~~~Opffdn erforPann
____ *"         8.       Th 'e sector's installed  capacity, as
..  ..     ..  ..... .   I, .    . *,  compared with domestic demand, resulted in an
LM  snot Im  lnt  M  ISt t 09 9"S  1nXt s"s  SM  exmsive  reserve  margin  in  1985  (160%).
- ,, am 03 im  =MM  IWI                      However, it is continuously being reduced by
mt-t":                   ~~~~~increasing deraand (62% in 1990). 'Me secor
investment program includes only small thermal
plants in 1995 and 1998.
7.      Such electric energy available to the grid
was generated by an installed  electric capacity  9.      Particularly  woinisome  are  the
which  was  about  50%    hydro  untcl the       maintenance practicesofthe sector. Difficulties inn
commissioning of El Cajon in 1984 and 76%        meetieg market demand in the late 1978s were in
afterwards. With all four units of El Cajon (473  part caused by the unavailability of therdu l
MW), ENEEs total installed capacity reached 561  capacity which since 1976 has been in the vicinity
MW, of which 547 MW  (97%) belong to fth         of 400Yo, a critical level in view of the rapidly
interconneted system and the rest to isolated    increasing demand. This has, of course, affected
systems. As the hydroelerc  instaleations ate gdy  the availability of total capaaty.
uwied, the seabor is %pected to have to rely on
additional theoL  generation starting in 1995
(Figure 5).



- 64 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 9
10.     Regarding  operational  efficiency          Figure 7
indicators related to labor productivity, absolute              LOSSEWENEMY AVAILABLE
levels are still low compared with similar countries,
and there is much room for improvement in spite
of an improving trend until a few years ago. The         . .. .........
number of customers per employee increased from
42 in 1971 to 97 in 1990, and MWh sales of            *  _            _ --                 _
electricity per employee increased from 178 to 416
during the same years (Figure 6).
lo.
(Figure 6
EFFICENCY INDICES
sut    t              >   uSt,"         es . .    I       I ..i ..t..|..I      , 
.u,             *t1119 PsaeImAt tinan cl nImnt
. -16,919    12.      Collections have also shown a clear
49                                   249.019      deterioration during the 1980s. The collection
period moved from 108 billing days in 1986 to 302
days in 1990.  This is both because of poor
0 ,, ,, , I,..,collection practices and government interference,
1.T1 1914 1911 LUG 19 198 19  199 1 991 19s9     as often the Govermnent does not allow the
|nmimolW- an uLwu                          disconnection of clients that do not pay their
st-m                                accounts on time (Figure 8).
11.     Another factor of concern is the increase                  COLLECTON PEIOD
in electricity losses. They reached 25% of the
gross energy available to the grid in 1990, with      no
growth of about 8% p.a. during the 1980s. The                  ___.
high level of losses is, in part, due to deterioration
of the distribution grid, as available resources were                             ..-.
allocated to investment in generation in the early  X      _  . .           .
1980s, and  questionable  rural electrification       198                              -
programs in the late 1980s. A series of corrective
measures  in  the  areas of investment and            no -
commercial practices is expected to reduce losses        ___
to 14% by 1996 (Figure 7).
1"9  1914 Li" Ion to"  LS"  19  1992 011 gmW
1191-19911 Ms"c



- 65 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 9
Proftabilty                                         tariff level was affected by the deraluation of the
Lempira, as the exchange rate moved from 2 to 4
13.     The weakening financial position of the     Lps/US$ in March and reached 5.3 at the end of
sector can be seen in its financial return indicators.  that year. An increase of about 60(% in nominal
The rate of return on assets has been positive in   terms in September was not enough to recuperate
all years but has had a steadily decreasing trend   the level of tariffs in real terms.
since the early 1970s, as it moved from about 9.6%
in 1972, with an almost flat plateau of about 10%   Figure 10
in the late 1970s, to a low of 4% in 1986. With                  UNIT PFICES AND COB
some exceptional years, the Interest coverage ratio              UA
followed a similar pattern to the rate of return
with the most critical years occurring in the late
198Qs. One of the reasons for this was that the
average interest was greater than the rate of return    -
(12.0% vs. 2.2%, in 1990) resulting in a negative
leverage that led to a further deterioration of       -. 
sector finances. This negative trend is expected to
be reversed under a financial rehabilitation plan     a. --------- -----.-.
about to be implemented (Figure 9).
1971 1914 197? S190  1003 1M 1M I 99 IM 0 106S
Figure 9                                                 -4- -OS 140 Dve C   -CtO? 0W4 tf   -4 XtIC  tom 
RETURN SULMMARY                                          fll-1m: PlWEt
15.     The composition of operating revenues
.                 A                   ssx         has had a stable pattern except for the revenues
.  z        *    41\                  .9.         from exports of electricity during the second half
of the 1980s.  The composition of operating
revenues in 1971 compares with that of 1988 as
follows: residential, 38% vs. 33%; commercial, 23%
vs. 20%; industrial, 33% vs. 27%; and exports, 0%
o ,.n.i .... i.,.i   .;.~..   - ~    vs. 8% (Figure 11).
117, 191477 li1    10 1    1998 99a 19"9
- hxs? ego  -X- ma o                       Figure 11
COMPOS8TION OF OPERATING REVENUES
14.     The  unit price  of electricity  has                        .. :  .    ____.
fluctuated between 80 and 120 US$tMWh. After                         .:     :
the early 1980s, it started falling because of
inflation, as no nominal adjuot=nts were made
until 1990. Most of the time, unit costs have been
between 40 and 80 US$IMWh, following a pattern                                          - ----
close to that of prices (Figure 10). One factor       I .
negatively affecting sector operating revenues since   1971 1974 IV"7   0 1km  1   199 189 M  19*"
1985 has been the free electricity service to the       E             M tm  Cs tAJITW
government and its agencies, a situation which will      M no WS       o           = o
be corrected starting in 1991. In 1990, the average                    M P-1I: IOICoW



- 66 -
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 9
16.     The composition of operating costs        Figum 13
reflects the changing supply conditions of the       SECTOR INVESIENTMCOUNTRY INVESTMENT
sector. Fuel costs as a percentage of operating
revenues increased from 7% in 1971 to around
20%o in 1982, at which time electricity imports
complemented local generation until 1985. After       ANUAL AVERAGE    ANNUAL AVERAGE
this, the component which showed the most                   n VA
significant increase was depreciation, as it moved
from 14% in 1985 to 27% in 1986 as a result of
the commissioning of El Caj6n (Figure 12).
Figure 12
COMPOSITION OF OPERATNO COSTS
Figure 14
SECTOR EXPENDITURE/GDP
|  lt   1S7   IV"7  1t1w   t0    15    In g   191  1is
;mt ILC C_T3 MO    e 59l1  GM5* Iarm  I      .1o
10l1-1l9: MWCT01"
6.a
The Sect wad Couway Resourca
17.     The electric power sector of Honduras                         4a
absorbed a significant amount of country and                            IID?     mmamT
government resources, especially during the 1980s
with the construction of El Cajon. Thus, while
sector investments as a percentage of country     F1gure 15
investments were about 6% in the 1970s, they                   SECTOR DEFICT/GDP
reached about 18%  in the 1980s (Figure 13).
Sector expenditures, which were close to 2% of  ..-
GDP during the 1970s, reached 6% in the early
1980s and dropped to 3% in the late 1980s after
the commissioning of El Caj6n (Figure 14). While
not requiring any government assistance during the
1970s, the sectores contribution to the fiscal deficit
became about 0.8% of GDP in the early 198s and     0.0 
0.2% during the late 1980s (Figure 15).
1111-741  111-19  1964     211



- 67 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 9
Sector debt, which was about 20% of country debt   Figure 17
in the early 1970s, reached about 22% in 1990                        IVESTMENT
(Figure 16).                                          out""
Figure 16
DET AND DEBT SERVEINOC E 8 .E                           ------
ex  I__ * 
1.                                                        'Me, f111in        of  t
_              /                    ~~~~~~~~~sgnflcny afeted by suc  investmnt prora
F-, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I , ?--  it,  F  IV, i   .98    I96    .93    -9I9    913m ..9    . - -
MT SEM/MAL am Um                                     tm m aII IS
i           ~~~-^  ...-                       19.      The  funding  of  the  sector  was
l                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~significantly affected by such investment program
*__________ _____________                         and by the corresponding debt service burden
resulting from the borrowings that were contracted.
Thus, both the debt service coverage ratio and the
Fwuing Requirems awd Sowna                         self-financing ratio show similar patterns, ie.,
steadily decreasing since the early 1970s until the
18.     The significant effect of El Caj6n on the  mid 1980s, hitting bottom in 1986, and since then,
sector's funding requirements deserves to be       showing spurts of recuperation which reflect the
highlighted. The sector investment program, which  efforts made to reverse the historical trend
had been low during the 1970s (average of US$38    (Figure 18).
million p.a.), moved to a high level during the
early 1980s (US$188 million p.a.) before dropping  Figor is
substantially in the late 1980s (US$62 million p.a.).
It is expected  to  decrease  in  the  1990s                   FUNDIN  SUMM
(US$42 million p.a.) (Figure 17).                   .
-a~~~~~~~4
1991   uN   13    196   193  IS   196   193   99   13
-  nIU ut-. -4 ftU mu"e
,rn-19m tucg



- 68 -
ANNEX V
Page 8 of 9
20.      The composition of uses of funds shows       21.      The pattern in debt service reflects, in a
a notable change beginning in the late 1980s. The     deferred manner, the share of borrowings in the
share for investment, which had reached about         mix used to fund the investment program.  It
80%i in the early 1980s, has decreased since then     moved from a little over 50%  in the 1970s to
and is expected to continue so in the future until   almost 61%  in the early 1980s.  If actions to
it reaches 31% in the late 1990s. Except for minor   correct prices, restructure debt, and improve
working capital increases, the main  funding          efficiency are fully implemented, the financial
requirements arise from  debt service payments        prospects of the sector for the 1990s would be
which have had, and will continue to have, an         strong enough to correct the serious distortions of
increasing  share  of  the  sector's  funding         the past (Figure 20). This is especially significant
requirements (Figure 19). The apparently healthy      regarding the problem of accumulated arrears on
increase in working capital registered in the late   debt service which has been resolved to a great
1980s reflects, in fact, poor financial management,  intent thanks to an agreement with the Paris Club
as the principal factor is the increase in the        creditors and also by the assumption of debt
collection period (see para. 12).                    service by the government.
igure 19                                            Figure 20
COMPOSMTION OF USES OF FUNDS                        COMPOSMON OF SOURCES OF FUNDS
.                     .tt     :  .::: _  .-.   _   : ::: :: _    ::  :: _    :    :: _    :: ::::.......    ......
sac.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O .......
VA                                         M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L7-74    1971-71    111144    111141  Me1-9   1911-1
1971-?4  11119044 l,9141  191-94                     111              FMi
m11um0                             iaia  f1us   CM CL.MrT Cin,  mT CM"
- - aXt nazis:      unu Ctiwe ~ntl                               O PUIMICIc9 1P   Ill CWROP1o1W91CO
t1119-1999 ttdSUS                                    1919-1911: 199Ato"TM



- 69 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 9
22.     Under the above conditions the funding    Capil Strurew
prospects of the sector look reasonably sound
except for the first two years when a major funding  23.  The inability of the sector to generate
gap  will  require  substantial  government       enough internal funding to cover debt service
contributions, US$100 million in current US$.     obligations bas resulted in accumulated arrears on
After this period the funding prospects of the    debt service which at the end of 1990 were close to
sector improve  significantly  thanks  to  the    US$177 million, i.e., about 75% of the countrys
restructured debt service profile and a low       arrears, reflecting the impact of the sector on fiscal
investment program  which result in adequate     resources and the balance of payments of the
self-funding of about 50% during the mid 1990s.   country. It has also negatively affected the capital
However, such situation might be worse depending  structure of the sector, as the debt/equity ratio
on the terms and conditions obtained to finance  increased from 44/56 in 1979 to 75/25 in 1990.
the gap. In any case, at the end of the decade it is  The prospects of the sector's capital structure,
expected  to  deteriorate  as the  investment     however, look brighter as the arrears problem has
requirements increase significantly (Figure 21).  been solved (see para21), the government makes
its significant equity contributions (see para.22),
igue 21                                          and the profitability of the sector improves
FUNDING PROSPECT                    (para.13) (Figure 22).
!LUN LM m                                     Figure 22
CAPITAL STCTUFE
g  IWUL -            c ut .mmu1
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19  191 X)1 191 134 13  96 199196
X F=  WMt   R=                                  OX.  . .  .  . .  .  ..  . .  . .  .  .
snssn m ss    Zstsmm  -
M lm MI no M AM AM 391 MS Me
111111 if   IM  



- 70 -
ANEX zVI
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS OF CONTRACT-PLAN
1.        The purpose of this Contract-Plan (CP) is to establish mutual
commitments between the Government of Honduras (GOH) and the Empresa Nacional
de Energia Electrica (ENEE) for executing the Energy Sector Adjustment Program
(ESAP). The purpose of ESAP is to strengthen ENEE with respect to its
inst .i-t-o-1   framework, finances, operations and maintenance, and expansion
planning. To this end, the CP reflects:
(a)   GOH commitments to: (i) permit ENEE to provide a reliable supply
of electricity at least cost with a price to the consumer
reflecting long-run marginal cost; and (ii) establish the corporate
autonomy of ENEE; and
(b)   ENEE commitments to: (i) improve its efficiency as measured by
specific targets; and (ii) implement such measures as needed to
reach those targets according to corresponding timetables.
A. COMMITMENTS OF THE GOVERNMENT
2.        GOH shall take those legal, administrative, and institutional
actions which shall permit the timely and efficient execution of the ESAP; and
commits itself to carry out the following actions:
Institutional Framework
- to advance the processes which shall provide ENEE with a reasonable
degree of corporate autonomy permitting fast administrative
action based on a system of control and monitoring through indicators
of performance;
Manacment
- to nominate and maintain in the positions of General Manager and Deputy
General Managers qualified professionals with proved experience in the
management of enterprises, preferably in the public sector.
- to assure that ENEE modernizes its organization and management systems
to meet the requirements of its activities. To thie end, ENEE will carry
out a Management and Operational Restructuring Program (MORP).
- to assure that ENEE manages efficiently its human resources as part
of a policy of sound corporate activity by applying the corres-
ponding MORP recommendations;



- 71 -
Page 2 of 5
- to supply in a timely manner and in the amounts required such currency
resources as ENEE seeks to purchase with corresponding amounts of
Lex.piras, the object of such purchases being the full execution of the
ESAP.
Fnancial
- to support the Financial Rehabilitation Plan (FRP) of ENEE, bys
(1) increasing the internal generation of funds; (ii) strengthening
the capital structure; (iii) setting the future level of debt-service
payments to reflect the internal funding capacity; (iv) establishing
financial discipline for payments and collections.
- to establish principles for establishing electricity tariffs, based
on economic criteria (marginal cost) and financial
adequacy (i.e., to meet the objectives of the FRP) and to guarantee
the application of said principles;
- to assure that electricity tariffs maintain their value in real terms;
- to supply the financial resources required for the full execution of
the ESAP. To this end, the Government shall provide EINE with an
equity contribution amounting to the equivalent of the adjustment
portions of the loans and credit being provided by the International
Development Association and the InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB);
- to convert into equity capital the amount owed by ENEE to the GOH for
ERIE debt service paid by GOH;
- to contribute as equity capital the interest differential owed thorough
year end 1990 as a result of relending agreements, unless the respec-
tive loan contracts stipulate otherwise (the loans have been made
initially to the Government with the proceeds reloaned to ENEE on
conditions different from those in the initial loan agreement);
- to carry out all those steps necessary for the restructuring of ENES'e
debt with bilateral and other credit institutions, the object being
to reduce the level of future debt service payments to match the future
financing capacity of ENEE;
- to carry out all legal changes necessary to ensure that the GOH and its
various agencies begin making payments for electric energy consumed.
GOH shall: (i) include in its budget the resources necessary to pay
for this service; (ii) make payment to ENEE based on established
terms; (LiL) ensure that its decentralized agencies make payments for
electricity service; and (iv) establish a system of compensation such
that in the event of non-payment by GOH there is a corresponding re-
duction of debt service or taxes owed the GOH by ENEE$



- 72 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 5
- to support ENEE in its efforts to discontinue service to customers,
public or private, who do not make timely payments. In the event that
GOH orders ENEE not to discontinue service, GOH shall make payment
directly for such service through operation of system of compensation;
- to help ENEE meet the following financial targets: (i) cash operating
margins 83% in 1991-2; 82% in 1993; and 80% in 1994; (ii) contribution
to expansiont not less than 25% beginning in 1993 and thereafter; (iii)
debt-service coverage: not less than 1.0 times in 1991-92, and 1.1
times thereafter; (iv) days outstanding for accounts receivable: not
greater than 120 days for 1992, 90 days for 1993 and 60 days for all
years thereafter; and (v) debt/equity ratio: not greater than 67/33.
Expansion Program
- to assure that in the selection of projects, the investment program
of the electric sector is based strictly on economic principles and
financial criteria. Rural electrification projects with a high social
content will be undertaken only if ENEE receives corresponding
financial compensation from the GOH or its agencies;
- to define and implement norms and regulations for protecting
the environment from the adverse impact of power projects. These norms
and regulations will: be defined by those agencies and institutions of
the GOH charged by law with this function; and apply to the prepara-
tion, implementation, and execution of power projects. Also, it would
help if a program were developed to protect watershed areas. This
program should also address the problems of resettlement, environ-
mental protection, erosion, and sedimentation.
B. COMMITMENTS BY ENEE
3.        Set forth below are those actions which ENEE shall take to achieve
the objectives of the ESAP:
Nanaaement
- to proceed with MORP, based on the attached terms of reference.
- to introduce the debt-management program established by the Ministry
of Finance and Public Credit (SHCP) under the auspices of the United
Nations;
- to introduce a plan for rationalizing the human-resource function,
the object of this exercise being to increase the productivity of
ENEE. The rationalization exercise would include the following:
quantifying personnel requirements by area, defining functions and
responsibilitiee; establishing qualifications required to carry out
the job, plus a system of performance evaluation; and ranking salar-
ies and responsibilities. Following such rationalization, there will



- 73 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 5
be reassignment, training, and reduction of staff (through such means
as retirement or termination of temporary contracts). Based on the
recommendations of MORP, goals will be established, together with the
corresponding target dates for implementing those goals.
Financial
- to implement the FRP, which aims at achieving the financial targets
to which the GOH has committed itself (see above), plus an improving
rate of return on net average operating assets;
- to improve its efficiency by reducing losses, by increasing the
number of consumers per employee, and by meeting the secondary
indicators of performance;
- to define with the different agencies of the GOH the amount of long-
term debt (owed by ENEE to bi-lateral and other institution.) which
ahall be restructured. In the event that this is not carried out,
to define with the GOH the amounts and terms of ENEE's long-term
debt which the GOH shall restructurel
- to implement beginning in 1991 a program for reducing accounts
receivable, including a timetable for its execution. This program
would permit days outstanding for accounts receivable to be reduced to
60 days by 1994;
- to prepare on a timely basis those studies necessary to design and
implement a tariff structure based on strict economic principles
with adequate allowance for financial needs. To obtain required
approval for the timely implementation of the results of these
studies;
Oneration and Maintenance
- to improve operational efficiency and planning in accordance with
an agreed timetable by:
(a) establishing operational and maintenance eystems and procedures
controlling all parts of the ENEE system; (b) developing methodologies
for planning the operation of the national electric system; (c) im-
plementing a rehabilitation program to improve the efficiency and
availability of generation plants; and (d) executing a program of
loss reduction for the transmission-distribution system.
The results of implementing (a) through (d) above should be the improve-
ment of the operational efficiency of the electric system as measured by: in-
dices pertaining to the frequency and duration of outages, transmission and
distribution losses, and availability and efficiency of generating plants.



- 74 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 5
Exiansion Prociram
- to define an investment program which, based on economic principles,
represents the least-cost solution and which would be financially
viable, within the limitations imposed by the situation of the country
and the company. To this end, ENEE would carry out studies according
to an agreed timetable concerning: (a) optimizing the use of the hydro
resources of Lake Yojoa and the reservoir at El Cajon; (b) the feasi-
bility of the more attractive options (hydro and thermal) to be in-
cluded in the long-term generation expansion plan; (c) expanding the
transmission and sub-transmissions systems in the medium- and long-
term.
- to execute generation rehabilitation programs which are economically
justified in order to make the most efficient use of existing installa-
tions;
- to execute efficiently and on schedule the works included in the in-
vestment plan agreed between the Government, ENEE, and the Association
and IDB. Further, to execute, within ENEE's area of responsibility, a
program to protect watershed areas, plus related programs for resettle-
ment, the environment, erosion, and sedimentation.
C. DURATION OF THE CP
The CP shall have a life of four (4) years. It can be suspended by mutual
agreement among the parties; and depending on circumstances outside the con-
trol of ENEE and GOH, it shall be subject to annual evaluations and partial
revisions with the approval of the Association and the IDB.
D. VERIFICATION AND C4MPLIANCE WITH THE CP
GOH and INEE agree to the following mechanisms and procedures for
evaluating compliance with the commitments set forth above and for providing
"follow up" on the actions and agreements set forth in the CP.
(a) GcO designates the PURC as supervisor of the CP, who shall be responsible
for monitoring performance and compliance with the CP.
(b) 3NE3 etall prepare quarterly progress reports within 15 days after the
end of each quarter to show the progress achieved during the immediately past
quarter with respect to the plans and programs for the different indicators of
performance and the degree of compliance achieved with respect to the various
goals established.
(c) The supervisor shall evaluate the progress report with ENEE and COH
within 30 days after the end of the qulrter. GOH and ENE3 shall take
immediate measures to permit correction in the event of instances of non-
compliance. Further, they shall send a copy of the progress report to the
Bank, together with a written copy of the corresponding evaluation and the
measures proposed to permit compliance.



75                                           mNIEX VI
ATrFACHM4I
HONDURAS
ENERGY SECOR ADJUSTrENT OPERATION
CONTRACrPLAN  /
usomem at ya end (thousand)                 1    322       346 1    3791    4131    4411    467
Iesal0Gwb.).naatlonl                -       .1   149.2 1_ 598 1   1;717l    1,8211   1,915 1    2,008
,   1                           .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~308   209 | 3         
-tot ___l0                                    1,807     L750      1,8211   L915      2,008
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,3291  3,2201  -3220L3 s _.n
utmers per employe e                                                  22        20        17
o    per omplsjv               1    ~~~~~~~~97 1 108 l1           in 1 12   1411      151
utae duration (hous)                            15.0     13.0      1101    10.0         9.0      9.0
l aia iof power plants  4%yoi                 971       971      901       97i       971       971
L             ~~~~~~~~-thamal               61  S  61    7sl               57  7SL   7SI
wAerage price,ntercoun. System (Lp*/wh)         207       317       426      478       494       509
teoofReturnr%)                           I    2.20      S.10     6.90      7.40      7.0S      7.40
opraig  agin M                             o       83%)o                          o       s
lf4ina-ncing ratio(%)                         -80.1       0.       10.0     35.0      3S.0      35.0
hitservice coverage ratio                      0.50      1.00     1.00      110       120       120
PLW!equiraiofein                                          67/33     6733          60/406
USoetioft peraio (da                                                       60e4
1/ Sonmc of the perfonnance targets under the contract plan exced the conmitments under the MDA suppot  plan.



- 76 -                          ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 5
HONDURAS
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
ENEE'S FlNANCIAL REAILITATION PLAN
In-t-rodugti
To reverse the deteriorating trend of the past and to overcome the
critical financial situation in the power subsector, the Government of
Honduras (GON) and the national Dower company (ENEE) have agreed to implement
a Financial Rehabilitation Plan (PRP) under the following conditions:
Electricity Pricing.   The key element of the FRP is to set and maintain
electricity prices in line with long-run marginal costs (LRMC). For this
purpose, the GOB implemented in June 1991 a nominal tariff increase of 24.3Z
which would bring the average level to about 80S of LRMC, and through gradual
increases to reach 90S by end 1991 and 100% by end 1992. The electricity
price setting mechanism would also include an automatic adjustment clause to
take due account of rate of exchange variations beyond what is presently
assumed. Under these conditions, and based on Bank inflation and exchange
rate projections, the average electricity price would be, in US$/MWhs 55.0 in
1991, 69 in 1992, 75 in 1993 and thereafter.
Dobt Restructuring. The GOH has reached agreement with its Paris Club
creditors for debt restructuring and such agreement has affected ENEE
favorably as the accumulated arrears at the end of 1990 (about US$177 million)
has been substantially reduced (to about US$20 million) and the future debt
service payments have been set under a pattern which is in line with internal
fund generation.
Equity Contrlbution. Since the financial rehabilitation of ENEE will be
a process to be implemented over time, the actions taken on electricity
pricing and debt restructuring will not Le enough during 1991 to fully restore
the financial soundness of ENEE and an equity contribution of US$100 million
will be made by the GOH to solve such a situation. Such equity contribution
will have the additional advantage of strengthening the capital structure of
ENEE and reducing the future debt service payments.
GOBIENEE Comercial Relations. The FRP establishes a scheme of
financial discipline regarding the commercial relations between the GOH and
ENE, which are an integral part of the contract-plan between both
institutions. Main actions include: (a) GOH to start paying its electrici.ty
bills beginning January 1, 1991; (b) settlement of mutual arrears; and (c)
establishment of a clearing-house mechanism for the electricity bills of the
GOB and its agencies.
Income Statement
Under the above conditions and based on conservative demand projections
between 1990 and 1994 (average growth of 1.62 p.a.), the profitability of ENEE
would improve as its rate of return on net fixed assets which was 2.2X in 1990



- 77 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 5
is expected to increase to 5.0% in 1991 and reach a peak of 7.4% in 1994.
The corresponding operating margin, i.e., the percentage of revenues left
after covering operating costs, would increase from 23% in 1990 to 54? in
1994, and the cash operating margin (including depreciation) would increase
from 722 in 1990 to not less than 80% between 1991 and 1994. The above
results are expected, among other factors, because of significant increases in
labor productivity as the employee per consumer ratio would increase from 97
in 1990 to 141 in 1994 and the total cost of labor would decrease from 152 of
operating revenues to 82 during the same period. Fuel, however, would exhibit
an opposite trend as it was 1% in 1990 and would reach about 52 of operating
revenues in 1994 as thermal units come on stream to complement the existing
hydro generation. (Table 1 to this annex gives ENEE's Projected Income
Statement.)
Flow of Funds
The FRP also shows improvements in the projected flow of funds
statement, as a consequence of the actions of the GOH and ENEE. Internal fund
generation will grow steadily and result in a debt service coverage ratio
which would increase from 0.5 times in 1990 to 1.0 in 1992 and at least 1.2 in
1994 and thereafter. While the latter may at first not be very impressive,
the balance left after covering debt service would result in a significant
contribution to investment, which is expected to exceed 39% in 1993 and
beyond, and which can be considered satisfactory for a power utility of ENEE's
characteristics. However, this indicator by itself should not create
optimistic expectations as one of the main reasons for its high level is the
reduced investment program which was designed under strict least-cost
principles and based on conservative demand projections. Should investment be
higher, the contribution would be weaker. Another factor which could affect
the fupding mix would be the terms and conditions for new borrowings which,
under the FRP, have been considered in line with those of multilateral
development institutions. (Table 2 to this annex gives ENEE's PrM'ected Flow
of Funds).
Balance Sheet
The commitments on the part of tha GOH to pay and cause its agencies to
pay electricity bills, in conjunction with better commercial practices on the
part of ENEE, are expected to reduce the collection period from about 302
billing days in 1990 to 60 in 1994. Such reduction in the collection period
would mean a decreasing current ratio which would move from 1.2 times in 1990
to 0.6 times in 1994, which reflects better financial management and is
adequate for a power utility of ENEE's characteristics.
ENEE's capital structure would also improve as the debtlequity ratio
decreases from 75125 in 1990 to 65135 in 1991 and 54/46 in 1994, a clear
indication of the recuperation of ENEE's finances and a solid foundation for
future challenges in investment. (Table 3 to this annex gives ENEE's
Projected Balance Sheet.)



- 78 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 5
HONDURAS
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet 1/
(million Lempiras)
Fixed Assets         -           ~ 5,207      6,305     7,022    7,306     7,703
Gross Plant in Operai,on            6,500     7,958     8,941    9,813    10,541
Less. Accumulated Depreciation     (1,669)   (2,197)   (2,587)   (2,94"    (3,376)
Net Ptant In Operation              4,831     5,761     6,354     6,868    7,145
Work in Progress                      376       544      668       438       558
Other Assets                     1      26       62         9        67       196
Deferred Charges                       15       13                             7
Other Assets                      _         1   49         O        58       189
Current AAsst                          405      399       360       339       287
Cash and Banks                         41       22        25        23 2__
Accounts Reeivable                    278       297      246       218       157
Inventories                            86       80        89        s8      (106)
Equity                               1,406     2,381     2,760    3,117     3,632
Capital Stock                         765       966      966       966       966
Reained Eamings                         7       43       223       457       748
Revaluation Reserve                   634     1,372     1,571     1,694    1,918
Net Long-Term Debt                   2,927     3,920     4,166    4,116     4,013
Plus: Currert Portion                 212      340        337      349       410
Total Long-Term Debt                3,139     4,260     4,503     4,465    4,423
OteD L_abliti3e                        973       1 7_1_8             20        22
Curren Labfties                        332      444 _       7       45_       519
Curren Potn Lo-Term deb               212      341       338       349       410
1r_t Payable                           33       45        52        52        52
AcoounftsPay"be                        26       22        22        22        22
CwwomSta + oom acLpay.                 61       40        35        36        35
1/ 190 actuaL 1991-94 proJected.
2/ Includes proectd fund surpluses assumed to be converted to securties.
3/ In 1990 kt ncides arras on debt



- 79 -                             ANNEX VII
HONDURAS                             Page 4 of 5
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA ELECTRICA (ENEE)
Actual and Forecast Income Statements 1/
(million Lempiras)
Operating Revenues                         336     571      748     881      957
Electricity Sales                         331     565      742     874      950
Other Revenue                               5       6        6       7        7
Operating Expenses                         258     306      343     401      436
Labor                                      Si      60               72       77
Fuel 2/                                     5       7       10      37       46
Other Op. & Maint. Costs                   38      3        414              48
Depreciation & Amortization               164     201      226     247      265
Net Operating Income                        78     265      405     480      521
Non-Operating Income (Net)                  26       3        3       3        3
Income Before Interest                     1_      268      4                524
Interest Charged to Operations             171     258      271     248      233
Interest on Debt                          182     270      313     314      314
o ExIsting                                182     218      271     248      233
o Future                                    0      1'       42      66       81
o on Arrears and Refinan. Loan              0      40        0       0        0
Less: Interest During Construction         11      12       42      66       81
Losses from Exchange Rate Fluctuations     210                 _    _
NET INCOME                               (2772     10      137     235      291
1/1990: actual; 1991-1994: projected
2/ Fuel prieks are assumed to be constant in real terms. Sharp Increases in 1993-94 reflect renewed
dependence on thermal generation.



- 80 -
ANNEX VII
HONDURAS                          Page 5 of 5
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ENERGIA (ENEE)
Actual and Forecast Fund Flow Statements I/
(million Lempiras)
Gross Internal Fund Generation            269       469    634      730     789
Net Operating Income                      79      265     405      480     521
Depreclation & Amortization              164      201     226      247     265
Other Income (Expenses)                   26        3       3        3       3
Debt senivce                              (494)            (654)   1652)
Exstng                                  (412)   (4J5      (612)   (586)   (571)
a  incipal                               (218)   (239    (341)   (338)   (338)
o Interest Paid                          (194)   (218)   (271)   (248)   (23)
New Foreign                               (0)    (12)    (42)        6      (92)
oPrincipa                                  0        0       0        0      (12)
o Interest Paid                            ()    (12)    (42)    (66)    (80)
Arrears (Multilaterals)                 J8)    (152)       0        0       0
Net lntemal Fund Generation              (225)   (152)    (21)       78     126
Grants                                      0       26      43        0       0
Equl Coributions (Govt)                   394      201       0        0       0
BorrovAngs                                197      243     318      126     131
Exdg197                                          0000
Future                                     O      243 1 318        126     131
loom LkabilW ncream                          O       2       O        2       2
1 _  ~~Progra                           2S12    306      432     168      179
;=cro     ce) In Working Capta             74       11       38              6
Supk  Deit) of Funds                      -          3      (S3)     60     134
Aocmkuted Swpkus (Det:it)             O_             3      (5       10     144
/ 1190: actual; 1991-1994: proected



- 81 -                          Annex VIII
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
PROGRAM FOR THE LIBERALIZATION OF DOWNSTREAM PETROLEUM MARKET
1.        Objective
To deregulate the refining, importation, export, storage, transport
and wholesale and retail distribution of petroleum products including LPG,
asphalt, lubricant and others with the objective of obtaining a better
allocation of resources and introducing more efficiency and transparency to
the sector.
2.        ImDlementation Program
The current plans for the hydrocarbon subsector provide for the
liberalization of the petroleum market in two phases:
-    First Phase, will include:
(i) A pricing mechanism to set prices to reflect the
opportunity cost of petroleum products, while simulating
those that would prevail in a deregulated market to be
implemented in the second phase.
(ii) Allowing refiners, distributors and major consumers to
directly import petroleum products and/or crude oil.
-    Second Phase:  (Liberalization), will imply:
Total deregulation of refining, importation, exportation,
transportation and wholesale/retail distribution of petroleum
products through the decontrol of retail prices and removal of
entry barriers to the petroleum market.
3.        Plan of Action
First Phase:
(a) To allow private bulk oil terminal companies to operate under
industry standards, making sure that they have the freedom to
operate their installations and set their tariffs to third
parties as regulated by market conditions. Their operating
contracts should not impose on the Government or third parties
the obligation to rent their facilities.
(b) The Central Bank must establish transparent and non-
discriminatory rules to have access to foreign exchange for
the importation of petroleum products/crude.



- 82 -
Annex VIII
Page 2 of 3
(c) The Administrative Petroleum Commission (CAP) must establish a
pricing mechanism for maximum ex-refinery prices based on the
import parity concept (defined by an agreed FOB price of a
representative market, freight, insurance, import tariffs,
unloading, and storage).
(d) The pricing mechanism, ex-refinery, referred to above in items
(c), requires elimination of current procedures, including
setting refinery margins. Following such elimination, profits
and losses will be a consequence of the refinery's costs vis-
a-vis import parity prices. Under this structure, the
refinery will have total operational freedom (level of
utilization, refining or importing products). This structure
will simulate the operation of a refinery in a competitive
market.
(e) To abolish the export tax for petroleum products (currently
for fuel oil) in a consistent way with the structural
adjustment program being carried out by the Government. This
would allow the refinery to compete in equal conditions with
imported products.
(f) To make explicit in the pricing structure, specific taxes to
the consumer, including amount per gallon and mechanism for
readjustment.
(g) To make explicit in the pricing structure the level of
subsidies by products; and to define a program for their
gradual elimination to make prices reflect their economic
cost.
(h) To establish a pricing structure for petroleum products,
allowing their automatic adjustment every time that the
variations in the variables used for their determination bring
a change in the price to the consumer greater than S.
Specifically, in this structure the price would be indexed to
the exchange rate, and the distribution margins (wholesale,
transport, and retail) to the indexes representing costs and
investments (CPI, Wage Index, etc.)
Second Phase
(a) To review and modify the legislation and norms for the
construction and operation of oil storage facilities,
transport and distribution of petroleum products. (Article 11
and Decree 319, Article 117 and Decree 1276 in the Hydrocarbon
Law). The objectives to achieve through this modification
are:



- 83 -
Annex VIII
Page 3 of 3
(M)       To be transparent and non discriminatory;
(ii)      To have streamlined and safe procedures to authorize
the installation of gas stations and bulk storage
facilities.
(iii)     To allow an easy entrance and exit to the market and
free competition.
(b)  Specifically, the amendments must exclude from the regime of
operation contracts (Hydrocarbon Law) the construction and
operation of petroleum bulk terminals.
(c)  To establish the decontrol of retail prices, including
imports, refining, transportation, wholesales and retail
distribution, through the elimination of petroleum products
from the lict of controlled prices in Article 30, Decree
41-89.



- 84 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: three years
(b) Project prepared by: Ministries of Public Works, Economy, Finance,
Planning, Central Bank and ENEE
(c) Departure of Appraisal Mission: January 1991
(d) Completion of Negotiations: September 1991
(e) Planned Date for Effectiveness: December 1991
Section II: Special ImDlementation Action
None
Section IIIs Special Conditions
Special conditions of effectiveness include: (i) maintenance of a
supportive macroeconomic framework (psra.48); (ii) approval of legislation by
the Honduran Congress modifying the membership composition of the Public
Utilities Regulatory Commission (para.62); and (iii) that all public sector
agencies are current in the payment of their electricity bills from January
let 1991 on.
Tranche Release Conditions
(1)       Conditions for Release of Second Tranche:
(a)       GOB to maintain a supportive macroeconomic framework (pars. 48);
(b)       GOB to complete and furnish to IDA the interfuel substitution study
(para. 59);
(c)       GOH to issue and implement satisfactory guidelines for electricity
subsector, consistent with agreed pricing policy, and satisfactory
performance of PURC (para. 62) and NEC (para. 57);



- 85 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
(d)       GOH to hire consultants for the second phase of the institutional
reform study and present a satisfactory action plan to implement
before third tranche release institutional reforms recommended by
study (para. 62);
(e)       Satisfactory implementation of an action plan by GOH and ENEE to
improve operational and financial performance, which includes: (i)
implementation of the contract plan and achieving its targets
(para. 63); (ii) completion of the diagnostic phase of MORP (para.
71); (iii) achievement of efficiency and staffing targets (para.
71); (iv) implementation of short-term measures to reduce
electricity losses (para. 72); (iv) submission of 1992 updated
investment plan consistent with adopted principles (para. 77); (v)
achievement of financial targets of the FRP (para. 81); and (vi)
compliance with plan to settle mutual arrears (para. 83);
(f)       GOH and ENEE to implement tariff adjustments as agreed (para. 86);
(g)       GOH to hire consultants for petroleum exploration and
liberalization process and satisfactory completion of first stage
of PLP (paras. 91, 94-95, Annex VIII); and
(h)       COH to submit satisfactory regulations for environmental protection
with respect to petroleum exploration (para. 99).
(ii)      Conditions for Release of the Third Tranche
(a)       GOH to maintain supportive macroeconomic framework and electricity
price subsidy program phased out (paras. 48 and 87);
(b)       GOH to submit satisfactory final version of interfuel
substitution study, including a satisfactory action plan to
implement the study's recommendations (para. 59).
(c)       Satisfactory performance of PURC (para. 62) and NEC (para. 57);
(d)       GOH to implement satisfactory institutional reforms (para. 62);
(e)       Satisfactory implementation of action plan by GOH and ENEE to
improve operational and financial performance, which includes: (i)
implementation of the contract plan and achieving its targets
(para. 63); (ii) implementation of MORP (para. 71); (iii)
achievement of efficiency and staffing targets (para. 71);
submission of 1993 updated investment plan consistent with adopted
principles (para. 77); (iv) ENEE to achieve financial targets of
the FRA (para. 81) and (v) compliance with plan to settle mutual
arrears (para. 83);
(f)       GOH and ENEE to implement tariff adjustments as agreed (para. 86);



- 86 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
(g)       GOH to complete second stage of PLP, i.e., liberalization of oil
products at retail level (para. 95); and
(h)       GOH to enact environmental regulations with respect to petroleum
exploration (para. 99).
(iii)     Events of Default
(a)       Adherence to a least-cost investment program for electric power
expansion, including the costs to mitigate any negative impact on
the environment and to take adequate consideration of the
resettlement of population affected (para. 76).
(b)       Failure to comply with the procedures agreed upon in the guidelines
for operations and investments or modifications to the guidelines
without the Bank's approval (para. 98)



Gol Of ,.,o                                         Atlantic   O c e a                                               .
-    P.eIto ColtesCMCr
'OP?TES          >ATLANT,D
GUAT,vAALA                                  a ETe  EMJ
-,  LAPLIERT                   . ~~~~~~~....COYOLES M/t                     ~        5.
..               ~~~RACiAS
CERRO MAL IN    0         8VML5
BARBARA                             (CASOL5
....  so'T B hIAE bb                                                                                  0L,,,v-I0
dfo CO8on  ..D  ..                                                                                  .O'
Coooyo~.aFRANCISCO                                                                                   .
MORAZAN             ..0
L E PAPi RA                                                             .~ SJ~0
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
EL PARAISO 
LA PAZSNA                           GMRAL'>'                                                            .'NICARAGUA   ~
14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
EL SALVADOR                                           ....                                                     HONDURAS
MLIrnE0                                                                     Electric System
'VAc            T WE CA.                    36Hro m8wstti~ons                       Rivers
lwdocoi.'.o6i                MD Diesel Power sttales           ..... DePOitmeni  ondre
4$Ioiit.c Ocean                                    uteco   ''.,*GaDs turbin power stations                           -_   Iinternatiofll boundaies
'I  .~~~~~~~~~                      A    ~~~~subttifons
MExiC0/'~'-    Car. bbean  Le                                                                                  RNt)SINLNS
-   BELaZE3
Ai. , ofS000fll~*f                                                                                         230 ond 138 Wi
.'GLVATEMI "L                                                                    _J. .'.i No o-    3S clo4A9 kV
EL SALVO            ALi                           'i0,
c, f c            AiAA              i4Rd8'0~0                                                    20     40      60      so      100 0           2 0         40                    7
.0.flf44  000400



