Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  10679
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1317-CE)
MAY 29, 1992
Rep,rt- !X.-,. 3r:!679-C L   Ty,po   (i''R)
l~CfAL.D2'O)i, / X3 137 i  ,' ':P  /Z 'T)hIDDI)
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Sta'f Appraisal Report (1982)        -           US$1 = SL Rs 21
Average 1983-1989                                US$1 - SL Rs 28.8
Completion Year Average (1990)       -           US$1 - SL Rs 40.1
ABLREVIATIONS
ADB         Asian Development Bank
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FD          Forest Department
FINNIDA     Finnish International Development Agency
FMP         Forestry Master Plan
FPU         Forestry Planning Unit
FRDP        Forest Resources Development Project
FSDP        Forest Sector Development Project
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOSL         overnment of Sri Lar.ka
IDA         International Development Association
M.Sc.       Master of Science Degree
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PCR         Project Completion Report
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
STC         State Timber Corporation
UNDP        United Nations Development Pzogramme
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
USJ         University of Sri Jayawardenapura
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Drector-General
Opefatins Evaluaton
May 29, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on SRI LANKA
Forest Resources Development Proiect (Credit 1317-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Performance Audit Report on Sri Lanka - Forest Resources Development
Project (Credit 1317-CE)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOREST r1.SOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1317-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE . . ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .                        1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     1
Background   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .                     2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      2
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     3
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     4
IDA Performance ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  7
Borrower Performance   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Project RelaUionship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     8
Consulting Services  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  8
Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     9
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . .                    11
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    17
Related Bank Operations ....  .            .    . .....  .     .  .  .    .   17
Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     17
Credit Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .                     18
Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   19
Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .                     21
A. Project Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         21
B.  Project Financing ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  21
Project Results and Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    22
A.   Project Results ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
B.   Studies  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
Status of Covenants ....  .            .  .  .    .....  .   .  .  .  .    .  25
Use of Bank Resources ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
A.   Staff Inputs   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  26
B.  Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   27
MAP        IBRD 16518
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA    I
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1317-CE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Forest Resources
Development Project, for which Credit 1317-CE in the amount of SDR 8.5 million
(US$9 million) was approved on January 18, 1983. The loan was cofinanced by
FINNIDA for US$2.44 million. The Credit closed on December 31, 1990 after an
extension of one year, with disbursements amounting to SDR 4,568,987.93 (US$5.6
million) (54 percent of the credit). A balance cf SDR 3,931,012.07 remained
unspent and was cancelled as of March 13, 1992.1/
The PCR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program mission which
visited Sri Lanka in March 1991, revised by the Agricultural Division of the Asia
Technical Department (Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II), and reviewed
by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department III, South Asia
Region. A copy of the PCR was sent to the Finnish International Development
Agency (FINNIDA) with the request that their comments be received by October 13,
1991. To date, FINNIDA has not replied to IDA.
The PCR is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report, Development
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, and project files. This report is also
based on discussions with Government staff and World Bank personnel familiar with
the project, and data collected during the PCR mission's field visit.
I/    The Credit Account was kept open pending receipt of an outstanding balance
in the Special Account. This refund was received on March 13, 1992.



- i_ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FORFST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1317-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the Forest Resources Development Project
(FRDP) were to: (a) provide Sri Lanka with a strategy for the development of
its forestry sector through the formulation of a Forestry Master Plan and a
Five-Year Investment Program; (b) strengthen the Government's forestry
training capability, through the establishment of a two-year postgraduate
university course for professional foresters and technical training courses
for forest guards and rangers; (c) establish 8,000 ha of industrial
plantations and manage 10,000 ha of teak plantations as well as carrying out
silvicultural treatments over 15,000 ha of young stands of teak, pine and
eucalyptus; (d) carry out various species/provenance and land
clearance/preparation trials.
2.        Total project costs over six years were estimated at US$15 million
of which US$9 million was to be financed through an IDA credit (mainly for
plantations), US$2.4 million through Finnish aid (technical assistance) and
US$3.6 million by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL). A Forestry Planning
Unit (FPU) was established in the Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and Mahaweli
Development and was given responsibility for overall project implementation.
The Forest Department (FD), also part of the Ministry, was to be in charge of
the plantation activities, forest management and technical training. The
University of Sri Jayawardenapura (USJ) was to provide university training.
Although the FRDP was basically considered an institution-building project, an
economic rate of return (ERR) of 20% was calculated in the staff appraisal
report (SAR) for the investments directly related to the plantation
establishment (40% of project costs).
Implementation ExRerience
3.        The implementation of the project was severely hampered by the
political disturbances in Sri Lanka at the time. The existing Forestry
Institute in China Bay was closed in 1985 for security reasons and the
training courses for forest rangers and guards were practically suspended
until a new institute was built with USAID and IDA funds in 1989 at Nuwara
Eliya. The disturbances also caused the temporary closure of all universities
in 1989 resulting in a shortage of candidates for the university courses in
forestry at the USJ. In addition, of the four selected districts of
Batticaloa, Amparai, Hambantota and Moneragala, the plantation activities in
the first two had to be suspended in 1987. Because of the disturbances and to



- iv -
provi-.e a smooth transition with the follow-up project (Forest Sector
Dev.relopment Project, Cr. 2043-CE), the credit closing date was extended by one
year, up to December 31, 1990.
Results
4.        The project achieved the objective of providing Sri Lanka with a
perspective development plan for its forestry sector. The Forestry Master
Plan (FMP) and the Five-Year Investment Program provided GOSL with a sense of
direction in the development of its forestry sector, but drew strong criticism
from various interest groups in "ri Lanka and elsewhere (mainly non-
governmental organizations and universities) for not attending to
environmental aupects (Part I, para. 12). A detailed forest inventory was
prepared covering 278,000 ha of natural forest in the wet zone and 98,000 ha
of established plantations in both the wet and dry/intermed.'ate zones.
Moreover, an indicative inventory was carried out for over 340,000 ha of
natural forest area in the dry zone. On the basis of the inventory, the FPU
set up a computerized forest management system which was transferred to the FD
in 1988 (Part I, para. 13). However, only one FD officer, who subsequently
left in 1990, was trained to use the system. As a result, the data base has
only been updated sporadically since then. The management plans prepared for
wet zone forests require revision. GOSL's forestry training capability was
effectively increased, although not to the extent expected due to the
political disturbances (Part I, para. 14). The shortage in training has had
an adverse effect on the implementation of other components.
5.        As regards education, a two-year university degree program has been
established at USJ under which 73 M.Sc. candida_es graduated during the
project period. IDA's involvement in technical training was limited to
provision of some civil works for the Forestry School at China Bay. However,
after the closing of this school due to civil disturbances, IDA increased its
support to the new training facility at Nuwara Eliya completed in 1989.
6.        The plantation activities are difficult to assess because of FD's
reluctance to maintain adequate records. Contrary to expectations at
appraisal, the bulk of plantation benefits came from management of existing
rather than establishment of new plantations (see para. 7). Between 7,000 and
8,000 ha of industrial plantations were established but the average survival
rate is estimated to be only around 50%. This low survival rate is due to a
failure to develop appropriate technical packages for the dry zone where most
of the plantations are located. Also, 6,200 ha of teak plantations were
thinned and silvicultural treatments were carried out over 21,800 ha of young
stands, including the teak plantations established under the project. The
trials that were carried out led to the development of some readily useable
technical packages. These, and other practical findings were incorporated
into the follow-up project.
7.        The final project cost is estimated at US$10.20 million or 68% of
the SAR estimate. The disbursement shortfall is due to the political
disturbances as well as to the depreciation of the rupee against the US$ -
close to 50% over the implementation period - and depreciation of the US$



-v -
against the SDR. The SAR's ERR of 20% was only for plantation establishment.
The ex-post ERR for this component is lower, about 10%. However, the project
has generated large benefits due to silvicultural treatment of existing
plantations, both in terms of immediate benefits from production of wood and
future benefits from stand improver. nt.
Sustainability
8.          The project has achieved its main objectives, and its achievements
appear sustainable. First, FPU has been formally established as an integral
part of the Ministry of Lands, Ivrigation and Mahaweli Development (MLIMD) and
is currently in charge if guiding, reviewing and monitoring all forestry
programs. Second, FD .ias adopted the forest resource management system and is
expected to have full control in implementing it by the completion of the
Forest Sector Development Project (para. 3). Third, the teaching cadre of
forestry courses at USJ has been strengthened as staff sent overseas have been
returning and joining the faculty after completing their postgraduate
education. Fourth, lessons from the failures in establishing plantations have
been acknowiedged and more appropriate technology is now adopted. bnder these
circumstances, the systems and technologies initiated and developed under the
project are expected to be sustained in the long term. Fifth, a new technical
training facility has been established at a new location and is now fully
operational, which should provide for the training of an adequate number of
staff in the future.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.          The success of plantation activities depended heavily on the
development of technical packages and performance of selected species, about
which past experience was limited. In spite of acknowledgement of this risk
a_ appraisal, ambitious plantation targets were adopted. Three sites were
selected for plantation establishment. Two of these sites had to be closed
due to civil disturbances. When new investment opportunities were identified.
by forest inventories, the Government requested IDA agreement to expand the
plantation program to new areas. This required amendment of the DCA and took
some time. The appraisal team should have anticipated such development and
provided flexibility in site sclection   subject to agreed investment
criteria.
10.       With hindsight, most of the public criticism of the Master Plan
could have been avoided if a transparent planning process had been maintained.
GOSL could have involved the public at various stages of Plan formulation.
The draft plan was made public when completed, but this was too late to change
previously formed opinions.  Although GOSL later on arranged a series of
seminars and workshops open to the public, criticism persisted until a
dialogue was established during the processing of the follow-up project.
Similarly, FD should have been involved sooner and more directly in the
establishment of the forest management system.
11.       Introduction of a computerized data base and decision-making system
has proven to be a remarkably successful method for introducing dynamism and
professionalism into a previously dormant Forest Department. However,
maintenance of high-tech management systems requires a longer technical
assistance effort than was actually provided.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOREST?RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1317-CE)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name                  Forest Resources Development Project
Credit No.                    1317-CE
Vice Presidential Unit        South Asia (SA3AG)
Country                       Sri Lanka
Sector                        Agriculture
Sub-sector                :  Forestry
Background
1.        Although Sri Lanka's forestry sector accounts for only 5% of GDP
(including industrial wood processing), forestry products are still the main
source of energy, representing around 70X of total energy consumption. Total
forest areas are estimated at 2.5 million ha or 40% of the country, as opposed
to 46% in 1956. This decline is due primarily to the clearing of land for
agricultural development but also to illicit felling and shifting cultivation.
Practically all the forest resources are owned by the Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) and, so far, have been managed primarily for timber production. The
Ministry of Lands, Irrigation and .Mahaweli Development (MLIMD) is the main
institution responsible for forestry matters, through its Forest Department
(FD) in charge of forest and plantation management, its State Timber
Corporation (STC) in charge of wood harvesting in the state forests, and its
Department of Wildlife Management.
2.        IDA's involvement in the forestry sector started with the
preparation of a sector review in 1979 aimed at assisting GOSL in formulating
a development strategy for its forestry sector. The main constraints to
development identlfied by the review were a lack of reliable data, a shortage
of trained personnel, and an absence of planning and programming capability.
In order to overcome these constraints, and with UNDP funding, a Swedish
consulting firm was contracted to prepare the Forest Resources Development
Project (FRDP) in 1980. The GOSL requested the postponement of appraisal until
1982 due to budgetary constraints. IDA appraised the project in that year.



-2-
Project Objectives and Description
3.        Project Objectives:  The main objectives were:  (a) to provide Sri
Lanka with a strategy for the development of its forestry sector; (b) to
strengthen GOSL's forestry training capability; (c) to establish and manage
plantations as well as carry out silvicultural treatments; and (d) to
strengthen applied research programs.
4.        Project DescriRtiun:  The FRDP was to cover a six-year period (1983-
1988) and provide for:
(a) the reorganization of the Forestry and Environment Division of the
MLIMD into a Forestry Planning Unit (FPU) at the ministerial level;
(b) (i) the extension of an ongoing national forestry inventory project
which UNDP/FAO was financing; (ii) the formulation of a Forestry
Master Plan (20-year horizon) and a Five-Year Investment Program on
the basis of the inventory and of preliminary studies to be carried
out mainly in the fields of institutional development, logging and
transportation, marketing and demand; and (iii) the preparation of
operational forest management plans;
(c)  the establishment of a two-year postgraduate university course for
professional foresters ind technical training courses for fore t
guards and rangers;
(d) (i) the establishment of 8,000 ha of industrial plantations;
(ii) the management (thinnirg) of 10,000 ha of teak plantations;
(iii) the carrying out of silvicultural treatments over 15,000 ha of
young stands of teak, pine and eucalyptus; and (iv) the harvesting
and replanting of 1,000 he of over-mature eucalyptus stands; and
(e) the carrying out of various species and provenance trials, land
clearance and preparation trials.
5.        Total project costs over six years were estimated at US$15 million
of which 53% was for all plantation activities, 23% was for the formulation of
the Master Plan (including inventory and specific studies), 12% was for
university training and 12% was for other costs. US$9 million was to be
financed through the IDA credit (mainly fcè p.lantations), US$2.4 million by
the Finnish International Development Ageatcy (FINNIDA) in the form of
technical assistance mainly for the Master Plan, and US$3.6 million by GOSL
(salaries and 0&M). Although the FRDP was basically considered an institution
building project, an ERR of 20% was calculated in the SAR for the investments
directly related to the industrial plantations (40% of project costs).
Project Design and Organization
The project was primarily designed to address the main institutional
zonstraints identified by the 1979 Forestry Sector Review regarding
insufficient existing data and trained staff, and inadequate forestry
development plans. Although now well accepted, the inclusion of a Master Plan



-3-
and a Five-Year Investment Program in a de-Alopment project wa. innovative at
the baginning of the 1980s.l/  Also very positive was IDA's success in
coynincing lUNDP and FAO to expand their ongoing National Forest Inventory
Project, in order to better pave the way for the Master Plan.2. The
institution building components (including training) were conceptually clear
and well designed. To these components were added the site-specific
plantation establishment and management activities. The success of plantation
activities heavily depended on the development of technical packages and
performance of selected species, about which past experience was limited.
Despite acknowledging this risk at appraisal, ambitious plantation targets
were adopted. Limiting plantation activity -o selected districts and specific
sites was to ensure that site and species were matched and social, ecological
problems avoided.  However, project designers should have anticipate.' the i-eed
to expand plantation3 to other areas to maplement the findings of the foresc
inventory and prescriptions of the forest management plans.
7.        The FPU was established in the MLIMD at the ministerial level and
was responsible for the overall implementation of the project, particularly
the preparation of the Master Plan and the Five-Year Investment Program. The
FD was responsible for completing forest inventories, managing existing
plantations and establishing new plantations. The University of Sri
Jayawardenapura (USJ) was responsible for the education of professional
foresters. The decision to locate the FPU at the ministerial level was
appropriate. Although this arrangement has been resented by FD, it was
necessary to ensure political support for the Master Plan and the Five-Year
Investment Program to be developed by FPU. In fact, later when the Master
Plan was criticized by non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the Ministry
showed strong commitment to the development strategy presc.ibed by the Master
Plan. However, it took longer than expected for FD to adopt new forest
management systems. Ar. inter-ministerial Forestry Master Plan Steering
Committee was set up and proved effective in coordinating the participation of
all institutions involved in the preparation of the Master Plan.
Project Implementation
8.        Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up.  The IDA credit was
approved in J..luary 1983, one year later than planned, and became effective in
September 1983. The start of the project was slower than expected, due to
GOSL's severe budgetary constraints in 1984 and to the beginning cf the
political disturbances in 1985 (para. 9). Nevertheless, by the end of 1984
the FPU was in place and the USJ had iraduated 14 M.Sc. students.
Furthermore, the first-year plantation program met its area targets although
the survival rates werc very low (less than 50Z) because of drought and poor
nursery stocks.
1~./ In the fol.owing years, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) financed such
plans in other Asian countries.
/   In addition, GOSL retained the FAO expert for two more years by using IDA
funds through a cost-sharing arrangement.



-4-
9.        Implementation Schedule.  The implementation of the project, as well
as its achievements, were severely hampered by the political disturbances in
Sri Lanka at the time. The existing Forestry Institute in China Bay,
Trincomalri, was closed in 1985 for security reasons and the training courses
for forest rangars and guards were practically suspended until a new institute
was built with USAID/FRDP funds in Nuwara Eliya. It became cperational in
1990. The disturbances also caused the temporary closing of all universities
in 1989 resulting in a shortage of candidates for the forestry courses at the
USJ. The plantation work in two of the f.;ur districts selected (Batticaloa
and Amparai in the East) had to be informally suspended in 1987. In 1988, the
Devslopment Credit Agreement was modified L.o allow the financing of
plantations in all districts covered by the Master Plan. The SAR's intent for
restricting plantation establishment to specific sites was to ensure proper
site and species mix, to avoid conflicts with pastoral economies of rural
communities and to avoid sites within the catchments of small irrigation
reservoirs (tanks).
10.       Proiect Costs and Disburseuents.  The final cost of the project was
US$10.2 million equivalent or 68X o' the SAR estimate.  The closing date was
extended by one year, up to December 1990, to allow time for the completion of
the civil works and to provide a smooth transition to the follow-up - Forest
Sector Development Project (FSDP). Credit disbursements gr-dually built up
from 1% of the amount planned in FY84 to a cumulative 54% in FY91, or SDR 4.57
million (US$5.63 million equivalent or 63% of the original US$ total). -he
miain reasons for the low disbursements were the political disturbances
mentioned previously, the depreciation of the rupee against the 1JS$ (close to
50X over the project implementation period), and depreciation of the US$
against the SDR. Starting from 1986, another contributing factor was the
growth in unclaimed expenditures caused by a chronic shortage of accounting
staff in both FD and USJ..J
Project Results
l.       Proiect Objectives.  The project achieved its objective of providing
Sri Lanka with a perspective development plan for the forestry sector. This
development course is conscientiously supported by the Government. The Master
Plan also provides a benchmark for the public which shows a great interest in
forestry development. With the establishment of FPU, the Ministry has gained
full control over the aggregated development of the sector, both in terms of
its course and performance. FD improved its planning and programming
capability through the resource information system developed by the project.
The project has failed to develop technical packages to pave the way for the
establishment of large-scale plantations on the difficult sites in the dry
zone. This was mostly due to political disturbances and their consequences,
especially changes in plantation programs.  Technical assistance support in
the field of silviculture was also inadequate. Benefits generated from the
i/   Tne amount of the Special Account for the Project was consequently
increased from SDR 200,000 to SDR 500,000 to facilitate disbursements.



- 5 -
management and silvicultural treatment of existing plantations, however, more
than compensated fcr the decrease in benefits from new plantations. As a
result, the aggregated actual project benefits exceeded the appraisal
estimates. In the field of human resources development, the establishment of
a professional foresters' education facility was a gain to the sector.
However, the quality of education could be much better if the University would
utilize resources provided by the project more effectively. The closing of
the Forestry School at China Bay due to political disturbances has deprived
the sector of technical trf;ining since 1985. However, a new training facility
was built and became operational in 1990.
12.       Project Achievements.  As regards institutional strengthening, the
FPU was successfully established and is llow responsible for the implementation
of a follow-up project on a larger scale.A/ However, due to lack of a
proper monitoring and evaluation system, the real extent and state of the
plantation achievements could not be assessed at the closing of the project.
Both the Master Pl.an and the Five-Year Investment Program were completed in
1986, about one year later chan expected due to delays in finding suitable
local consultants for the preliminary studies. The Master Plan had certain
shortcomings; first, its analysis and recommendations for institutional
development of the sector were vague; second, its development projections for
the private sector were overly optimistic; and third, it did not sufficiently
stress environmental benefits coming from forest resources. On the latter
point, environmental NGOs and some scholars criticized the plan for being
insensitive to the environmental dimension of the forest resources. All of
these shortcomiings were addressed during the preparation and appraisal of the
follow-up Forest Sector Development Project. In retrospect, more emphasis
should have been placed on the environmental aspects of forest resources, most
of the public criticism could have been avoided if GOSL had involved the
public at various stages of Plan formulation, and IDA should have better
guided the planners to this ef,ect. However, in the early 1980s IDA's
perception of the environment and its coverage was much narrower than it is
today.
13.       A detailed forest inventory was prepared covering 278,000 ha of
natural forest in the wet zone and 98,000 ha of established plantations in
both the wet and dry/intermediate zones. Moreover, an indicative inventory
was carried out for over 340,000 ha of natural forest area in the
dry/intermediate zones. Thirteen management plans were prepared for natural
forests. These plans, however, were developed on the basis of the forested
areas rather than on annual yields, which would have been a more sustainable
approach. They must now be revised. Moreover, security problems prevented
the completion of many of the base maps necessary for the plantation
management plans. Nevertheless, staff produced 14 topographical maps covering
the 10 main plantation areas. In addition, FPU set up a computerized forest
management system using the data base created by the forest inventory. The
i/   It is also intended that the FPU will coordinate all future developmental
activities in the forestry sector.



- 6 -
system was transferred to FD in 1988 but only one person (a contract employee)
was trained to use it. As a result FD has updated the data base only
sporadically.
14.       As regards training, a two-year university degree program has been
established at the USJ. The course is at the M.Sc. level with an intake of
B.Sc. graduates, mostly in natural sciences. At the end of 1990, 73 H.Sc.
candidates had graduated. Their number has been limited by the scarcity of
applicants following the closure of all universities in 1989 and by more
limited job prospects due to MLIMD*s budgetary constraints in recent years.
The funds available for international visiting lecturers in forestry specific
areas have been under-disbursed, reportedly due to the management's desire to
avoid resentment from the local university staff over salary issues. As a
result, the training has remained biased towards natural sciences and the
quality may have suffered. The new Forestry Institute at Nuwara Eliya,
completed in 1989, provided in-service training for 28 forest rangers and 56
guards in 1990. In addition, two four-week study tours to New Zealand were
organized for a total of 24 forestry officers. The benefit of the tours was
reportedly visible in improved thinning operations by staff who had
participated. The number of professionals and other staff trained under the
project was significantly less than expected at appraisal, and the absence of
sufficient training adversely affected implementation of the forest management
activities.
15.       As mentioned previously, the plantation achievements are difficult
to assess because of the absence of a proper monitoring and evaluation system.
An in-house study of the plantation work, carried out prior to the PCR
mission, provided information on survival rates only. Depending on the data
used (i.e., FPU vs FD), between 7,000 and 8,000 ha of industrial plantations
were established. These figures include the replanting of over-mature stands
which were supposed to be computed separately. Taken together, the plantation
areas would be around 85Z of the SAR target of 9,000 ha. The average survival
rate on these plantations was estimated at project completion at 501. The
ia±n reason for this low rate is the lack of appropriate technical packages
for the dry zone where about 751 of the plantations are located.Q/
Moreover, the political disturbances affected plantations in two ways. No
effective fire protection program could be implemented because use of radio
communication systems was forbidden, and poor weed control combined with
drought increased the fire hazard. Thinning was done on 6,200 ha of teak
plantations (621 of SAR target) and silvicultural treatments were carried out
over 21,800 ha of young stands of teak, pine and eucalyptus (451 above SAR
target). It is likely, however, that new established plantations are included
in the 21,800 ha whereas the SAR objective was directed exclusively to young
neglected stands planted before 1980. The species/provenance and land
clearance/preparation trials were carried out over 200 ha, mainly in
~/   Plantations for the dry zone were initially meant to be established on
degraded forest areas. GOSL insisted, however, on using only imperata
grass lands which are technically more challenging.



- 7 -
Tanamalwila on dry zone sites. The trials did result in some readily useable
technical packages and practical findings were incorporated into the follow-up
project. For instance, the superiority of the Eucalyptus tereticornis for
forestation work was demonstrated. It was also shown that large plantations
cannot be established by relying on manual weeding alone and that mechanical
operations may be necessary.
16.       Impact of Project.  As stated in para. 11, the project succeeded in
focussing GOSL's attention on the need to manage the country's forestry
resources rationally. It also gave MLIMD's staff an operational framework for
developing the forestry sector. Although difficult to assess because of
insufficient detailed data, incremental wood production during project
implementation was about 23,000 m3 per year (mainly clear felling of
eucalyptus). After the implementation period, incremental production could be
around 41,000 m3 per year over the next 20 years. ThIe difference between the
SAR estimate of 320,000 m3 per year (Table 6 of Part III) and the more modest
project achievements is due to a number of factors, amongst which are: (a)
the overall plantation area established is around 85% of the SAR target; (b)
the average survival rate is much lower than the SAR assumption, which is
presumably 100%; and (c) the actual yields derived from the computerized
management system are substantially lower than the SAR assumptions. Most of
the project benefits would be derived from the supply of more valuable and
marketable trees as well as from their availability at an earlier period.
17.       The SAR's ERR of 20% was only for plantation establishment.  The ex-
post ERR for this component gives a lower result, about 10%. However, the
project has generated large benefits due to silvicultural treatment of
plantations, both in terms of immediate benefits from the production of wood
and incremental future benefits, because of stand improvements. Estimates of
net benefits are high due to small incremental and high sunk costs. For
illustrative purposes, an ERR of 45% was calculated, based on methodology and
assumptions adopted in the SAR of the follow-up project, for forest management
activities. The annual foreign exchange savings from import substitution
would be proportionally less than expected due to the shortfall in achieving
plantation targets. Government's revenues from royalties would continue to
increase, mainly due to intensification of management activities within the
established plantations. As regards environmental impact, the project, as a
result of forest inventories carried out, has identified and excluded from
logging about 200,000 ha of tropical moist forest and placed them under
protection. The project developed an up-to-date resource management
technology, which was adopted not only in Sri Lanka but subsequently also in
other countries in the Asia region.
IDA Performance
18.       IDA sent 11 supervision missions to Sri Lanka over 8 years.  Seven
consisted of the task manager only and were for an average period of 8 days



- 8 -
in the field.ß/ After the start of the political disturbances in 1985,
missions could not visit some of the project area and it was then suggested,
and agreed to by MLIMD, to informally suspend the operations and disbursements
in insecure areas. The missions discussed all the main problems during
project implementation at the wrap-up meetings and proposed adequate
corrective measures. For instance, missions recommended (unsuccessfully) that
MLMID set up temporary training facilities after the closing of the Forestry
Institute in 1985. They also repeatedly advised (with partial success) that
the plantation targets in the dry zone be lowered, and that the failed
plantations be replanted instead, emphasizing development of appropriate
technical packages.
Borrower Performance
19.       GOSL was supportive of the project throughout.  Key staff for FPU
was provided as planned,Z/ and although budgetary constraints delayed the
start of project implementation, GOSL eventually complied with all covenants.
Regarding management plans for natural forests, closer supervision by FPU and
FD could have improved the consultant's performance. FD could have adopted
more rapidly the new forest management system developed under the project.
Project Relationship
20.       IDA and GOSL maintained a good relationship throughout project
implementation. The supervision missions benefitted from easy access to
MLIMD's management. Also, problems discussed at wrap-up meetings were
normally remedied as agreed.
Consulting Services
21.       In general, the national consultants performed well although the
problems caused by the delay in recruitment were more serious than foreseen at
appraisal and delayed the completion of the Master Plan. The international
consultants financed by FINNIDA for the preparation of the Master Plan
generated a comprehensive and up-to-date information and data base for the
sector and prepared a perspective development program. However, the planning
process could have been made much more transparent to get feedback from
various interest groups and to avoid misunderstandings. Thirteen forest
management plans were completed by the international consultants, some
containing mathematical errors. International consultants involved with the
ß/   The continuity and consistency obtained by having the same task manager
throughout project implementation were beneficial in the case of the
FRDP.
Z/ The excessive staff turnover is a general problem and not specific to the
FRDP.



-9-
development of technical packages for establishing plantations in the dry zone
could have identified earlier that mechanization would be necessary to
overcome difficult site conditions.
Proiect Documentation and Data
22.       The main documents guiding project implementation were the SAR and
the Development Credit Agreement. They were both adequate and provided a
useful framework for the staff involved. IDA's tolerance of FD's reluctance
to maintain reliable records of field operations resulted in inadequate data
to assess the physical and financial performance of the project. For many
years, FPU's progress reports were sometimes late and not always of the
quality expected. However, this situation improved towards the end of
implementation.



- 11 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Description and Objectives
23.       The area under forests and the quality of stands diminished over the
past years and the progressive decline in forest resources became a growing
source of concern in view of the increased demand for fuelwood and timber
supplies. The area of forest lands is now estimated at about 2.5 million ha
or about 40X of the total land, as opposed to 46X in 1956. The main cause for
decline is the clearing of land for agricultural purposes, and illicit
fellings to a much lesser extent.
24.       At the request of the Government of Sri Lanka, the World Bank
carried out a review of the forestry sector in 1979 and the constraints in the
development of the forestry sector were identified as lack of reliable data,
absence of planning capacity and severe shortage of trained personnel. It was
therefore agreed to prepare a project to remedy this situation. Accordingly,
the Forest Resources Development Project (FRDP) was prepared and appraised by
IDA in 1982.
25.       The objectives of the project were to:
(a)  provide Sri Lanka with a Forestry Master Plan and a Five-Year
detailed Investment Program,
(b)  initiate professional forestry training,
(c)  assist in the expansion of technical training facilities at the
Forest College, and
(d)  establish 8,000 ha of plantations to meet industrial wood
requirements.
26.       IDA Credit 1317-CE was approved in January 1983 for a period of six
years expiring on December 31, 1989. The credit became operative from
September 1983, and the closing date was extended by one year up to December
31, 1990 to allow time for the smooth transition with the follow-up Forest
Sector Development Project.
27.       Total project costs over six years were estimated at US$15.0 million
[of which US$9.0 million was to be financed through an IDA Credit for
plantations, professional training and technical training; US$2.4 million
through FINNIDA (technical assistance) for the Master Plan and Investment
Program; and US$3.6 million by the Government of Sri Lanka for salaries and
operating and maintenance].



-1, -
Proiect Organization
28.       The Forestry Planning Unit (FPU) established in the Ministry of
Lands, Irrigation and Mahaweli Development was responsible for the overall
implementation of the project. The Forest Department was responsible for
W..ompleting forest inventories, managing existing plantations, establishing new
p,lantations and tethnical training of Range Forest Officers and Beat Forest
Officers. The University of Sri Jayawadenapura was responsible for the
education of professional foresters. A Steering Committee consisting of
members of all the institutions under the various ministries concerned in the
preparation of the Master Plan was set up.
Project Implementation
29.       The IDA Credit was approved in January 1983 and became operational
in September 1983 when the FINNIDA consultants arrived in Sri Lanka. At the
start, the progress of the project was hampered to some extent by the GOSL's
budgetary constraints in 1984 and to a great extent in 1985 due to political
disturbances. The existing Forest Institute in China Bay, Trincomalee
District was closed in 1985 for security reasons and the training courses for
forest rangers and forest guards were suspended. A new Forestry Institute was
built with USAID/FRDP funds in Nuwara Eliya and it commenced operations in
1990.
30.       she plantation works in Batticaloa and Ampara Districts in the East
had to be suspended in 1986 and alternate districts for the plantations
program could not be taken up until an IDA supervision mission visited the
proposed new plantation sites and an amendment was made to the Development
Credit Agreement with effect from February 1988. The plantation works
progressed thereafter satisfactorily.
31.       Sound inventory data and continuous monitoring of the forest cover
was necessary for adequate planning and IDA succeeded in convincing the UNDP
and FAO to expand their ongoing Natural Forest Inventory Project. The FAO
expert was retained for two more years from 1985 by using IDA funds
(US$258,600) through a cost sharing arrangement.
32.       A detailed Forestry Inventory was prepared covering 278,000 ha of
natural forests in the wet zone, 98,000 ha of established plantations and an'
indicative inventory for 340 000 ha of natural forests in ;he dry zone.
Thirteen management plans were prepared and 21 map sheets at 1:25,000 have
been prepared for the natural forests. Thirteen map sheets were produced for
plantations at 1:10,000.
33.       In addition, the FPU set up a computerized forest management system
using the data base created by the forest inventory. The system was
transferred to the Forest Department in 1988.
34.       6,815 ha of industrial plantations were established.  The survival
rates were estimated at 50% and the low rates are reported to be due to
drought and the poor quality of the seeds imported from abroad.



J 3 -
35.       5,768 ha of teak plantations were treated up to the end of 1989, and
1,065.3 ha were managed in 1990, bringing the total to 6,833.3 ha.
36.       Silvicultural treatments were carried out in 21,942 ha up to the end
of 1989, and 2,064.1 ha were treated in 1990, bringing the total to 24,006.1
ha. In addition to the above, 10,690 ha of young plantations were treated up
to the end of 1990.
37.       The species/provenance and land clearing preparation trials were
carried out over 200 ha, mainly in Tanamalwila and dry zone sites. Technical
assistance support in this regard was poor.
38.       The following updated statistical information is included in the
foregoing paragraphs.
Achievements as of
Activity                        the end of 1990
Preparation of                 Thirteen Management Plans were
Forest Management              prepared and 21 map sheets at
Plans                           1:25,000 have been produced
for the natural forests.
Thirteen map sheets were
produced for plantations at
1:10,000.
Management of                   5,768 ha were treated up to
Teak Plantation                 the end of 1989, and 1,065.3
ha were managed in 1990. The
total extent is 6,833.3 ha.
Silvicultural                  21,942 ha were treated up to
Treatment of                    the end of 1989, and 2,064.1
Young Stands                   ha were treated in 1990,
bringing the total to 24,006.1
ha. In addition to the above,
10,690 ha of young plantations
were treated up to the end of
1990.
39.       The Forestry Master Plan was published in September 1986 and it was
given wide publicity through newspapers and by conducting several workshops.
There was great enthusiasm among the public and the plan was subjected to much
discussion. It was finalized in early 1987. The aim of the Master Plan
preparation was to carry out a thorough study of the forest and non-forest
wood resources availability, its rate of change, the demand on these resources
at present and in the future, and to develop a strategic framework for the
forestry sector development. A number of studies were carried out for
development of the Master Plan. These include:



- 14 -
- Institutional Development Study
- Assessment of Non-Forest Wood Resources
- Wood Market & Demand Study
- Forest Industry Study
- Logging and Transport Study.
40.       The Five-Year Investment Program which was prepared as a follow-up
of the Master Plan was finalized in 1987 and a summary of the proposals was
presented to potential donor countries in September 1987. Subsequently, at
the request of GOSL, a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP) visited Sri Lanka in February 1988 to formulate a suitable forestry
sector project.
41.       An analytical cost accounting study was undertaken by FINNIDA to
design a cost accountir.g and information system. The system designed was
abandoned by the Forest Department after it was introduced on a trial basis,
with modifications, in certain districts during 1985.
42.       The new Forestry Institute at Nuwara Eliya provided in-service
training for 28 forest rangers and 56 forest guards in 1990.
43.       By end-1990 the University of Sri Jayawardenapura had produced 73
forestry M.Sc. graduates.
Proiect Costs, Financing & Disbursement
44.       The total cost of the project is SL Rs 314,980 million (equivalent
of US$9.92 million).
SL Rs (M)      USS (M)
Direct disbursement by IDA             16.532
Reimbursement of Expenditure
Pre-financed by Treasury              37.250
Expenditure from Withdrawals
from Special Dollar Account          126.452
IDA Credit                            180.234          5.63
GOSL Expenditure                       74.745          2.13
254.979          7.76
*Estimated Expenditure
by FINNIDA                           60.000          2.44
Total                            314.979         10.20
*Payments to the consultants were made directly by the Finnish Government.



- 15 -
45.       During the first four years (1983-1986) foreign payments were made
by direct disbursements from the World Bank while local .ayments were pre-
financed by the Treasury and reimbursements claimed from IDA. It took nearly
ten weeks undar normal circumstances to obtain reimbursements of the local
expenditures pre-financed by the Treasury. Further delay was occasioned by
accumulation of unclaimed expenditures caused by shortage of accounting staff.
To obviate the delay in getting reimbursements from IDA, a Special Dollar
Account was established by IDA in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka and
expenditures (both foreign and local) were met from withdrawals from this
account. This ensured ready availability of foreign exchange as well as funds
to finance local expenditures. The Spec',al Dollar Account was opened on
January 17, 1986, but the actual operations started from September 1986.
46.       Distribution of project costs between components and categories are
as given in Part III--Statistical Information.
Pro ect Relationship
47.       The main documents guiding the project implementation were the SAR
and Development Credit Agreement. These were supplemented by discussions and
clarifications by the IDA supervision missions at the wrap-up meetirngs. Good
relationship between GOSL and IDA was maintained throughout, and the frequency
of the supervision missions generated attempts by the project staff to keep up
to targets and maintain documentation. There is general agreement with the
analysis contained in Parts I & III of the PCR.



- 17 -
PART III - STITISTICAL INFORNATION
1.  Related Bank Oeratonm
T1t                          Purp"s*                           Year of   SetatM      Cominents
Approvat
Forestry Sector Review          To assist COSL in foruilating      1979    Completed   The review ted
a strategy for the develop  nt                          to the fmple-
of its foretry setor.                                    entation of the
FRDP.
Forest Sector Oetlopnt          (a) strwethen the m_ngent          1989    On-going    Overall
Project (Cr 20U3-CE)            of natural foretsad estab-                              status-2.
lished plantatfons;                                     The project is a
folIrw-up to the
Cb) set up en en 1ironntal                              FROP.
mangemnt sytem;
(c) establish an  mintain
17,900 he of new plantations;
(d) expand and increase
resources for profesional and
technical education and
training facilities;
(e) strengthen the institu-
tional structure of the
Forestry Department.
2. Prolect Tietable
im                              ~~~~~~~Date Ptanne                 Actuat Date
Identification L&                                                                10/1979
Preparatin jb                                 4/1981                            04/1981
Appraisal L                                    5/1981                            e4/1982
Credit Negotiations                             N.A.                             11/1982
Board Approval                                 3/1982                            01/1983
Credit Signture                                 N.A.                             02/1983
Credit £ffectivens                           05/03/1983                          09/1983
Project C Mpletotn                           12/31/1988                          12/1990
Credit Closing Ld                            12/31/1989                          12/1990 /e
a Carried out on the occasion of the Forestry Sector Review in 1979.
Carried out by en international consulting firm In 1980 under UNDP funding.
The delay wa at the request of the GOSL due to budgetary constraints.
The extenion was granted fn view of the delay in co"_ncing civil works at the Forestry
Institute at Nuwara Ely  and the need to provide a smooth transition with the Forest Resources
Ulopuant Project.
La vIth en additional four months to allow completion of disburements against eligible expenditures
ineurred prior to 12/31/90.



- 18 -
3. Credit Disbursement
World Bank Fiscal Year       1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91
In SDR Million
SAR Estimate                0.47        1.89        3.31       4.44        5.86        7.56       8.50        8.50
Actual                      0.006       0.50        1.27       1.70        2.74        3.64       4.59       4.57LA
Actual as X of Estimate       1X         26X        382        38X         47X         48X         54X        54X
In USS Million
SAR Estimate                 0.5         2.0        3.5        4.7         6.2         8.0         9.0        9.0
Actual                      0.006        0.49       1.33        1.86       3.26        4.44        5.66      5.63La
Actual as 2 of Estimate       12         252        382        402         532         562         632        632
Date of Last DIsburseoment: August 6, 1990.
UIthdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Original                 Actual
Category                                     S                S               USS
(1) Civil works                              570,000       304,815.65        367,729.43
(2) Equiient, furmiture, books,
vehicles and materials Including
plantation inputs                     1,230,000       833,050.91      1,033,125.79
c3) Consultants' services and
training abroad                       1,130,000     1,053,019.04      1.244,483.42
C4) Plantation activities                  4,900,000     2,309,358.69      2,982,423.49
(5) Unallocated                              670.000                -_                -
8,500,000    4,520,244.29       5,627,762.13
Fund (Special Account)Lh                      -        48.743.64                  -
Total                            8,500,000    4,568,987.93       5,627,762.13
La Decifne due to recovery of Special Account balance.
Lk Exchange adjustnant attributable to the difference between the US dollar equivalent
at the tim furds were advanced to the Specalo Account and the US dollar equivalent
at the time the advance was documented.



- 19 -
4. Proiect Imnplementation
Ke lndicators                    SAR Targets                  Achievements                 Comments
Institutional Strenathenfna
Strengthening of Planning       Establishing a Forestry        FPU has been successfully  FPU is now in charge of
Planning Unit (FPU) within   established.                  planning and monitoring
the Ministry of Lands                                      all programs in the
sector.
Forest Inventory               Complement managemens levol  278,000 ha in the wet
inventory of 200,000 ha of   zone; 98,000 ha
wet zone on about 60,000 ha  plantation and 340,000 ha
of plantations and             in the dry-zone have been
indicative inventory of       completed.
100.000 ha in dry zone.
Forestry Sector Master Plan   Formulation of a twenty-        Completed in mid-1986        Overall plan was good
year sector development                                    however environmental
plan.                                                      issues, institutional
development needs were
not covered adequately.
Investment target for
private sector was
overly optimistic.
Five-Year Investment Program  Preparation of a five-year   Completed by mid-1986           Became the basis of the
investment program as the                                  follow-up IDA and ADB
first phase of plan                                        suipported projects.
implementation.
Forest Management Plans        Preparation of working          13 plans were prepared      Plans for natural
plans for al. inventoried    for the natural forest        forest were
forest areas.                 and 14 sheets of forest    unsatisfactory.  They
maps were prepared          also need major
re%ision under the new
envirormient policy
adopted.
Forestry Data Bank             Establishing a resource and  A comuterized system           System enabled FD to
management data base.          with problem solving        undertake silvicultural
capability was developed   operations and
by FPU and later adopted   prevented negative-
by FD. However, FD needs  s. lection.
to improve maintenance of
data.
Forestry Trainina
University Training             Establish a two-year MSc       Course has been             Current annual intake
Forestry course with an       established.  Three          is 6 students.
annual Intake of 12-15        overseas studies have        Employment prospects
students.  Four overseas       been completed and          have been limited.
postgraduate degrees.          graduates took teaching    Quality of education
positions at the            now improveo with the
University.                 return of graduates
from overseas.
Technical Training              Increase the annual           Old school was closed due  Between 1985 and 1990
training canacity of forest  to political                  no technical training
guards from 15 to 30 and      disturbances.  A new         was given.
provide lodging facilities   school constructed in
for short-term courses.       Nuwara Eliya and training
started in 1990.



- 20 -
Key Indicators                   SAR Taraets                  Achievements                 Comments
Plantations
Establishment of Industrial   8,000 ha in dry zone and        5,200 ha in the dry zone;  Dry zone plantations
Plantations                     1,000 ha in the up country.  1.700 ha in the up-           are in poor condition.
country/wet zone. Two of
the initial pLantation
sites had to be abandoned
due security reasons.
Management of Teak              Thinning of 10,000 ha of      6.200 ha have boen           Stands In the North and
Plantations                     established teak              thinned.                     East could not be
plantations.                                               thinned oue to security
reasons.
Silvicultural Treatment of    Treatment of 15,000 ha of    21,800 ha, including new   Thinning and tending
Young Stands                   young stands.                  plantations, have been       was carried out
tended.                     according to the
prescriptions
formulated by the
computerized management
systems.
Species and Provenance          To identify suitabla          Established in dry zone    Elimination and species
Trials.                        species.                       and up-country.              information was
generated and partly
used.
Land Clearanke and Gioound      To identify optimal site      Partly implemented.          FD performed poorly in
Preparation Trials              preparation technology.                                    organizing trials.
Poor TA support.
Forest Protection              To set up Fire Protection    Program was developed but Some of the sites in
Program and Train staff.       implementation was          the Iry zone were
inadequate.                 abandoned due to
security reasons and
program was frequently
Interrupted at other
locations.
Soil and Site, and Socia-       To assess availability end   Completed by the end of    Most of the area
Economic Surveys                suitability o  plantation    1984.                         covered had to be
sites.                                                     abandoned.



- 21 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
----- (USS million) ---------
Coaponents                                                            SAR Estimate                       ActuaL
Master Plan                                                            2.86                                3.12
University Training                                                     1.65                               1.04
Technical Training                                                     0.73                                0.35
Industrial Plantations                                                 6.25                                4.10
Management of Teak Plentations                                         2.68                                1.42
Research Trials                                                        0.86                                0:17
Total Project Costs /                                              15.03                               10.20
La  Including physical and price contingencies.  It is assuned that FINNIDA's financing of technical assistance was
fully utilized as planned (no separate records were available).
B. Proiect Financing
----- .USS miLlion) ----
Source                                                                                              SAR Estimate      Actual
a) IDA (Total)                                                                                            9.00         5.63
1. Civil Works                                                                                       (0.70)        (0.;7)
2. Equipment and Materials                                                                           (1.37)        (1.03)
3. Consultant's Services and Training Abroad                                                         (1.26)        (1.25)
4. Plantation Activities                                                                             (5.67)        (2.98)
b) FINMIDA /a                                                                                             2.44         2.44
c) GOSL L                                                                                                 3.59         2.13
Total                                                                                               15.03         10.20
/a See footnote to Table A above.
L   The apparently low contributirn of GOSL is due to the depreciation of the Rs during the investment period (close
to 501).



- 22 -
6. Project Results and Studies
A. Project Results
Key Indicators                                      SAR Estimates                                     Actual
Wood Production                      Increase the arvnnal wood supply by 320,000   An estimated average of 23,000 m' per
m! of which 40X is sawlogs, 35X pole, and      year of incremental wood suppWy over
25X firewood.                                   1985-90, mainly from the clear fetling
of eucaLyptus. After project
inpLementation, an average of 41,000 a?
per year over 20 years.
Employment Creation                 2.7 million staff-days over 5 years for         About 2 million staff-days over the
5,000 laborers                                 project implementation period.
Foreign Exchange Savings            The equivalent of US#18 million in import    Not significant since very little of
savings during implementation                  project incremental wood supply is,
strictly speaking, a substitute to
imports.
Government Budget                   Increase of Rs 55 million over investment       Increase of Rs 18 million over
period.  More than Rs 15 million anrually    investment period. Average of Rs 7
afterwards                                     million annually over the next 20
years.
Environmental Impact                Help relieve the pressure on wood-              Main benefit has been in terms of the
extraction from erosion from water             awareness raised amongst the public at
catchments areas.                               large as well as the GOSL.
ERR                                 20X on industrial plantations (relating to   Plantation management activities in
42  of project costs)                          the second project, similar to those
of the fROP, have an ERR of 45%.



-23 -
B. Studies
Subjects                         SAR Taroets             Status            Comments /a
Institutional Development        To study ways of       Completed in       It did not address
Study                            strengthening the       February 1986.    institutional problems
sector institutions.                      properly.
To be completed by
end-1984.
Assessment of Non-Forest Wood   To assess supply of   Conpieted in          There were problems in
Resources                        agricultural            Jure 1986.         finding suitabLe locaL
plantation wood.  To                      consultants.  One FINNIDA
be completed by end-                      consultant completed the
1984.                                     work.  Main finding was
that fuelwood from non-
forest resources is much
more Important than
expected.
Wood Market and Demand Study    To study the             Completed in      Delayed by difficulty in
structure              February 1986.    finding suitable local
geographical                              consultants.
distribution and
magnitude of the
market for wood and
wood-based products.
To be completed by
end-1984.
Forest Industry Study            To identify the         Completed in      Carried out by local
developmental needs   mid-1986.           consultants.
of the mechanical
wood industry. To
be completed by mid-
1984.
Wood Utilization Study           To determine the        Completed in       Carried out by local
best handling and      mid-1985.          consultants.
processing methods
and usage of both
natural forest and
plantation grown
species. TX be
completed by mid-
1984.
Logging and Transformation       To study the            Completed in
Study                            potential for           mid-1985.
Improving the
productivity of
logging and transfer
operations. To be
completed by mid-
1984.
Analytical Cost Accounting       To design a cost        Completed by       Carried out by FINNIDA.
Study                            accounting and          end-1984.          System never used because
information system.                       found ifpractical by FD.
To be completed by
end-1984.



_ 24 -
Subiects                           SAR Tarsets             Status              Comments /a
Socio-Econamic Study               To evaluate risks of   Completed in         Carried out by local
conflicts between       March 1985.         consultants.
farmers and
livestock ouners on
project plantation
sites (see
plantations). To be
completed by mid-
1984.
La All studies were used for the preparation of the Master Plan except the last two listed.



- 25 -
7. Status of Covenants
Agreement    Section    Status    Original   Revised    Description of Covenant   Coments
Date     Date
Credit       3.07 (a)       OK      12/31/83               University of SJ will
furnish a scholarship
program
3.07 (b)      OK       12/31/83              Project Director will
furnish a study tour
program
3.08(e)       OK                              Forest management plans    Management plans
to be conpleted            need revision
3.08(b)       OK                              Forest management plans
to be iwplemented
3.09(a)        OK      06/30/85               Silvicultural treatment
plan to be submitted to
IDA
3.09(b)        OK                            Annual silvicultural
programs to be submitted
to IDA
3.11           OK      06/30/84               Furnish IDA with a
socio-economic study
3.12           OK      06/30/84               Furnish IDA with a soil/
site survey
4.02           OK      05/31/83               Establish and maintain
separate project
accounts
4.04          OK       06/30/84               Furnish IDA with annual
plantation management
plans



- 26 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
FY 80     FY 81    FY 82    FY 83       FY 84    FY 85      FY 86    FY 87    FY 88      FY 89    FY 90    FY 91      Total
LENP La       1.3        16.6     14.5                                                                                               32.4
LENA  b                           44.9     18.9                                                                                       63.8
LENN                                          .                                          3.5
LOP  d         .1          .2      2.1      4.8                                                                                        7.2
SPN le                                       2.3      12.7      12.1      8.5      8.7       8.0        1.8      3.4      2.5         60.0
PCR                                                                                                                       2.2          2.2
PAD /f                                        .3        .2        .2       .3                                                          1.0
Total          ..4       16.8     61.5      29.8      12.9      12.3      8.8      8.7       8.0        1.8      3.4      4.7        170.1
/a  Activities prior to appraisal.
Lb  Activities retated to appraisal.
/e  Negotiations activities.
d  Pre-Approisal and appraisal work by Country Department.
a   Supervision activities.
if  Project abninistration activities.



B. Missions
No. of                       Specialization       Performance
Stage of Project Cycle        Month/Year       Persons    Days in Field    Represented /c    Rating StatusLa   Type of Problems Lb
Identification             Identified during the Forestry Sector Review in 1979.
Preparation                Prepared by            5             180
1980 under a                   Nov. 80-Jan.
UNDP financing                       81
Appraisal                       4-5/82            4             26           E/ML, FS, F,
FES
Supervision 1                   10/83             1              8                 E                   2                    F
Supervision 2                    4/84             1             13                 F                   2                    M
Supervision 3                    9/84             1             13                 F                   2                    M
Supervision 4                    7/85             2             14                E, F                 2                   MTP
Supervision 5                   11/85             1              6                 F                   2                    P
Supervision 6                    2/87             2             13                E, F                 2                    TM
Supervision 7                   10/87             1             15                 F                   2                    TM
Supervision 8                    5/88             1              3                 F                   2                    MT
Supervision 9                   10/89             1              2                 F                   2                    P
Supervision 10                   4/90             1              5                 F                   2                    M
Supervision 11                   7/90             2              7               F, Ec                 2                    M
/a  1- Probtem free or minor probtems; 2- Moderate Problems; 3- Major Problems.
/b  Technical, InstitutionaL, Financial, Economic, ManageriaL, Social, Political.
Lc  E = Economist, ML = Mission Leader, F = Forester, FS = Forest Specialist, FES   Forest Education Specialist, Ec = Ecologis



b
MAP SECTION



IBRD 16518
Konh.,ontvroi  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 1~ UY982
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT                (FORESTRY I)
PROJECT PLANTATION SITES AND FOREST COVER
*   /                                                           PNoioct P1,taionol1a n Site$
EEi$tin9 PI,nto,ion,
Fo,olt Rese,ves
Fo, t 0i.isiolooc 8o,voaes
Agro-climotic Zonol Bovdo,ios
/ Io0 Tons and Villaopt
)                     ""                          *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Nattsonal Capital
)/             ++                                  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Roodi
Talo.".m                    M              *.k .,                                        RalOOMds
Rivets
-  -   Ints,nouonal sound.ies
^  (0   An ,odhooso                    *             X         a~~~~~P.Wddo
-ya~ ~~~-
Nflo.; l
A v    X*olno--ockna
KI METEAS                    Nepob
0   1,0  2,   30   40   50             \        / %                              t              
∞ MlES
Ibo WM  h.p d           I N D  IfA
tA _rr0rr..O.o   U.,..d.....x'o of./
*    ~            , \W to'                                       t          t  
ar>OO^lttXto mU +n 
- V. i f-6                                                                 Toplia .
SRI LANKA
Cokmb.nb
i   Cobutmo                           80-~~~~~So                                                 81-



