Document of
The World Bank                          FILE CLOP'y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4089a-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(FORESTRY I)
December 15, 1982
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1 = Rs 21
Rs 1 = US $0.0476
FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)   =   0.62 miles
1 meter (m)        =   1.09 yards
1 hectare (ha)     =   10,000 m2 (0.01 km2) = 2.471 acres
1 cubic meter (m3) =   35.315 cu ft
1 kilogram (kg)    =   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)   =   1,000 kg = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -      Asian Development Bank
BSc         -     Bachelor of Science
FAO         -      Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations
FINNIDA     -      Finland's Department for International
Cooperation - Ministry of Foreign Affairs
GOSL        -     Government of Sri Lanka
IDA         -     International Development Association
MSc         -     Master of Science
NORAD       -     Norwegian Agency for International
Development
SIDA        -      Swedish International Development
Agency
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -     United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY I - FOPCEST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION        ................... .                          1
II.  FORESTRY IN SRI LANKA .........s.....  *.* .... ..........         2
A. Forest Resources          ......................                2
B.  Contribution   to the Economy... ....................          3
C.  Forestry Institutionstit.i. .n... ....................         3
D.  Forest Operations. ...................                         6
Wood extraction .      ...................-.                6
Plantation Program..                                        7
Planting Techniquescs..                         ...         7
Forest Management and Silvicultural Practices.....          8
Research          .       ...... .                          8
E.  Wood Supply and Demand.e...*.* ......................          9
General ...............                        .            9
Industrial Wood ...........  ..... . ... . .... .           9
Firewood....                             .............  10
F.  The Forest Industry ............................ .0           12
G.  Forestry Training          ...................                13
H. Government Plans and  Pol             i.  ......               14
I.  External Assistance to Forestry.                              14
J.  Constraints to Development ..........................        16
III.  THE PROJECT AREA . ................ ...... .                      16
A. - General ............  , ....  .. ... ... ..  ,   ..          16
B. Climate.............  17
C.  SoLls, Land Use, Population and Infrastructure......          17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Sri Lanka in April-May 1982. Mission members included: Harald Stier
(Economist and Mission Leader, IDA), Orhan Baykal (Forest Specialist,
IDA), Derek K. Paul (Forester, FAO/Bank Cooperative Programme) and'
Andre Lafond (Forest Education Specialist, Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
IV.  THE PROJECT ...............   .   .....               .................     18
A. Objectives and Main Features                   .        ..18
B.  Detailed Description .........           .. ...............            19
Master Plan.                                                        19
Aims and Strategy ............ .                                 19
Strengthening of Planning   .                 .20
Institutional Development Study.                                 20
Forest Inventoryv          en... ......... 0.................    21
Preparation of Forest Management Plans.                          21
Assessment of Non-forest Wood Resources. .                       21
Wood Market and Demand Stddy                                     21
Forest Industry Study..                                          22
Wood Utilization Studt.                                          22
Logging and Transportation Study .22
Analytical Cost Accounting System                                22
Forestry Data Bank. . . . . . . ... ...       .. ......          23
Forestry Training   ..23
Professional Training.                                           23
Forest Guard Training                                            24
Plantations                     ..... 25
Plantation Establishme t. .25
Management of Teak Plantations   .               .27
Silvicultural Treatment of Young Stands.........                 27
Harvesting and Replanting of Over-mature Stands.                 28
Species and Provenance Trialsr......                             28
Land Clearance and Ground Preparation Trials....                 29
Forest Protection ...........                                    29
Socio-Economic Study .30
Soil and Site Survey. ...........................                30
C. Implementation Schedule                       ...                       31
D. Project Costt..                                                         32
E. Financing . .                                                           33
F.  Procurement                                                            34........ ........................ .  34
G. Disbursements                    . . .34
H. Accounts and Auditsu                 d       i       ts.......   35
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT               ...                                36
A.  Project Implementation            .     ..........................., 36
B. Staffing                          .......   38
C.  Consultancy Services                  .    ..................          39
D. Training .......................... .                                  39
E. Monitoring and Evaluation                   ......          .          40



-3-
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ..........................             41
A.  Yields and Production            . ..        ... ...... .. .      41
B.      Markets ................................... .......................  42
C.  Prices ..............................................            43
D.  Impact on Government Budget .........................             43
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................             44
A.    Project   Benefits  ...  ....... .... .................................... .  44
B.  Economic Analysis ..............            ..      ....... .     45
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ..................   ............ ....... .            48
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - BACKGROUND DATA
Table 1 - Average Monthly Rainfall for Selected Sites in
Sri Lanka ..........................................            50
ANNEX 2 - COST ESTIMATES - PLANNING
Table                                                                          1 - Master Plan - Capital Cost ...........................  51
Table 2 - Technical Assistance Cost ............................              52
Table 3 - Planning Unit - Local Staff Cost ...................  0.            53
Table 4 - Forest Inventory - Local Staff and Labor Cost ........             54
Table 5 - Master Plan - Operating and Maintenance Cost .........              55
Table 6 - Total Planhing Cost .................. ...............             56
ANNEX 3 - COST ESTIMATES - TRAINING
Table 1 - Professional Training - Total Cost ..............   .....           57
Table 2 - China Bay Forestry College
Expansion and Rehabilitation ............. ..... * ....         58
ANNEX 4 - COST ESTIMATES - INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS.
Table  I - Capital Cost            -Eastern Area .......... ..............    59
Table  2 - Capital Cost - Southern Area .......................               60
Table  3 - Technical Assistance Cost .......... ...............               61
Table  4 - Staff Cost - Eastern Area ...........................    62
Table  5 - Staff Cost - Southern Area ..............f.....h...rn.A e          63
Table  6 - Staff Cost - Total Industrial Plantations ...........              64
Table   7  -   Operating   Cost  .......................... .......................... .  65
Table  8 - Nursery Model ................................... .               66



-4-
Table  9 - Plantation Establishment - Unit Cost ................         67
Table 10 - Plantation Establishment - First Year Cost ..........         68
Table 11 - Industrial Plantations - Annual Maintenance Cost ....         69
Table 12 - Plantation Establishment - Direct Cost Summary ......         70
Table 13 - Total Industrial Plantation Cost ....................         71
ANNEX 5 - COST - ESTIMATES PLANTATION MANAGEMENT
Table I- Management of Teak Plantations   .................              72
Table 2 - Silvicultural Treatment of Young Stands ..............         73
Table 3 - Reforestation of Mature Plantations..................          74
Table 4- Total Plantation Management Cost   ................ .. 75
ANNEX 6 - COST ESTIMATES - PLANTATION TRIALS AND RESEARCH
Table 1 - Plantation Research and Trials - Capital Cost........          76
Table 2 - Plantation Research and Trials - Staff Cost..........          77
Table 3- Mechanized Trials -Unit Cost                 .       .          78
Table 4 - Plantation Research and Trials - Direct Cost .........         79
Table 5 - Plantation Research and Trials - Total Cost  ......            80
ANNEX 7 - SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
Table I - Total Project Cost (in Rs '000) ...........                    ............  81
Table 2 - Total Project Cost (in US $ '000)    .          ... .-         82
Table 3 - Total Project Cost by Nature (in Rs '000) ..........           83
Table 4 - Total Project Cost by Nature (US $ '000)  .        .    .      84
ANNEX 8.  DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULES AND FINANCING
Table I - Disbursement Schedule ........-............        .......     85
Table 2 - Project Cost Items and Disbursements  ................         86
ANNEX 9 - PLANTATION SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1 - Foreign-assisted Forest Plantation Projects ..........         87
Table 2 - Area Planted Under Project by Species and
Method of Plantation..  ........... o ........ .. .         88
Table 3 - Yield Assumptions for Plantations          ...      .          89
ANNEX 10 - COSTS, PRICES AND CONVERSION FACTORS USED
Table 1 - Forest Department Major Staff Categories and
Salaries ................      ... ...    ....... .....     90
Table 2 - Vehicles and Equipment - Operating and
Mantenance Cost. . .  ............. ............... .       91
Table 3 - Timber Corporation Sales Prices, 1981s................         92
Table 4 - Assumptions Used for Calculations of Stumpage Value..           93



-5-
Table 5 - Calculation of Financial and Economic Stumpage
Values for Teak ...................... .     .. ....... .   94
Table 6 - Calculation of Financial and Economic Stumpage
Values for Eucalyptus ................. . . ....... .       95
Table 7 - Calculation of Economic Stumpage Value for
Telepoles, Construction Poles and Firewood.........         96
Table 8 - Financial Prices, Economic Prices and Conversion
Factors .......            ..... ..... ..... ......         97
ANNEX 11 - FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF BUDGET IMPACT
Table 1 - Calculation of Proiect Revenues from Harvesting
and  Mature   Stands. .................................     98
Table 2 - Calculation of Project Revenues from Thinnings......           99
Table 3 - Calculation of Total Project Revenues................    100
ANNEX 12 - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table    - Economic Cost and Benefit S e          treams                101
Chart 1 - Discount Rateate...........                      ...          102
Chart 2 -Percentage Shortfall in Benefits....................    103
CHARTS
World Bank 24092 - Forest Department Organizational Chart
World Bank 24241 - Indicative Time Schedule for Consultants
and Major Studies
MAP
World Bank 16518 - Sri Lanka
LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
2.1 - Forestry Sector Institutions .             .                        4
2.2 - Forest Department Plantation Pra           ogram                    7
2.3 - Industrial Wood Consumption, 1 9 8 0                               10
4.1 - Project Plantation Program    .         .25
4.2 - Summary of Project Cost.  ........ *.        s .........so.....    32
4.3 - Inflation Rata................                   e...              33
4.4 - Proposed Financing Plan............ . e. . ...... ........         33
6.1 - Project Impact on Government Budget ...... ..... ............      43
7.1 - Economic Rate of Return.         ....... ........                  45
7.2 - Sensitivity Analysisn      a      ly........    ...... .   ....    47



I



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(FORESTRY I)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    In 1979, at the request of the Government, the Bank carried out a
Forestry Sector Review in Sri Lanka. The report 1/ identified as the main
constraints to development, a lack of reliable, basic data, an absence of
basic planning capacity and a severe shortage of trained personnel. In the
light of these findings, a first step project was proposed, consisting of:
(a) the preparation of a Forestry Master Plan;
(b) professional forester training;
(c) the expansion of technical training facilities; and
(d) the establishment of plantations to meet industrial
wood requirements.
1.02    The government of Sri Lanka obtained UNDP assistance for the prepara-
tion of a project along the lines proposed in the Sector Review. Swedforest
Consulting AB was selected for the preparation of the Master Plan and
Industrial Plantations components of the project and their final report was
submitted in April 1981. The Government itself undertook to prepare the
proposals for the training-component. For professional training, a committee
consisting of representatives of the University of Sri Jayawardenepura and
the Forest Department was formed, and for the training of forest rangers and
guards, the Forest Department prepared a program. The first Government
reports were dated February 1981. These were revised on the basis of IDA
comments and were presented to the appraisal mission upon arrival in
Sri Lanka.
1.03    Due to the strained budget situation in Sri Lanka, necessitating the
postponement of new public investments, the appraisal was delayed by about
one year. The project was appraised during April-May 1982 by a team consist-
ing of Messrs. Harald Stier (Economist and mission leader, IDA), Orhan Baykal
(Forest Specialist, IDA), Derek K. Paul (Forester, FAO/Bank Cooperative
Program) and Andre Lafond (Forest Education Specialist, consultant). During
appraisal, the mission found that the country had sizeable forest plantations
with overmature trees and that the management of existing plantations was
1/ Report No. 2672-CE, Sri Lanka Forestry Sector Review, Sept. 8, 1980.



-2-
severely neglected. Sound economics, therefore, dictated that priority be
given to the harvesting of mature stands where environmentally defensible and
to the better management of existing plantations before additional resources
were allocated for new plantations. With the main constraining factor being
the severe shortage of staff trained in forestry at all levels in the Forest
Department and in the country and their previous commitment to other
foreign-financed forest plantation schemes, the mission reduced the planta-
tion component in the preparation report by some 60% and instead introduced
into the project, schemes for the upgrading of existing plantations and for
the harvesting and replanting of mature stands. Because of the
above-mentioned budgetary constraint, project activities in 1983 had to be
kept below a ceiling of Rs 5 M.
1.04    As this is the first IDA appraisal of a forestry project in
Sri Lanka, Chapter II of this report contains a somewhat detailed
sub-sectoral description.  Further information is available in the project
file.
II. FORESTRY IN SRI LANKA
A. Forest Resources
2.01    The availability of data on forest and land resources in Sri Lanka is
scarce, out-of-date and highly unreliable. The most recent forest inventory
in Sri Lanka dates from 1960 and shows the situation in 1956, when the aerial
photographs on which the inventory is based were taken. At that time, a
total of 2.9 M ha (44%) out of the country's total land area of 6.6 M ha were
under closed forest cover. The forest cover in the Wet Zone was about 0.25 M
ha (17%), the Intermediate Zone 0.14 M ha (16%), and the Dry Zone 2.52 M ha
(60%). Since then, the area of closed for,,. has been reduced -4hstaratiallY
and is now estimated at about 1.6 M ha or about 24% of the total land area.
An extrapolation shows that if this rate of deforestation continues,
Sri Lanka's forests would be completely depleted in thirty years' time;
urgent measures are therefore necessary to arrest this trend.
2.02    For all practical purposes, the forest estate is completely owned by
the State. For administrative purposes, these forests are categorized as:
(a) "Forest Reserves" and (b) "Other State Forests". There is also an
intermediary group of "Proposed Forest Reserves" which are areas pending
reservation. The motivation behind the demarcation of "reserves" was to
bring such forests under permanent, sustainable management. Other State
Forests are not subject to any management and may be released for other land
uses. The Forest Department controls, and is responsible for, the management
of Forest Reserves and Proposed Forest Reserves. The responsibility for the
large, though scattered, Other State Forests is shared between the Forest
Department and the Government Agent (the highest civil servant at the dis-
trict level). In theory, all Other State Forests over 200 ha in the Dry Zone



-3-
and over 40 ha in the Wet Zone fall under the Forest Department and the
remainder under the Government Agent.
B. Contribution to the Economy
2.03    The share of value added by forestry in Sri Lanka's Gross Domestic
Product is estimated to be only about 1.5%, equivalent to Rs 1.2 B in 1981.
These figures tend to underrepresent the importance of the forestry sector
since they do not reflect its major role in providing cheap energy in the
form of firewood, particularly to the rural populations and the urban poor.
It has been estimated that firewood consumption in Sri Lanka is about 6 M m3
per annum, or about 0.4 m3 per capita. This represents over 60% of the total
national energy consumption. About 70% of the firewood is consumed by the
rural populations who rely entirely on traditional fuels for cooking and
heating and who are still able to collect most of their firewood requirements
locally. The bulk of the remaining 30% of the firewood is used by low income
urban dwellers and by the large number of tea factories. The forests are
also an essential part of the protection of the environment in Sri Lanka,
particularly in the Wet Zone which is characterized by heavy rainfall, high
elevation and steep slopes. Practically all the rivers rise in the upper
watershed of this region and nourish irrigated agriculture in the lowlands.
Moreover, clean and regulated stream flows are essential to the generation of
hydroelectric power, on which Sri Lanka is very dependent and for which there
is considerable further potential.
2.04    Until recently, Sri Lanka's wood production had been adequate to meet
the modest and slow growing domestic demand. However, with the rapid
deforestation now taking place in Sri Lanka, concerns for environmental
protection and preservation grew increasingly stronger. Lacking a sufficient
data base for a selective action based on technical considerations, the
Government, in 1977, stopped almost all exploitation of the forests in the
rich Wet Zone. As a result, in 1978, demand for industrial wood exceeded
domestic supply by over 30,000 m3 roundwood equivalent. The clearfelling of
some 30,000 ha of forest under the Mahaweli scheme and the salvage operations
of some 12,000 ha cyclone-damaged teak plantations has temporarily increased
supplies and brought down wood import requirements to rather negligible
quantities, but once these "windfalls" have been worked off, the shortage of
industrial wood will be increasingly felt.
C. Forestry Institutions
2.05    The main forestry sector institutions and others connected with wood
supply are listed in Table 2.1 with the ministries to which they report.



-4-
Table 2.1: FORESTRY SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
Ministry                                      Institution
A.  Ministry of Lands and Land              1.  Forest Department
Development                          2.  State Timber Corporation
3. Land Commissioner - Government
Agent (in respect of forests)
B.  Ministry of Industries and              1.  Ceylon Plywood Corporation
Scientific Affairs                   2.  National Paper Corporation
C. Ministry of State                        1.  Department of Wildlife Conservation
D.  Ministry of Coconut Industries          1.  Coconut Plantations (public and
private)
E.  Ministry of Plantation Industries  1.  Rubber Plantations (private)
F.  Janatha Estates Development Board  1.  Rubber Plantations (public)
G.  State Plantation Corporation            1.  Rubber Plantations (public)
2.06    The Forest Department is headed by the Conservator of Forests and he
has six Deputy Conservators of Forests located at headquarters in Colombo
responsible for (a) management, (b) research, education and extension, (c)
working plan and inventory, (d) planning and development, (e) special
projects and (f) commtLnity forestry (being added).  An organizational chart
is provided at the encL of the Report. Other professionals at headquarters
are: three administraLtive staff, three Assistant Conservators of Forests and
three Research Officers. For the field operations, the country is divided
into seven forest divisions headed by Divisional Forest Officers and assisted
by one or two professionals (18 in total). A division is divided into ran-
ges, headed by Range Forest Officers and beats, headed by Beat Forest
Officers (forest guards). In total, the Forest Department has 1,045 staff of
which 36 are professionals, 51 foresters, 189 range officers and 463 forest
guards. The remainder are mainly permanent plantation laborers.
2.07    The main responsibility of the Forest Department is the management
and protection of fore!st reserves, including plantations and reforestation
and development of forest resources. To do this properly requires informa-
tion and data on exist:ing resources, the potential for expansion and the



-5-
pattern and level of the country's needs. Such information would provide
the basis for the formulation of working plans for each reserve according to
specific objectives. However, the Forest Department has not gathered this
information. Although it is known that substantial changes have taken place
in recent years, both with respect to area and management objectives of the
forest estate, no forest inventory had been carried out since 1960 until it
was initiated, as a result of the Bank's Sector Review, with UNDP finance and
FAO assistance in early 1982. Also, the development of the necessary market
knowledge has been neglected.
2.08    The only visible activity of the Forest Department is plantation
establishment. The considerable real increase in the Forest Department
budget has been mainly spent on increased planting, but the post-planting
silvicultural treatment, on which the final yields and economic return
depend, has been neglected (paras 2.14-2.16). This emphasis on plantings was
the result of a combination of lack of data for proper management of the
natural forest and of a concentration on easily measured targets, expressed
as area planted, at the expense of the less easily identified activities of
maintenance and thinning.  At the root of all this is the severe shortage of
trained staff in the Department in relation to the level of its activities,
and this situation has progressively got worse. Available data shows that,
while the plantation activity has increased by 128% from 3,200 ha in 1961
to 7,300 ha in 1981, the professional and technical staff of the Forest
Department have only been increased by 29% and 22% respectively. If the peak
planting level of 12,500 ha in 1980 or planned planting levels of 10-12,000
ha over the next few years is taken for comparison, this relationship is even
worse and, of course, deteriorates further progressively as a larger area has
to be maintained each year. In addition, the Forest Department has no staff
economists or planners and a significant number of professional and technical
staff do not have the training required for their positions. The lack of
adequate training facilities for professional and technical staff has
increasingly become a serious constraint on the efficient operations of the
Forest Department.
2.09    The State Timber Corporation.  in 1968, the commercial division of
the Forest Department was separated and incorporated as the State Timber
Corporation. The executive power is vested in its chairman. Once the Forest
Department has marked the trees tor felling, the responsibility of the Timber
Corporation is to fell, extract, convert and market the wood. The felling
and extraction is mainly done by private contractors for the Timber Corpora-
tion. The bulk of the wood is sold from Timber Corporation depots to govern-
ment organizations and private dealers holding special permits. A grey area
in the division of responsibilities between the Forest Department and the
Timber Corporation has been the thinning of plantations (para 2.14). The
Forest Department's position is that it is the Timber Corporation's task to
carry out the thinnings, but the latter, being a profit-oriented organiza-
tion, declines this responsibility unless the thinnings are of commercial
value. As a result, little thinning has been carried out.



-6-
2.10    Other organizations operating in the forestry sector include the
Ceylon Plywood Corporation and the National Paper Corporation whose roles
are referred to below (para 2.28). The Government Agent in the district,
in theory, is responsible for the management of Other State Forest up to 200
ha in the Dry and 40 ha in the Wet Zone. However, in practice, the dividing
line tor Forest Department and Government Agents is less clear due to lack of
records and demarcation. The control at the central level for these Other
State Forests falls under the Land Commissioner in the Ministry of Lands.
Some forest reserves have been set aside for wild life management and their
management then falls under the Department of Wildlife Conservation under the
Ministry of State. In addition, agricultural plantations (i.e. tree crops
such as rubber and coconut) under various ministries contribute significantly
to total wood supply (almost 20%) and particularly to the supply of
industrial wood (about 40%). The many institutions and ministries involved
in the management of forests and the supply of wood makes coordination essen-
tial, but difficult. At present, each institution pursues its own objectives
and little attention is given to the overall effect of their activities.
D. Forest Operations
Wood Extraction
2.11    The natural forests in Sri Lanka have traditionally been looked upon
as an unlimited resource which supplied most of the country's wood require-
ments. Until recently, they were exploited through a selection felling
system. At present, most wood is supplied through clear fellings under the
Mahaweli scheme and through salvage operations of about 12,000 ha teak plan-
tations damaged in the 1978 cyclone. The size of operations and, hence, the
annual production target is determined by the need for land to be released
for agricultural development under the Mahaweli scheme and the progress of
the salvage operations rather than by timber demand. In 1981, 85% of Timber
Corporation roundwood production came from these sources. The Timber Cor-
poration mainly relies on private contractors for the felling, extraction
and transport operations. Although they have acquired some experience from
clearfelling in the natural forest in the Dry Zone in the last few years,
they have little or no experience in the clearfelling of plantations which
will gradually have to provide the bulk of the country's wood requirements.
The contractors have been slow to adilust their logging techniques and tran-
sport systems for efficient clearfelling operations. Important gains in
productivity could be made by drawing on experience in other countries
through the introduction of modern techniques and equipment.



-7-
Plantation Program
2.12    The increased awareness of the rapid deforestation in Sri Lanka has
recently led to continuously increasing plantation targets until this trend
was broken in 1981 when, due to the constrained budgetary situation, only
foreign aid assisted projects were allowed to continue. After the 1981
setback, the 1982-86 budget indicates that the Government intends to maintain
the plantation establishment at a level of 10-12 thousand ha per year. Table
2.2 shows recent plantation performance by the Forest Department.
Table 2.2: FOREST DEPARTMENT PLANTATION PROGRAM
(planted area in '000 ha)
Yearly Average,                        Total Existing
1968-72    1973-78    1979    1980    1981             Plantations
Dec. 1981
5.8        6.0       8.1    12.5      7.3               145.8
Of the existing plantations, about 63% is teak, 15% eucalyptus and 14% pines
and other softwoods.  The remaining 8% consist of miscellaneous and
unspecified species.  About one-half of Sri Lanka's plantations are under
ten years old and 30% are under five. On the other hand, statistics indicate
that there are mature and overmature plantations with some 4,000 ha eucalyp-
tus, often in mixture with Acacia and Cupressus that are over 40 years old.
Observations in the field confirmed that harvesting in some plantations is
overdue, particularly in the upland Wet Zone.
Planting Techniques
2.13    Plantations are established by the Forest Department either by using
hired labor or by "chena" (slash and burn) farmers. Mechanical land prepara-
tion and plantings are made on a trial basis only by the Timber Corporation.
Plantation establishment under the controlled chena system is much cheaper
than by using hired labor and is well-established in Sri Lanka as well as in
Burma (where it is called taungya). Under this system, land is leased to
the chena farmer for three years. The first year he clears it from trees
and shrubs before planting it to trees which he' intercultivates with his own
agricultural crop. The second year he has to weed the area for the Forest
Department and usually gets a catch crop from the area. The third year the
farmer again weeds the area, but usually doesn't sow it to any agricultural
crop. The farmers usually take on a new piece of land every year which at



-8-
any time gives them three lots, one each for the first, second and third year
of the lease. The Forest Department pays the farmer for his efforts. The
amounts are presently being revised and the Government is considering a
proposal to pay the farmers Rs 1,250 per ha the first year after successful
planting and Rs 250 each of the second and third years for the weeding. This
amount would have to be compared to about Rs 5,000 paid for hired labor to
carry out corresponding operations.
Forest Management and Silvicultural Practices
2.14    Most of the development resources of the forest department, for the
last decade or so, have gone into achieving a plantation establishment tar-
get, set higher for each year. Neither its financial nor its staff resources
were increased commensurately. Mainly as a result of this, but partly also
due to an unclear division of responsibilities between the Forest Department
and the Timber Corporation (para 2.09), the management of established planta-
tions has been neglected and was, in practice, nonexistent during the last
ten years.
2.15    Lack of weeding, survival and damage checks and subsequent remedial
action has resulted in many young plantations with large gaps, and deformed
or otherwise damaged trees. For eucalypts, unless they are given intensive
weeding the first two years after plantation, there is no prospect of
recovery thereafter. On this account, a substantial part of the over 10,000
ha young eucalyptus plantations, particularly in the Dry Zone, may be written
off as having little or no economic value. Most disappointing is that there
is no visible improvement in recent Dry Zone plantings under foreign-assisted
projects. As for teak, pine and mahogany, the Forest Deparment's records
show some 34,000 ha which have been planted between 1975-1980. Although some
of these plantations are beyond repair, a judicious salvage program of clean-
ing, singling and, for pines, pruning, could be expected to yield high
returns and should be given highest priority by the Forest Department.
2.16    Thinning and pruning of somewhat older plantations have also been
neglected. The bulk of such plantations is teak. If left without treatment,
the final yield will be well below the potential. In addition, the value of
the crop will be disproportionately low in relation to its volume because of
the small size stems which have a relatively lower price per m3. Many of the
teak plantations are degraded due to neglect, cyclone or elephant damage.
However, there are large areas of potentially valuable teak plantations which
would respond with high returns to an upgrading program, mainly through
thinning.
Research
2.17    The Forest Department's research program is seriously
under-resourced, both in terms of funding and, probably more importantly, in
terms of qualified staff. Although the head of the research program is



-9-
highly qualified, his services are in demand for other tasks because of the
lack of professional foresters in Sri Lanka. The research effort is lacking
a systematic plan and program. A number of good trials and experiments have
been laid out in the field, but many times, for lack of resources, these have
not been followed up and, although much data has been collected, it has not
been tabulated and analyzed and has been of little practical use. Some
research has been done on species selection and provenances, but one of the
most widely planted eucalyptus species, E. camaldulensis shows clear indica-
tions of suboptimal provenance and has performed so poorly that its use
should be discontinued until suitable provenances have been tested.
E. Wood Supply and Demand
General
2.18    For lack of statistics, any attempt to assess the current wood con-
sumption levels and pattern in Sri Lanka can only result in crude estimates.
Although several estimates have been made in recent years by various sources
(Bank, FAO, USAID, etc.) none has carried out a comprehensive survey, which
is long overdue. As a rough indication, total wood consumption is estimated
at 6.9 M m3 per annum, 6 M m3 for firewood and the 0.85 M m3 for industrial
purposes.
2.19    Although industrial wood and firewood are presently taken from the
same natural torests and agricultural plantations (rubber and coconut),
planning of future supplies is nonexistent. Firewood can be supplied from
any type of forests, including scrub forests, and is usually collected by the
consumers themselves. The relatively short rotation period for firewood
plantations -- which may be as low as three to five years -- makes it pos-
sible at least theoretically, to adjust to any market imbalances fairly
quickly. Industrial wood, on the other hand, requires certain log sizes and
qualities and needs at least 20 years to mature in plantations. Much longer
advance planning is therefore needed in the latter case.
Industrial Wood
2.20    The latest figures for industrial roundwood consumption in Sri Lanka
is given at 850,000 m3 in 1980 by Swedforest as detailed below in Table 2.3.
Of this total, about 135,000 m3 is supplied by the Timber Corporation (25,000
m3 from forest reserves and the remaining 110,000 m3 from the Mahaweli scheme
and teak salvage operations), over 300,000 m3 comes from rubber and coconut
plantations and the remainder from unidentified private sources and illicit
fellings.



-10-
Table 2.3: INDUSTRIAL WOOD CONSUMPTION, 1980
('000 m3 roundwood)
Destination                             Quantity
Sawmills                                      700
Pit-sawing                                     31
Plywood                                        27
Particle board                                 10
Parquet                                         4
Poles and Posts                                35
Matches                                        10
Pulpwood a!                                    30
Total                               847
a/  In the past, the pulp mills have used rice straw
and imported pulp.  This quantity has been used
for testing purposes.
2.21    In addition to domestic production, Sri Lanka has in the past im-3
ported about 10,000 m3 plywood equivalent of tea chests and about 3,000 m
of sawnwood annually between 1979 and 1981. At present, however, Sri Lanka is
self-sufficient both in sawnwood and in plywood as a result of the combined
effect of the deliberate reduction in public investment spendings which has
reduced the demand for industrial wood, and the temporary boost in log
production from the Mahaweli scheme forest clearings and the salvage
operations of cyclone-damaged teak. When the effects from these factors
cease being felt by the mid-1980s, imports are likely to resume again to help
meet a projected increase in demand of about 3% per annum into the next
century, according to FAO's projections. In volume terms, annual industrial
demand for roundwood would be about 1.3 M m3 by the year 2000.  Of this
demand, at best, 8-900,000 m3 could be supplied from domestic sources and
large imports would be required. The cost to import 0.5 I m3 of logs
represents some US $75 M. A properly established and managed man-made forest
is the only long-term answer for adequate and sustained wood supply. Since
the cutback in the Forest Department's program to include only foreign-assisted
projects, there is no major industrial plantation scheme. The bulk of foreign-
assisted plantations are for firewood (Annex 9, Table 1).
Firewood
2.22    Recent estimates of firewood consumption in Sri Lanka are based on
per capita usages that vary from 0.25 m3 (USAID) to 0.40 m3 (FAO) which, with
a population of 15.2 M, would give an annual overall consumption varying from



3.8 M m3 to 6.0 M m3. Considering that 94% of Sri Lanka's households use
firewood for their cooking needs, the higher figure appears more reasonable
and has been adopted for the purpose of this report. The large range in the
estimates, however, underscores the need for a systematic study of firewood
demand.
2.23    The supply system for firewood is difficult to identify.  The Timber
Corporation supplies only 10% of the estimated consumption; the rest is
either cut directly by the users -- which would be the case for most of the
rural poor -- or traded through private channels. A substantial quantity of
firewood -- of the order of 1 M m3 per annum -- is derived from non-forest
plantations, especially from rubber estates. The balance would come from
uncontrolled fellings both in forest reserves and other state forests and
from the farmers' homesteads. It should be noted that firewood is also used
by the tea factories.  They are supplied partly from adjacent forests, but
mainly from southwestern rubber plantations which are currently subject to an
active cutting and replanting program.
2.24    Since firewood is only one source of energy which, technically, may
be easily substituted, future demand for firewood will depend on the total
energy requirements and relative prices and availability of substitutes.
Thus, demand will always be strong from the rural poor for firewood which
they can collect gratis. Monetary demand for firewood (e.g. from fuelwood
plantations) would no doubt be much less. Since there will be large supplies
of "free" or cheap firewood from existing forests and other sources over the
next 20 years, firewood consumption is not likely to decline over this period
(para 2.26). On the other hand, if a constant per capita consumption is
projected, as ADB has done in a recent report, then firewood requirements
would increase from the present 6 M m3 to 8.2 M m3 by the year 2000.
2.25    It is much more difficult to establish the supply situation of
firewood than for industrial wood since almost any scrap wood will do and
since the bulk is non-commercial, consumed in rural areas and mostly cut and
transported by the users, therefore eluding most attempts of quantification.
2.26    A rough estimate may be made of the potential of existing forest
resources in the Dry Zone to contribute to the supply of firewood. The total
area of "dense" forest in the Dry Zone is 1 M ha and there is another million
ha of open torest and scrub land which would be sufficient to cover the
present estimated aggregate volume of consumption for another 20 years,
albeit the location of the forest is in relatively sparsely populated areas
and there would be a logistics problem. In addition, the bulk of the present
plantation program is for firewood.
2.27    Considering the above, together with the short rotation of firewood
plantations, and bearing in mind the importance of transport distance in
determining the economic viability of firewood plantations, there appears to



-12-
be no immediate need to enter into additional large scale firewood projects.
USAID stated in the project paper for their 8,000 ha firewood plantation that
"size and location may have to be adjusted with improved information on the
magnitude and location of demand". It would also appear that, because of the
low income levels of the consumers, more emphasis would have to be on farm
forestry than on firewood plantations if the population's energy needs are
to be met. An in-depth study of the firewood market should be given highest
priority and should precede any new large-scale investment in firewood plan-
tations.
F. The Forest Industry
2.28    Sawmilling strongly dominates the forest industry scene in Sri Lanka
with an estimated capacity of 425,000 m3 per annum of output. However, 90%
of the estimated 280 mills are in the private sector about which little is
known, but generally they are old, small, poorly maintained and operate
normally a single shift of no more than five hours. The State Timber Cor-
poration operates nine small sawmills, the Ceylon Plywood Corporation, two,
and 15-20 units are in the semi-public or cooperative sector. The Timber
Corporation further operates seven seasoning kilns and four impregnation
plants.  The Plywood Corporation operates the country's two plywood mills
with a rated capacity of 34,000 m3, but produces only about 12,000 m3.  It
also owns one particle board plant and a furniture factory. Sri Lanka also
has two pulp and paper mills operated by the National Paper Corporation with
a combined capacity of some 35,000 t of paper.  Rice straw, waste paper and
imported pulp provide raw materials for the Paper Corporation's plants.
Domestic wood has been tried, but the trials showed that the additional
investments that would be required to convert to this raw material would not
be economic considering the small size of the plants and the market in
Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka also has six match factories which are all in the
private sector.
2.29    The forest industry in Sri Lanka is static and has undergone little
change over the last decade. It is therefore old, but yet the profitabilitY
is said to be good. The increasing shortage of industrial wood expected by
the trade is given as the major reason for the lack of interest in new
investments. In the private industry, the fear of nationalization has also
been a factor. Because of this lack of development, the industry does not
have the equipment and know-how to utilize the exotic, fast-growing timber
species now being grown in plantations in the country. This problem would be
addressed by the project.



-13-
G. Forestry Training
2.30    In Sri Lanka, the grossly inadequate number of people at all levels
trained in forestry skills is perhaps the major single factor in explaining
the lack of planning and poor quality in forest operations. It is also the
major constraint on a reforestation and forest management program commen-
surate with the needs of the country.
2.31    Forest Ranger and Forest Guard Training.  The Sri Lanka Forest Col-
lege at China Bay was established in 1959 and is the only institution in the
country for forestry training. Presently a one year in-service course for
12-15 forest guards and a three month orientation course for rangers and
guards is the only forestry training offered in Sri Lanka. Forest rangers
used to be trained in Coimbatore and Dehra Dun in India, but in recent years
it has become progressively more difficult to place them there due to the
great demand to train India's own personnel. 1/ The training facilities at
China Bay have insufficient capacity and the actual training is geared only
to the elementary, practical aspects of forestry in an effort to bridge the
Forest Department's most pressing needs. As a result, there is a serious
backlog in training. Out of the Forest Department's 463 guards, 242 are
without training and, out of the 189 rangers, 178 are reportedly without
training. USAID is presently providing material and technical assistance for
the introduction of a two-year course for forest rangers with an annual
intake of some 25 students. USAID is also providing technical assistance to
improve the syllabus for the training of forest guards. However, the forest
guard training facilities also urgently need rehabilitation and expansion.
The Government has requested IDA assistance to do this, which has been made
part of the proposed project (para 4.19).
2.32    Professional Training.  There are no facilities in Sri Lanka for the
training of professional foresters. Traditionally, this has been done in
Dehra Dun in India, but as for rangers, access has become increasingly dif-
ficult and new options need to be found. At present, it is not possible to
find persons with professional forestry training to fill vacant positions
in the Forest Department. Out ot 33 professional forester positions, seven
are vacant. Only six of the Department's professionals have a full univer-
sity level forestry education, eight have other degrees plus a forestry
diploma and the remainder have other non-forestry degrees. The proposed
project seeks to ameliorate this situation (para 4.17 et seq).
1/ In addition, the Bank has recently concluded that the forest institutes
and forestry training in India needed considerable strengthening to meet
the country's needs.



-14-
H. Government Plans and Policies
2.33    According to Sri Lanka's Public Investment Plan of 1982-86, the main
long term objectives of the forestry sector are:
(a) Conservation, protection and scientific management of
natural and man-made forests;
(b)  reforestation of all steep, erodible and denuded lands in
the mountain catchments;
(c) planting of fast-growing firewood species; and
(d) development of forest plantations to meet, industrial and
other requirements.
2.34    The targets for activities towards meeting these general objectives
seem to be changing haphazardly, reflecting various pressures within and
outside the government and annual plantings appear to be a function of left-
over budgetary funds rather than based on some quantitative long-term
development target. The lack of information and data on resource potential
and the country's needs does not permit the preparation of a convincing
development proposal. The shortage of skilled manpower is a major factor in
this.
2.35    To overcome this, the preparation of a long-term plan for forestry
development with operational goals is of the highest priority. Before the
sector objectives can be quantified, however, the necessary data must be
collected. The constraint of shortage of local skilled manpower could only
be overcome by using foreign expertise until local skills have been developed
in sufficient number.
I. External Assistance to Forestry
2.36    IDA Assistance - The proposed project would be the first IDA assis-
tance aiming specifically at forestry. Previous IDA assistance to the sector
has been mainly as part of tree crop, diversification, and rural development
projects. Annex 9, Table 1 provides a summary of foreign-assisted plantation
establishment. Credit 818-CE for Tree Crop Rehabilitation included finance
for tea estates to plant 590 ha with eucalyptus for firewood. Credit 819-CE
for Tree Crop Diversificaton provided funds for estates to plant 3,700 ha
with eucalyptus and pines for firewood and timber respectively. Credit
1079-CE, the Second Rural Development Project included the planting by the
Forest Department of 6,700 ha of abandoned chena lands, steep and high eleva-
tion grasslands, degraded tea plantations and Mahaweli catchment areas.



-15-
Finally, Credit 1166-CE, The Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III provides
for the establishment of 1,500 ha of firewood plantations. Generally, the
plantings under these projects have progressed in line with set targets. The
projects are all still under implementation and the established plantations
are still too young for a judgment of their quality.
2.37    UNDP/FAO Forest Inventory - In order to advance the preparation of
the Master Plan under the proposed project, FAO started a first part of a
forest inventory in January 1982 with UNDP finance. The scope and priorities
of the inventory had previously been agreed between the Government, FAO/UNDP
and IDA. The total forest inventory will cover an area of 2.3 M ha, 1.3 M ha
of which is closed natural forests and forest plantations and the remaining 1
M ha is open degraded forest estate.  Only some 0.6 M ha of forest in
national parks, game sanctuaries, etc., would not be included in the inven-
tory. The ongoing FAO/UNDP project is funded until the end of 1984 by which
time the priority area of 1.3 M ha of closed forest should have been inven-
toried.
2.38    Other Donors - Under various integrated rural development projects,
NORAD, SIDA and Dutch aid has been provided for the establishment of, in
total 8,700 ha firewood plantations between 1979 and 1984. Over the period
1980-1984, USAID is financing the establishment of 14,000 ha firewood planta-
tions on degraded chena land and the afforestation of 6,000 ha in the Upper
Mahaweli Catchment area to be used mainly for firewood. ADB is financing
establishment of 14,000 ha firewood plantations and 4,300 ha farmers' wood-
lots between 1982 and 1987. Five 25-ha community woodlots on an experimental
basis and six demonstration woodlots totalling 220 ha are also included in
the ADB project. Several other projects are under discussion. The CIDA
Lower Uva Regional Project proposal contains a significant forestry com-
ponent. World Food Programme assistance for plantation establishment is also
being considered.
2.39    In addition to plantings, the USAID-financed project also includes
experimental village charcoal production, training, research and extension
components and 124 man-months of technical assistance. In addition to
improvements in the China Bay technical training facilities (para 2.31), 347
man-months of short term and 14 man-years of long term professional training,
in all 42 man-years, will be provided abroad over five years until 1985. It
is ironic, but it appears unavoidable that this will have a serious impact on
the availability of professional stafftime in the Forest Department over the
same period. The 42 man-years of overseas training represent 25% of avail-
able professional staff time in the Forest Department. Some of those trained
may come from outside the Forest Department, but this will not change this
general conclusion, particularly considering that ADB also provides almost
ten man-years of professional training overseas until 1987.
2.40    A Swiss Satellite Imagery Project is assisting the Survey Department
to prepare a land use map which, together with ongoing aerial photography and



-16-
ground control, will provide an essential input into the forest inventory
under the proposed project. In addition, there is a great deal of other
foreign assistance to the sector, not directly related to the proposed
project, notably to forest industries, and it is difficult to get a complete
picture due to the lack of coordination in the subsector. In fact, the lack
of a long-term forestry sector strategy and quantifiable objectives with
clear plans how these would be met, has led to foreign donors choosing
projects which reflect their own priorities and concerns rather than neces-
sarily Sri Lanka's needs. The result is numerous, unrelated stop-gap
activities and an inefficient use of available resources.
J. Constraints to Development
2.41    Arising from the previous discussion, it is apparent that the major
constraints on a forestry development program commensurate with Sri Lanka's
needs and aspirations are:
(a) the grossly insufficient number of people in Sri Lanka with
forestry training at all levels; and
(b) the lack of a long-term comprehensive sector plan and the lack
of data for planning.
2.42    The primary and most serious limiting factor is the shortage of
people trained in forestry. The shortage of people with forestry skills can
only be overcome with training and this is recognized in the proposed
project. To train professionals, however, requires some time which will have
to be bridged by drawing on foreign expertise.  Because of the urgency in
arresting the trend of deforestation and to establish new forest resources
through plantations in target-oriented programs, there is also an immediate
need for a forestry master plan as a framework within which such activities
can take place.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01    Two general areas have been identified for industrial plantations
under the project, one in the East within the Batticaloa and Amparai Dis-
tricts and the other in the South in the Hambantota and Moneragala Districts
(see Map in back of report). Forest protection, ground preparation trials
and a socioeconomic study would be carried out in these areas. Management of
teak plantations under the project would also mainly be carried out in these
locations. The urgent program to give silvicultural treatment to young teak,
pine and mahogany stands and species and provenance trials as well as the



-17-
Master Plan and the training would cover the whole country. The mature
plantations that would be harvested and replanted under the project are in
the upcountry forestry division, essentially in the district of Nuwara Eliya.
B. Climate
3.02    Although conditioned by altitude, the climate of Sri Lanka is
generally tropical, characterized by low variation in temperature around the
mean of 25o C and by heavy seasonal rainfall, which is carried by the south-
west (May-August) and northeast (October-December) monsoons. The island can
be divided into three clearly distinct agro-climatic zones (see Map): the
Wet Zone highlands, the Intermediary Zone in the southwest of the country,
and the Dry Zone to the north and the east.
3.03    The project areas in the East and South of the country are in the Dry
Zone. The East receives between 1,500 and 2,000 mm annual rainfall and the
South between 900 and 1,600 mm. The lower rainfall in the South, which
receives rain during both monsoons, is better distributed than the total
higher rainfall in the East, which only receives the NE monsoon.  The
evapotranspiration is close to the average yearly precipitation, therefore,
water deficits can be expected during many months, particularly in the South.
During the NE monsoon, cyclones occur, mainly in the Eastern area, more
seldom in the South. The damage caused by the 1978 cyclone is considered
exceptional, however. From a forestry point of view, a more important
problem is the hot desiccating winds blowing from June to September which
contribute to a high evapotranspiration.
3.04    The replanting of mature plantations will take place in the
Up-country areas, where the annual rainfall varies from 3,000 to 5,000 mm and
from a low monthly rainfall of about 100 mm in January to a high in June of
about 900 mm.
C. Soils, Land Use, Population and Infrastructure
3.05    Both plantation areas, in the East and the South, are underlain by
pre-cambrian rocks with frequent outcrops, particularly in the East. The
dominating soil types in the Dry Zone project area are reddish brown earths
and non-calcic brown soils with their drainage associates in undulating
terrain. The Up-country area is characterized by mostly rather acid,
red-yellow podsols and wet mountain regosols with a broken and steep topog-
raphy.
3.06    The selected project areas in the South and the East of the Country
are mainly abandoned chena lands, but some severely cyclone-damaged teak
plantation areas are also included in the East. Some encroachment still
occurs, but this is generally limited to the vicinity of motorable tracks.
There are, however, free ranging cattle in parts of the project area which,



-18-
if not controlled, could cause damage to young plantations. Likewise, there
is also a fairly rich wildlife in the area and in recent years some young
teak plantations have been damaged by elephants. The reason is not fully
known, but the Department of Wildlife Conservation maintains that, because of
the recent large rural development schemes, the elephants have been deprived
of access to customary feeding grounds resulting in hunger-induced stress.
3.07    The total population of the Southern project districts is about
680,000, of which 90% are rural. The total population of the Eastern project
districts is about 720,000, of which about 80% is rural. The population
densities in these areas are low with about 160 per km2 in the south and 130
in the east, compared to a country average of about 220 and about 425 in the
Nuwara Eliya district. The transportation network and infrastructure in the
project area, as in the rest of Sri Lanka, is well-developed and would need
no extra investments to meet the project needs.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Main Features
4.01    The main objectives of the proposed project would be:
(a)  to provide Sri Lanka with a Forestry Master Plan and
a detailed investment program for a first time-slice
of five years;
(b)  to strengthen the country's training for forest staff,
both formal and in-service;
(c)  to assist Sri Lanka in making best use of existing staff
and forest resources, firstly through investments in the
management of existing forest plantations and, secondly,
in the limited establishment of new plantations to meet
the foreseen industrial wood shortage; and
(d) to strengthen research and trial programs to pave the
way for future gains in sector productivity.
4.02    The project would cover a six-year period from 1983 to 1988 but, due
to the budgetary constraint (para 1.03), the cost of activities in 1983
cannot exceed Rs 5 M (US $240,000). The project would include the following
major components:



-19-
(a)  Formulation of a Forestry Master Plan and a five-year
Investment Program based on the following activities
and studies:
(i)    Strengthening of Planning
(ii)   Institutional Development Study
(iii)  Forest Inventory
(iv)   Preparation of Forest Management Plans
(v)    Assessment of Non-Forest Wood Resources
(vi)   Wood Market and Demand Study
(vii)  Forest Industry Study
(viii) Wood Utilization Study
(ix)   Logging and Transportation Study
(x)    Analytical Cost Accounting Study
(xi)   Establishment of Data Bank
(b)  Forestry Training:
(i)    Training of professional foresters.
(ii)   Forest guard and forest ranger training.
(iii)  In-service training.
(c)  Plantations:
(i)    Establishment of 8,000 ha industrial plantations.
(ii)   Management ot 10,000 ha teak plantations.
(iii)  Silvicultural treatment of 15,000 ha young stands.
(iv)   Harvesting and replanting of about 1,000 ha of
over-mature stands.
(v)    Species' provenance trials.
(vi)   Land clearance and ground preparation trials.
(vii)  Forest protection.
(viii) Socio-economic study.
(ix)   Soil/Site survey.
B. Detailed Description
Master Plan
4.03    Aims and Strategy - To remedy the lack of planning in the sector,
the project would provide a technical assistance program for the preparation
of a Forestry Sector Master Plan and a five-year investment program. Terms
of reference for the consultants are available in the project files. The
project would cover the costs of foreign experts and local staff, vehicles
and equipment needed for the preparation of the plan and the investment



-20-
program which would be coordinated by a Planning Unit to be established under
the project within the Ministry of Lands and Land Development. Because of
the long rotation periods of tree crops, the planning horizon would have to
be rather long-term. Within this long-term perspective with broader goals,
more specific development targets would be defined for a shorter period of
about 20 years which would coincide with the rotation period of plantations
of fast-growing tree species and with the duration of the working plans being
prepared for the natural forest. To ensure the follow-up and implementation
of the plan, the project would also include the preparation of a detailed
operational five-year investment program as the first phase of this plan.
The main planning activities and studies under the project are described in
the following paragraphs.
4.04    Strengthening of Planning - The coordination of the Master Plan
preparation would be carried out by a Planning UJnit. It is essential that
this unit is placed at a sufficiently high administrative level to ensure an
effective and authoritative coordinating function and, as the key policy and
decision maker, the Ministry of Lands would have to be in charge of the plan
formulation. Therefore, the Forestry and Environment division of the Minis-
try -- which already, though seriously under-resourced, is charged with the
sector planning and coordinating function -- would be reorganized and
strengthened to undertake the planning task and assume the role of the Plan-
ning Unit. The director of the division would be the head of the Planning
Unit and have the principal responsibility of processing and developing the
plan. The project would recruit a senior planning advisor for three years
starting in July 1983 and an economist for 18 months, starting in January
1984, to assist the director.
4.05    The Planning Unit would consist of three "desks" responsible for:
(a) plan development;
(b) programming, monitoring and evaluation; and
(c) data collection and storage (data bank).
Each desk would be manned by one qualified officer. Senior staff of the Unit
would also include one project accountant and one administrative officer.
The project would engage a data processig consultant for three months in 1984
to assist the data bank officer and to design data processing, storage and
retrieval systems and an automated report production system. The data bank
would use computer facilities available at the Timber Corporation. The
project would include office rental and the staffing of the Planning Unit.
Also, the project would provide three vehicles, office equipment and furni-
ture for the Unit.
4.06    Institutional Development Study - Since many of the forestry sector's
weaknesses in the past have been of an organizational and institutional
nature, a study would be carried out by the Planning Unit with a view to



-21-
strengthening the sector institutions and rendering its organization more
effective. Special attention would be given to the long discussed merger of
the Forest Department and the Timber Corporation and to future manpower
requirements of the sector.
4.07    Forest Inventory - The proposed project would extend the FAO/UNDP
project by a further 12 months until the end of 1985 to cover the entire
forest resources of the country. The intensity of the forest inventory would
vary according to the category of forest with a higher intensity in more
productive forests. Three main categories may be distinguished:
(a) Management inventory for productive natural forests
(about 0.2 M ha);
(b) Management inventory for established plantations
(about 0.1 M ha); and
(c) Indicative inventory of Dry Zone unproductive closed
forests as well as scrub forest, open forest and
sparsely used agricultural land.
The project would extend and finance the forestry inventory expert for 12
months in 1985 and a photo-interpretation expert for three months in 1984. In
addition, the project would provide for local staff costs. Five vehicles
would be procured to permit the expansion in the number of field crews.
4.08    Preparation of Forest Management Plans - Progressively with the
completion of the inventory, working plans would be prepared for convenient
management units to permit the effective exploitation and management of the
forests. The project would provide a forest management expert starting in
January 1984 for 18 months to assist and to train the staff in the Forest
Department in preparing and implementing the management plans.
4.09    Assessment of Non-forest Wood Resources - The supply of wood from
agricultural plantations, mainly coconut and rubber, is not well documented.
It has been estimated that as much as two-thirds of the industrial wood and
about 15% of fuelwood is supplied from these sources. A study would be
carried out under the project to assess the present and future supply of
agricultural plantation wood. The consultant economist in the Planning Unit
would be responsible for the design and the implementation of this study.
The new land-use maps, together with information from the Plantation Minis-
tries, would provide the main data base which would be supplemented with a
series of field surveys with the assistance of Forest Department field staff
and locally recruited consultants, for which funds have been made available
under the project.
4.10    Wood Market and Demand Study - The lack of adequate information on
the wood market has been referred to (para 2.18). To fill this gap, a study



-22-
would be carried out of the structure, geographical distribution and mag-
nitude of the market for wood and wood-based products. The study would aim
at identifying wood products, markets, prices and current supply systems.
The study would also give projections of demand for wood and wood-based
products. Special attention would be given to assessing the trend in
firewood demand and to the impact of the Mahaweli scheme. The terms of
reference for the study would be prepared by the Planning Unit in collabora-
tion with the Timber Corporation. The study would be carried out by a local
consulting group and financed under the project.
4.11    Forest Industry Study - This study would identify the development
needs of the mechanical wood industry. Particular attention would be given
to capacities, processing techniques and economics. The project would
provide a consultant for three months in 1984 to carry out the study. Coun-
terpart staff would be provided by the Timber Corporation.
4.12    Wood Utilization Study - The project would provide three months of
consultancy in 1984 to determine the best handling and processing methods and
usage of both natural forest and plantation grown tree species. Particular
attention would be given to exotic species like eucalyptus and pines now
grown in plantations. The Timber Corporation and the Forest Department would
provide counterpart staff for the study.
4.13    Logging and.Transportation Study - Wood in Sri Lanka has tradition-
ally been extracted exclusively from the natural forest, mainly by contrac-
tors through selection telling, but recently also through clearfelling under
the Mahaweli Scheme. The logging and transportation techniques are however
little adapted to the felling of plantations. The project would provide a
consultant for three months in 1984 to study the potential for improving the
productivity of logging and transport operations and would, in particular,
define logging and transportation systems suitable for the forest areas in
the Wet Zone and Up-country in view of their environmental significance and
for plantations. The Timber Corporation and the Forest Department would
provide counterpart staff for the study.
4.14    Analytical Cost Accounting System - Like other government depart-
ments, the Forest Department's accounting is made on a cash basis which
provides insufficient information for effective cost management. The project
would provide a consultant for six months in 1984 to review the present
recording system and to design a cost accounting and information system which
will meet modern management needs. The project would also provide an addi-
tional accountant in the Forest Department who would be trained to manage
the system. The system would also enable the Planning Unit to monitor and
evaluate project progress.



-23-
4.15    Forestry Data Bank - The Planning Unit would identify the data needs
for forestry sector planning and organize its collection. This data would be
computerized and the project would provide a three month consultancy in 1984
to design the data storage, processing and retrieval system.
Forestry Training
4.16    In Sri Lanka, the scarcity of people trained in forestry has been
identified as probably the major constraint to the development of the
country's forest resources. On the basis of a major FAO study, 1/ with
adjustments for more recent information, Sri Lanka's requirements of trained
forestry staff in the year 2000 has been estimated as 200 professionals and
613 technicians (foresters and forest rangers). To meet this target and
allowing for retirement of present staff (40%, considering age structure),
there is a need for 13 professional graduates and 30 additional technicians
each year. The training of technicians is part of the USAID-financed project
(para 2.31). The proposed project would provide professional training, but
would also strengthen the training of forest guards (para 4.19).
4.17    Professional Training - The project would support the introduction of
a two-year, postgraduate course in forestry which would provide 12-15 stu-
dents annually with a MSc in forestry. For this purpose, a forestry program
would be established at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura near Colombo,
within its Faculty of Applied Sciences, Department of Botany. The entry
requirement would be a BSc in biology or agriculture with a good basis in
mathematics.  Criteria, satisfactory to IDA, for the selection of the can-
didates for the course have been prepared by the University. As is the
practice for postgraduate studies, the students would be charged a fee of Rs
5,000 for the two-year course. Some of the candidates are expected to be
supported through various scholarships from public and private sector
organizations. In cases of extreme hardship, the University may waive the
fee for suitable candidates. Curricula for the courses have been prepared
with IDA assistance (available in project file). The project would include a
building with the necessary teaching facilities comprising a lecture theatre,
laboratories and staff offices, and a greenhouse for the growing of silvicul-
tural study material. Laboratory equipment, glassware, chemicals, field and
camping equipment, as well as four vehicles for the field trips and forest
tours will also be provided. A detailed list of equipment and materials to
be procured is available in the project file. Summary costs are given in
Annex 3, Table 1.
1/ Reappraisal of Forestry Education and Training Needs in Selected
Countries in Asia and the Far East, FAO, 1978



-24-
4.18    Most of the personnel required for the teaching of the program will
come from the Botany Department at the University or from the Forest Depart-
ment. Funds for visiting lecturers and for support staff are provided under
the project. 120 man-months of local consultancy are also required and are
included in the project. In addition, three foreign consultants are needed
to teach for a period of two to three months each of the first three years
(total 24 months) in forest planning and policy, logging and wood transporta-
tion and in photogrammetry and photointerpretation. Four or five visiting
professors would be invited for short periods (one month) for the duration of
the project (total 14 months) to lecture on special topics of forestry. Four
scholarships for a period of two years each would be offered at foreign
forestry schools so that young foresters could be trained in fields where no
specialist is presently available in Sri Lanka and who could subsequently
replace the foreign consultants. Assurances were obtained from the Government
that the University would prepare a training program for the scholarships for
IDA review by December 31, 1983. Funds have also been included for short,
4-6 weeks study tours abroad for professional forestry staff. Assurances
were obtained from the Government that the Project Director, with the assis-
tance of the Senior Planning Advisor, would prepare a program for such train-
ing for IDA review before December 31, 1983.
4.19    Forest Guard Training - Most of the requirements for forest rangers'
training at the China Bay Forest College are being taken care of under USAID
financing. The College would then have facilities to take in 25 forest
rangers (for two years' training) and 15 forest guards (for one year's train-
ing) each year. This would result in a disproportion between rangers and
guards. In addition, existing forest guard facilities are below any hygenic
standards, not conducive to effective learning and need improvements. The
project would increase the annual training capacity of guards to 30 and
provide facilities for the three-month orientation courses for new recruit
rangers and guards, short-term training courses for Timber Corporation
officers, assistant government agents and others involved in forestry. The
project includes the construction of a new hostel lodging 30 forest guard
trainees, a new kitchen and 14 twin cottages for junior staff. The old
kitchen would be demolished, the sanitary facilities of the old hostel
rebuilt and other minor renovations would be carried out. Four vehicles
would be provided for the field work and the tours in the different forest
regions. Appliances and furniture would be provided for the houses. Office
equipment, laboratory, field and camp equipment would also be purchased under
the project, as well as chemicals, reagents and technical literature. A
detailed list of all items to be procured, with cost estimates, has been
prepared and is available in the project file. A summary is provided in
Annex 3, Table 2. Curricula for forest rangers and guards are being prepared
by a USAID consultant who started his work during appraisal.



-25-
Plantations
4.20    Plantation Establishment - The project would provide funds for the
establishment of 8,000 ha of industrial plantations in Dry Zone sites in the
Batticaloa and Amparai districts in the East and Hambantota and Moneragala
districts in the South of the counte survey under the project would provide
the basis ry. A soil and site survey under the project would provide the
basis for exact site selection (para 4.39). Annual planting targets would be
set as follows:
Table 4.1: PROJECT PLANTATION PROGRAM
(hectares)
Year
Division              1984      1985     1986      1987     1988       Total
Eastern                250       510      940    1,350    1,950        5,000
Southern               200      300       500    1,000    1,000        3,000
Total                450      810    1,440    2,350    2,750         8,0
The phasing is based on the experience in Sri Lanka where the lack of staff
trained in the precepts of sound forestry practices has led to the current
situation with thousands of ha of plantations (including those assisted by
foreign aid) stagnating due to silvicultural neglect. It is, therefore,
considered prudent to limit the planting targets in the initial years to
ensure successful establishment through intensive husbandry and management.
One of the main objectives of the plantation program is to train, by example,
supervisory staff, workers and chena farmers in appropriate field techniques.
Foreign technical assistance would be essential for the improvement in plan-
tation practices and the project would provide 43 months of plantation
advisor services.
4.21              - Species Selection:  About 75% of the plantings would be
with Eucalyptus tereticornis and Eucalyptus citriodora. Fifteen percent
would be with Albizia odorotissima, Azadirachta indica and Gmelina arborea on
a pilot plantation basis because of their promising performance in the Dry
Zone. The remaining ten percent would be Teak (Tectona grandis) (Annex 9,
Table 2). Because the quality of existing teak plantations generally is
superior to that of other species, teak would have played a more important
role in the plantation program were it not for disturbing evidence of
elephant damage to young stands (para 3.06). Assurances by the Wildlife
authorities that the stressful situations to which elephants were subject at
the time of damage no longer exist are difficult to substantiate. Teak
plantings under the project would, however, be kept away from the elephants'



-26-
normal feeding areas and migratory routes which are well known. The teak
plantations would also be kept relatively small and closely monitored for
elephant damage. The outcome of this experience would then provide a basis
for future decisions on teak plantations. Whilst Eucalyptus tereticornis and
citriodora grow well in the project area, they are not optimal species for
production of construction grade lumber. Other options should be considered
for meeting future timber needs such as growing pines in the Wet Zone and
other potential lumber species in the Dry Zone. During the life of the
project, it is intended to develop the technical packages which would make it
possible in the future, significantly, to increase the planting of species of
proven sawlog quality such as Gmelina, Albizzia, Azadiracta and conifers.
4.22                 Nurseries:  Only two nurseries are envisaged, one in each
plantation area. The exact locations of the nurseries would be determined
only when the proposed soil/site survey has been completed. The project
would provide funds for the establishment and operations of the nurseries.
In each nursery an office-cum-store, pumphouse, water tank and potting shed
would be built with project finance. To assure the regular supply of water
on which these seedlings depend, two waterpumps would be supplied to each
nursery. They would further each be supplied with one 7-ton lorry for the
transportation of soil and seedlings and one 125 cc motorcycle.
4.23                 Planting:  Plantings will be carried out manually either
under the controlled "chena system" (para 2.13) or by using hired labor. The
availability of chena farmers and the suitability of land for slash and burn
cultivation sets the upper limit for the area planted with this much cheaper
method. For proper root penetration and optimum yields, certain areas with a
hardpan at depth would have to be machine ripped. The proposed soil/site
survey would establish the extent of the area needing this treatment. Equip-
ment for ripping is available in Sri Lanka on a rental basis. Funds have
been provided in the project for the ripping of one-quarter of the plantation
area.
4.24                 Plantation Maintenance:  A certain mortality among the
seedlings after planting is always expected and such vacancies would be
filled as required. Also, the rate of survival and of early growth of the
plantations depend on the moisture and nutrients retained by the tree crop
and, therefore, on the elimination of any competition. To this end, the
plantations would be subiect to an intense weeding regime with six or seven
weedings during the three years following the date of planting. Since, in
the past, lack of maintenance was the main cause of failure of plantations,
agreement was reached that the prescribed maintenance would be carried out
on plantations established under the project and that a program for such
maintenance would be prepared annually by the Forest Department.



-27-
4.25                 Plantation Headquarters:  In each plantation area, an
office-cum-quarters would be constructed for the assistant conservator in
charge. The project would also provide two pickups and two four-wheel drive
vehicles to meet the transport needs in each plantation area.
4.26                 Staff Housing:  Much of the success of the plantation
project (e.g. for protection purposes) would depend on the staff living on or
near the nursery and plantation sites. The project would therefore construct
some housing in the field. The design of the houses would follow standards
used by the Government for all its departments.
4.27      Management of Teak Plantations - The records show a total of some
30,000 ha of teak plantations in the Southern and Eastern Divisions. Many
of these are beyond repair due to neglect, cyclone or elephant damage.
However, there are still considerable areas of potentially valuable teak
plantations, the full extent of which will only be known after the completion
of their inventory in 1985.
4.28    Under the project, it is estimated that about 10,000 ha of such older
plantations would be upgraded, essentially through thinning. If left without
treatment, the period required to reach a certain economic girth would. be
considerably extended and yields would be below potential. Funds have been
provided for the marking operations which would be prescribed in the working
plans. The Timber Corporation would remove the marked trees. No project
funds have been allocated for the removal of the trees since the Timber
Corporation has assured the mission that such operations would be commer-
cially viable now with the completion of the salvage program of
cyclone-damaged teak, the reduced supply of wood from Mahaweli clearings and
with the projected increasing shortage of industrial wood. Assurances were
obtained from the Government that thinnings would be an integral part of the
working plans and that those marked under the project would actually be cut
and carried out.
4.29    As the inventory activities wind down in 1985, the rangers and guards
to lead the teams and vehicles (procured for the inventory) would become
available for the management of teak plantations. Seven rangers and seven
guards, after some training, with two laborers each would be able to carry
out the operations over the three years 1986 - 1988. Funds have been
included for the operating costs of required vehicles.
4.30    Silvicultural Treatment of Young Stands - Forest Department statis-
tics show that, for the six-year period from 1975 to 1980, some 34,000 ha of
teak, pine and mahogany were planted. Due to lack of staff and funds as a
result of the priority given to the establishment of new plantations, most of
these young stands have had little or no silvicultural treatment since the
year of planting. In a number of cases, especially in the earlier plantings
of 1975 and 1976, the crops will be beyond redemption, having been swamped by
weed growth. Based on field observations, some 50%, i.e., 15,000 ha, of



-28-
4.31    The areas to be treated would be identified on the basis of data
generated through the forest inventory and through field inspections and
scheduled treatments would be specified in the working plans. Assurances
were obtained from the Government that its Forest Department would prepare
annual programs for silvicultural treatment under the project for IDA review.
Such programs should be supported by 1:25000 scale maps permitting the iden-
tification of the areas proposed for treatment and necessary funds should be
included in the budget. A first such program should be presented to IDA by
June 30, 1983. The areas treated would be inspected by the Conservator or
his designate and at the end of the year a report would be prepared on the
implementation of the annual program (supported by map) with certification by
the Conservator that indicated areas had received prescribed treatment. The
proiect would provide funds for the labor to weed 3,000 ha each of the five
years 1984-1988. Supervision would be provided by regular divisional staff.
It is important to note that eucalyptus are not included among the species to
be treated under this subcomponent of the project. Unless eucalypts are
given intensive weedings in the first two years after planting, there is no
prospect of recovery thereafter.
4.32    Harvesting and Replanting of Over-mature Stands - In the Up-country
zone, there are some 2,000 ha of over-mature eucalypts, cypress and pine
plantations.  In their present condition, these stands show little additional
growth and are not utilizing the sites to the full potential. On about half
of the 2,000 ha where there would be no environmental effects, particularly
erosion, the project would harvest and replant 200 ha annually of these
plantations as prescribed by the management plans which would be prepared
under the project (para 4.08). The Timber Corporation would do the felling
and wood extraction on a commercial basis. The project would provide funds
for site preparation and for replanting. Supervision would be provided by
regular staff of the Forest Department in the Up-country division with advice
from the plantation and silvicultural research advisors.
4.33    Species and Provenance Trials - There is an urgent need to identify
additional fast-growing species, suited for Dry Zone plantations, and
provenances which could utilize the full potential of the land and provide
good quality timber. To a lesser extent, this is also true for the
Up-country Zone. It is proposed that, in the Dry Zone, trials be made with
eucalypts, pine and light hardwoods, both local and exotic. In the Upcountry
Zone, trials would be with species belonging to the genera Agathis,
Araucaria, Cupressus and Pinus. However, the final program would be designed
by the silvicultural research advisor, funded under the project, in coopera-
tion with Forest Department staff. The research advisor would make annual
visits to Sri Lanka in 1984 - 1986, each of two months duration. The project
would provide one vehicle, staff, operating costs and fencing (on the basis
of 65 ha) for the research program.
4.34    The Forest Department has a long history of species introduction and
trials. However, due to lack of staff, many of the trial plots were



-29-
neglected, and growth data, when recorded, was relegated to files where much
of it remains in the raw state. Before embarking on further species and
provenance trials, the research data available at headquarters and in the
field should be tabulated and analyzed and research/trial plots should be
checked for the current status. For this purpose, a small team consisting of
one biometrician, two input men and two office staff would be recruited under
the project for a period of six months. Existing inventory staff and divi-
sional field staff would carry out the measurements on the trial plots. A
mini-computer would also be purchased for this purpose and for other Forest
Department data treatment needs.
4.35    Land Clearance and Ground Preparation Trials - Experience elsewhere
in tropical countries has shown that, for optimum yields, it is essential to
plant eucalyptus in bare and cultivated ground and that this weed-free state
be maintained until canopy closure 2-4 years later. Land clearance of forest
cover can be achieved either manually, by machine or by some combination of
the two. Labor, in particular the chena system, is generally more economic.
However, if the forest cover is difficult to eradicate or if a "hard pan" is
present at depth in the soil, then machines may have to be used for clearing
and ripping. It is proposed to establish a total of 600 ha of Eucalyptus
tereticornis in a series of field trials in the Eastern and Southern project
areas using different combinations of men and machines. The trials will
determine the most suitable method of land clearance and soil preparation in
terms of minimum costs and maximum yields. The program will be designed by
the plantation advisor in consultation with the silvicultural research
advisor.
4.36    In order that the results from the trials are not marred in any way
by plant mortality or unthrifty growth, the trials should not begin until
1985 to allow the project to solve any nursery and establishment problems
that may arise. The trials would initially be limited to the Eastern area
under close supervision of the plantation advisor. They would then be moved
and repeated in the Southern area by which time any difficulties and unsatis-
factory techniques would have been eliminated. This limits the need for
procurement of necessary implements under the project to one set only. It
also affords local staff the opportunity of laying down trials with minimum
supervision since by 1987 the plantation advisor will no longer be in a
resident status but an annual visitor. The staffing would be the same as
for the species trials. The project would provide funds for the land clear-
ing and for the establishment of the trial plantations using hired machinery.
4.37    Forest Protection - In the dry season, plantations are particularly
vulnerable to fire, especially in the early years during the establishment
phase. The custom of burning brush after clearing from chena and other
burning, leads to fire destroying large areas of plantations. The project
would provide look-out towers, fire patrols, trained crews with communication
and fire-fighting equipment, fire protection belts and fire breaks for the
protection of the 8.000 ha of new plantations. A fire protection consultant



-30-
would also be provided to design the program and to train the firefighting
staff. He would also provide a plan for the protection of other forests in
Sri Lanka against fires. The advisor would make three annual visits to Sri
Lanka during 1984 - 1986, each of two months duration.
4.38    Socio-Economic Study - As elsewhere in the country, in the Eastern
and Southern project areas, there are large numbers of free-ranging domestic
cattle on the forest estate, including the project area. In addition to
generally abandoned chena land, some encroachment by a few chena farmers is
still occurring. To avoid damage caused by browsing and trampling of young
plants, cattle would have to be kept away from the plantation areas. This
may lead to conflicts with the local populations. Plantings may also lead to
conflicts with squatters. To evaluate the risks for conflicts, the magnitude
of the problem, and to propose concrete, realistic, and acceptable solutions,
the project would fund a socio-economic study which would be carried out
prior to plantation establishment. A local consultant would be engaged for
the purpose. Assurances were obtained that the study, following terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, would be completed and presented for IDA
review by June 30, 1984 and that, after consultation with the people con-
cerned, an appropriate course of follow-up action be discussed and agreed
with IDA.
4.39    Soil and Site Survey - Soil factors play an important role in modify-
ing the effects of climate and are sometimes dominant in determining the
suitability of a site for planting. Local variations, connected with topog-
raphy, not shown on available soil maps, are frequently more important than
regional variations associated with climate or geology.  The recurring pat-
tern of soil variation due to topography, known as the soil catena, is par-
ticularly common in the Eastern and Southern project areas. The project
would, therefore, provide funds for a soil and site survey which would be
used for the selection of the net 8,000 ha plantation area. The survey would
be carried out, in cooperation with the Forest Department, by the competent
government department or by a local consultant (terms of reference in project
file). Assurances were obtained that the soil survey would be completed and
presented for IDA review by June 30, 1984.



-31-
C. Implementation Schedule
4.40    The project would be implemented over the six-year period 1983-1988.
The six-year period is required because project activities in 1983 would have
to be limited to Rs 5 M, due to Government budgeting constraints. Project
activities in 1983 would, therefore, mainly include preparatory work for the
main project investments. In 1983, all consultants' contracts would be
finalized, both local and foreign. The team leader for the foreign consult-
ants would start his assignment in Sri Lanka on 1 July 1983 and make neces-
sary arrangements for the rest of his team. The plantation advisor should
start his assignment on 1 October 1983 in order to make the necessary
preparations for the nursery work. For the professional training,
preparatory work would start in January 1983 in order that the first courses,
not requiring consultants, may start in October 1983.  Designs of main civil
works should be finalized in 1983 and procurement documents prepared to
permit earliest possible deliveries in 1984 when budget funds become avail-
able. The socio-economic study and the soil and site survey would also be
undertaken in 1983.



-32-
D. Project Costs
4.41    Total costs of the six-year project, including contingencies, have
been estimated at Rs 316 M (US $15.0 M equivalent), of which Rs 99 M (US $4.7
M) is foreign exchange and a negligible amount duties and taxes (less than
US$0.1 M). The cost estimates are based on mid-1982 prices. Physical con-
tingencies (3.7% of base cost) have been applied individually to the various
cost items, but are generally nil on consultancy services and vehicles, nil
or 5% on plantation labor and local staff costs, 5 or 10% on equipment,
materials and operating costs and 10% on civil works. Summary project costs
are shown in Table 4.2 below and details are provided in Annexes 2 to 7.
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
as % of
----Million Rupees---    -----US$ Million---    Total
Master Plan                 14.0    31.1    45.1      0.67    1.48    2.15        69
Professional Training       9.0    15.2    24.2       0.43    0.72    1.15        63
Technical Training          5.9      3.9     9.8      0.28    0.19    0.47        40
Industrial Plantations    54.3    19.0    73.3        2.59    0.90    3.49       26
Management of Teak          2.1      1.0     3.1      0.11    0.04    0.15        31
Treatment of Young         22.4       -     22.4      1.07      -      1.07        0
Stands
Replant Mature Stands       4.1      0.2     4.3      0.19    0.01    0.20         5
Research and Trials         5.3      6.5    11.8      0.25    0.31    0.56        55
Base Cost
(in mid-1982 prices)   117.1    76.9   194.0        5.59    3.65    9.24       40
Physical Contingencies   5.8       1.4     7.2      0.27    0.07    0.34       20
Price Contingencies      93.8    20.6   114.4       4.47    0.98    5.45        18
Total Project Cost   216.7    98.9   315.6    10.33    4.70   15.03          31
Price contingencies (59% of base cost) are relatively high, reflecting the
high projected domestic inflation rate and the comparatively large investment
expenditures towards the end of the project due to the progressively increas-
ing plantation areas. Price escalations are based on the following inflation
rates:



-33-
Table 4.3: INFLATION RATE
(percent)
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Local                          20     20      15      12     10      10     10
International                  8.0    8.0    7.5    7.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
E. Financing
4.42      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 8.5 M (US$9 M) would finance 60% of
project costs. Co-financing arrangements are being made with FINNIDA which
has committed Finnmark 13.5 M (US$2.44 M) of grant aid to finance technical
assistance for the Master Plan and plantation activities under the project.
A draft Memorandum of Agreement between IDA and FINNIDA was drawn up at
negotiations. Co-financing arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be a
condition to effectiveness. The proposed financing plan is shown in Table
4.4 below.
Table 4.4: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
(US $ million)
GOSL        FINNIDA          IDA          Total
Civil Works                   0.08            -            0.70          0.78
Vehicles                                      -            0.43          0.43
Equipment and Materials       0.15            -            0.94          1.09
Technical Assistance
Master Plan                  -             1.60          0.23          1.83
Plantations                 -              0.84           -            0.84
Training                    -               -            0.51          0.51
Scholarships                   -              -            0.23          0.23
Local Consultants              -              -            0.29          0.29
Plantation Establishment
and Management              0.85            -            5.67          6.52
Operations & Maintenance    1.27              -             -            1.27
Salaries                      1.24            -             -            1.24
TOTAL                       3.59           2.44          9.00         15.03
Percent of Total              24             16            60           100



-34-
F. Procurement
4.43    Vehicles, equipment and materials totalling US $1.5 M would be
procured under the project.  Vehicles (US $0.4 M) would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.  Other
equipment and materials (US $D.9 M), because of the small quantities, the low
unit costs, and, for the training institutions often proprietary nature, are
not suited for international competitive bidding. Such equipment and
materials with individual contracts not exceeding $30,000 and no more than
two vehicles urgently needed for project implementation would be procured
through prudent shopping, which involves comparing prices from no less than
three independent foreign or local suppliers. In cases of proprietary and
highly specialized items, such as seeds requiring special qualitities and
books, direct purchase would be used; the amount involved is estimated at
US$0.2 M. In applicable cases, local manufacturers would be given a
preference margin of 15% on the c.i.f. price of the internationally offered
items or the relevant import duty, whichever is lower. Civil works (US$ 0.8
M) are small and scattered, consisting mainly of simple housing and training
facilities which would not be of interest to international bidders. There-
fore, contracts would be let after competitive bidding advertised locally
according to government procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. The local
contracting industry is well developed in Sri Lanka and adequate competition
should be offered. However, if due to the small size of the individual
contracts, no responsive bids or no bids at all are received, force account
work would be utilized. Plantation activities (US$6.5 M) would be carried
out either under Forest Department force accounts, or under contracts let
through competitive bidding advertised locally according to government proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA. Consultant services (US $3.5 M) would be procured
following procedures satisfactory to IDA.
4.44    The balance of the project cost consists of scholarships (US $0.2 M),
operating costs (US $1.3 M) and salaries (US $1.2 M).
G. Disbursements
4.45    Disbursements under the project would be completed by December 31,
1989, about one year after project completion. The seven year disbursement
period compares with about nine years for the typical IDA project in the
South Asia region, in agriculture. The difference is believed to be
reasonable considering that the small volume of simple procurements and civil
works will be done early during project implementation and that most funds
will be disbursed against plantation activities for which the Forest Depart-
ment has a good record of achieving physical targets. Disbursements (US $9.0
M) would be made for:



-35-
(a)  100% of foreign expenditure on directly imported vehicles,
equipment, furniture, books and materials (including plantation inputs and
materials) or 100% of ex-factory costs if locally manufactured
or 85% of expenditures if such imported goods are procured
locally (US $1.4 M);
(b)  100% of expenditure on technical assistance, consultants and
scholarships abroad (US $1.2 M);
(c)  90% of expenditures on civil works construction under the
project (US $0.7 M); and
(d)  90% of expenditure on plantation establishment and manage-
ment, and on research and trial plots (US $5.7 M),
4.46    Withdrawal applications for all categories, except for plantation
activities under (d) would be fully documented (US $3.3 M). Disbursements
for plantation activities under (d) above (US $5.7 M) would be made against
statements of expenditure on area planted or managed giving details of loca-
tion, area, type of expenditures, whether chena or contracted labor and unit
costs. The statements would be prepared by the assistant conservator in
charge of industrial plantations or, in the case of plantation management,
by the divisional forest offices. The conservator would verify that work
carried out conformed to appraisal specifications (project file) and would
countersign the statements. For plantings, criteria for satisfactory estab-
lishment and disbursement would be that the area had been weeded according to
appraisal specifications after planting and a survival rate of 80% six months
after planting. Documentation supporting this certificate, e.g. inspection
reports and maps clearly identifying the areas treated with cross references
to claimed expenditures, accounts and receipts would be retained by the
Forest Department and made available for review during project supervision.
Assurances were obtained that statements of expenditure would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (see also para 4.48).
H. Accounts and Audits
4.47    Each implementing agency would maintain separate proiect accounts in
a readily identifiable form to enable them to be audited independently from
overall accounts in a timely manner, The Project Director would be respon-
sible for the consolidation of the accounts. The project accounts, in addi-
tion to normal government cash-based entries, would record non-cash transac-
tions (e.g. procurements under procedure III) For easy identification and
monitoring, the classification of development expenditure would be similar to
that of the project report or appraisal report. A general format for such
proiect accounts has been agreed with the Auditor General (in project file)
who has agreed to provide assistance in the design of the project accounts.
Assurances were obtained that separate project accounts would be maintained



-36-
by the implementing agencies, and consolidated accounts by the Ministry of
Lands and these accounts should be designed and presented for IDA approval by
May 31, 1983. Such accounts should be designed in consultation with the
Auditor General and be acceptable to him.
4.48    Project accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA and in accordance with generally accepted auditing stand-
ards. For this purpose, the Auditor General would be an acceptable auditor.
Assurances were obtained that the project accounts would be submitted for
independent audit, and to IDA, within four months of the fiscal year end and
audited statements made available to IDA not later than eight months after
the end of such year. The audit report would include a statement verifying
that funds reimbursed by IDA against statements of expenditure had been used
for the purposes of the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation
5.01    The project would be implemented by three executing agencies.  The
Forestry and Environment Division (Planning Unit) would be responsible for
the Master Plan, the Forest Department for plantation activities and techni-
cal training and the University of Sri Jayawardenepura for professional
training under the project. Administratively, the Forest Department reports
to the Ministry of Lands of which the Planning Unit is a division. The
University falls under the aegis of the Ministry of Higher Education.
5.02    Overall, project implementation would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Lands and the Chief of the Planning Unit would be the Project
Director, the official with whom the responsibility for project coordination
procurement and reporting to IDA would be vested. The Project Director has
already been designated and participated in the negotiations. The government
budget for the project would be allocated to the Ministry of Lands from where
funds would be administratively reallocated to the respective implementing
agencies by the Project Director. This is in line with normal budget proce-
dures and would contribute to strengthening the Project Director's authority.
The Forest Department and the University of Sri Jayawardenepura would each
appoint a coordinator for their respective project components. The project
director (chairman), the conservator and the Chairman, Timber Corporation and
the two project coordinators would form a Project Coordinating Committee,
which could be called upon to meet by any of its members to deal with project
matters of common interest. The project coordinators would supply quarterly
progress reports to the Project Director, who would be responsible for the
preparation of a joint quarterly progress report to be submitted to the
government of Sri Lanka and to IDA. The reports would normally be due within
the month following the end of the respective quarters.



-37-
5.03    The Master Plan - The usefulness and implementation of the Master
Plan could be compromised unless those affected by it are involved in its
preparation and approval. As previously discussed (para 2.05 et seq.), a
large number of agencies in different ministries are involved in forestry
activities and, as a consequence, would be affected by the Master Plan. The
government, therefore, has set up an Inter-ministerial Forestry   Master Plan
Steering Committee which is chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry of Lands
and Land Development and includes as permanent members the chief executives
of the Forest Department, the State Timber Corporation and the Land Commis-
sioner (all under the Ministry of Lands), the Department of Wildlife Conser-
vation (Ministry of State), the Ceylon Plywood Corporation, the National
Paper Corporation (Ministry of Industry), the Ministries of Coconut and
Rubber Industries, the Planning Division (Ministry of Finance), repre-
sentatives of the ministries of Agriculture, Mahaweli Development,.Power and
Energy and Higher Education, and any other permanent member or advisor that
the government wishes to include. As the principal officer responsible for
the Master Plan preparation, the director of the Planning Unit cum Project
Director would be the Steering Committee's Secretary and the Unit its
secretariate, responsible for the preparation of the meetings and for the
presentation of the Master Plan progress reports (quarterly) for discussion
at regular (quarterly) meetings during the Master Plan preparation. The
Ministry of Lands and Land Development has informed IDA that the
Inter-ministerial Forestry Master Plan Steering Committee has been estab-
lished. Assurances were obtained that the committee would be maintained with
a composition and terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and that it would
meet at least quarterly.
5.04    Professional Training - The director for the two-year forestry course
to be introduced under the project would be the coordinator at the Sri
Jayawardenepura University referred to in para 5.02. His prime respon-
sibility would be the implementation of the professional training component
under the project. He would deal directly with the Project Director in
matters concerning the project and would be a member of the Project Coor-
dinating Committee.. For better coordination within the university and
between the higher university and education authorities and the project,
there would be a University Coordinating Committee. Its chairman. would be
the chairman of the University Grants Commission cum Secretary of the Minis-
try of Higher Education and the committee would include the Vice Chancellor,
the Dean of the Faculty of Applied Sciences, the head of the Department of
Botany, the university project coordinator (course director) and the Project
Director. The committee would help solve potential conflicts between the
project objectives and those of the education authorities and improve the
decision making process as well as provide a forum for review and discussion
of the implementation of the training component.



-38-
5.05    Plantations and Technical Training - Both fall under the Forest
Department. The Deputy Conservator of Forests, responsible for Planning and
Development (see organizational chart at end of Report), has been appointed
as the Forest Department's project coordinator. The inventory, planting and
management activities and the technical training under the project would be
implemented under the deputy conservators in charge of these respective
subjects under the overall guidance of the conservator. The coordinator
would monitor progress on the Forest Department's project component and with
the conservator assure its effective implementation. He would be responsible
for the preparation of quarterly progress reports.
B. Staffing
5.06    For project implementation, additional staff would be hired for the
Planning Unit, the Forest Department and their China Bay Technical College,
and the University of Sri Jayawardenepura. The Planning Unit would require
three professionals plus an accountant and an administrative officer and the
Project Director plus support staff. A project and cost management account-
ant and an administrative officer would need to be recruited by the Forest
Department which also would need additional staff at the China Bay College.
Although relying mainly on existing staff and consultants, the university
would need to recruit a course director and support staff for the new course.
Details of the staffing requirements are provided in Annexes 2-6. The Minis-
try of Lands and Land Development has informed IDA that that essential staff
positions for the Planning Unit, the Forest Department and the University of
Sri Jayawardenepura had been included in the 1983 budget request. The fol-
lowing would however be conditions to effectiveness:
(a) Appointment of Project Director and the three desk officers
in the Planning Unit; and
(b) Appointment of project coordinators for the Forest Department
and the University (course director).



-39-
C. Consultancy Services
5.07    Whenever possible, the project would use local consultants and exper-
tise to complement project staff in the execution of the program. However,
as explained previously, considerable foreign technical assistance would be
required as follows:
Master Plan
Inventory                   33 man-months
Other                       92 man-months
Professional Training         38 man-months
Plantations                    55 man-months
218 man-months
A company with terms of reference and team members satisfactory to IDA would
be appointed with FINNIDA financing to provide the technical assistance
services for the Master Plan and the plantation activities. The appointment
of a consulting firm would be a condition to effectiveness. Draft terms of
reference have been prepared and are available in the project file. The
project would also finance the inventory expert who would be extended for 12
months in 1985. The senior planning advisor would lead and coordinate the
consultant team. He would arrive in July 1983 ahead of the others and
prepare a detailed work program for the Master Plan preparation and for the
consultants which the Government would submit for IDA approval. A proposed
scheduling of the consultancy services is provided in Chart 24241 at end of
Annexes.
5.08    Technical assistance services for the professional training program
would be in the form of visiting professors. They would be recruited either
individually or through an agreement with a university qualified to provide
the services. The total cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$ 2.5
M or US$ 11,300 per man-month including salaries, costs, fees, allowances and
international travel.
D. Training
5.09    In addition to the "formal" professional and technical training
provided under the project (para 4.16 et seq.), there would be a considerable
in-service training element. Under the plantation and silvicultural
advisors, supervisory staff and workers would be learning appropriate nurs-
ery, planting and plantation management techniques. The silvicultural
advisor will provide training in the planning and execution of research and
trials schemes. The fire protection advisor will train Forest Department
professional staff and fire crews in fire avoidance and extinguishing. These
and the other experts would have as part of their terms of reference to



-40-
provide short training workshops for Forest Department and Timber Corporaton
staff in their respective fields. Each expert would be allocated counter-
parts with the specific objective of transfer of experience. The deputy
conservator in charge of training in the Forest Department would be respon-
sible, in consultation with the senior planning advisor, to coordinate the
consultants' training activities and to prepare a program for this purpose.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10    The Planning Unit would be responsible for the monitoring of overall
project progress based on information provided by the implementing agencies.
The monitoring and evaluation officer in the unit would have the prime
responsibility to acquire and process relevant information and to prepare
periodical reports. For all project components, the monitoring would focus
on progress with civil works contracting and construction, procurement of
equipment and materials, progress with consultancy services (man-months and
reports), comparing actual implementation dates and costs with original
appraisal estimates and, where applicable, with revised estimates.
5.11    The University of Sri Jayawardenepura, in addition, would collect,
analyze and provide information on:
(a) the number of applicants, number accepted and enrollment
at the beginning of each academic year;
(b) the number of graduates who have completed the course within
the prescribed duration of the course, compared with the
original intake;
(c) the number of graduates employed by the Forest Department,
Timber Corporation, the University or in other forestry
activities within six months, one year and two years after
graduation;
(d) the occupation of those who have benefitted from scholar-
ships under the project for postgraduate studies abroad;
and
(e)  the staffing situation, including qualifications and turn-
over.
5.12    The Forest Department would collect data on plantation activities,
including areas planted, weeded, and managed, compared to project targets,
survival rates, nursery production, unit and total cost of these activities
compared to appraisal estimates; progress on area covered by inventory and
management plans with implementation of the latter and staffing positions
including the level of forestry training received. Particular efforts would



-41-
be made to monitor elephant, cattle and fire damage of plantations and the
success of the fire protection program. In addition, less frequently, data
would be collected on the growth performances of plantations. For the China
Bay Technical College, the information to be provided would include the
number of students (Forest Department staff) who complete the various courses
compared to enrollment and the staff situation.
5.13    The Planning Unit would provide key indicators on the progress of the
preparation of the Master Plan and the five-year investment program, includ-
ing meetings ot the Forestry Master Plan Coordinating Committee. The
analytical cost accounting system to be introduced at the Forest Department
(para 4.14) and the forestry data bank to be created in the planning unit
(para 4.15) under the project together with the separate and improved project
accounts would provide a major input into the monitoring and evaluation
system. Monitoring reports would be part of the quarterly progress reporting
(para 5.02).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Yields and Production
6.01    Industrial Plantations.  There is sufficient evidence from planta-
tions and provenance trials in Sri Lanka, as well as from other countries
with comparable geoclimatic environment, to make reasonable estimates of
growth rates for the species chosen for the plantation project. Given
suitable planting stock, thorough ground preparation and proper crop culture
particularly weeding, as under the project, a minimum mean annual increment
of 15 m3/ha can be expected from eucalypts and light hardwoods should also
reach this figure, both in 20-year rotations. For teak, an annual increment
of 7 m3lha in a 40-year rotation has been assumed. These estimates are
considered conservative for eucalypts and reasonable for teak and light
hardwoods. Volume yield data used are provided in Annex 9, Table 3. It has
been assumed that eucalypts and light hardwoods would be thinned at years 5,
10 and 15. The thinnings would produce firewood, construction and telepoles
(eucalyptus only), and sawlogs as shown in the annex tables. Teak would be
thinned at years 1-0, 15, 20 and 30 producing similar products. Under these
assumptions, the industrial plantations under the project would produce, in
total over their lifetime, 2.4 M m3 of wood of which about I M m3 would be
sawlogs.
6.02    Management of Teak Plantations.  The incremental production from the
plantation management under the project is much more difficult to estimate.
For teak planted under the project, the average yield of a thinning is
assumed to be about 20 m3/ha. If one allows 50% for lack of management, then
the total production during the project period from the thinnings of 10,000
ha teak would be 0.1 M m3 wood, mainly as poles and firewood. In addition to
the output obtained from the periodical thinnings, benefits would also arise



-42-
through the rapid growth in dimensions of the remaining standing trees due to
the increase in space, light and nutrient availability which would reduce the
rotation period as much as from 50 to 40 years.
6.03    Silvicultural Treatment of Young Stands.  If the 15,000 ha of young
teak, mahogany and pine plantations assumed capable of rehabilitation under
the project were to be given no treatment, available evidence from the mis-
sion's field visits suggests that these would produce nothing. It is recog-
nized, however, that growth subsequent to the treatments may not be as fast
as that resulting from the standard weeding regime initiated from the date of
planting. It has been assumed that treated teak plantations would show a
mean increment of 5 m3/yr in 35 years from the time of the first rehabilita-
tion weeding, mahogany 10 m3/yr also over 35 years and pine 12 m3/yr over
25 years. On this basis, and assuming 9,000 ha teak, 4,500 ha pine and 1,500
ha mahogany treated, the total production as a result of the treatment may be
estimated at 3.5 M m3 of wood.
6.04    Harvesting of Over-mature Stands.  With an estimated stocking of 300
m3/ha, this project activity would provide 60,000 m3 of wood annually over
five years of the project period, totalling 0.3 M m3. By replanting the area
with fast-growing species with annual increments of 20 m3/ha -- as may be
expected in the Wet Zone -- the project would, in addition, provide, in
total, 0.4 M m3 of wood over a 20-year rotation period.
B. Markets
6.05    There would be no difficulty in finding markets for the increased
wood production due to the project. The immediate production due to the
project -- 60,000 m3/yr from mature plantations of which about 60% sawlogs,
and 20,000 m3 per year from teak thinnings mainly as poles -- would find a
ready market either substituting for imports which would otherwise be neces-
sary (para 2.21) or, alternatively, supplying building poles, transmission
poles or fuelwood needs. The existing well-developed marketing organizations
of the Timber Corporation and the private sector would have no difficulty in
handling these relatively small quantities.
6.06    The future output from thinnings and final harvesting in 20-years
time of the bulk ot plantations that would be established under the project
would fill only part of a projected future wood deficit. Eucalyptus output
would be used for low grade construction lumber and for transmission poles
and fuelwood. The wood utilization consultant under the project would advise
on the utilization of plantation grown woods, particularly on the use of
eucalypt which is not yet utilized for timber in Sri Lanka, but which is
employed elsewhere, e.g. in South Africa and Zambia.



-43-
C. Prices
6.07    Wood prices in Sri Lanka (Annex 10, Table 3) are at about world
levels. Common luxury grades (teak, mahogany) sell at about Rs 8,000 (US
$400) per m3 and domestic utility timber sells at between Rs 3,500 (US $180)
and Rs 5,500 (US $290) for common dimensions. For comparison, the average
ex port cost of utility timber imported in 1981 was US $240 per m3. However,
as the quality of domestically produced sawnwood is comparatively poor, the
Timber Corporation was able to sell imported timber at US $350 per m3. In
all financial calculations, prevailing market prices in Sri Lanka have been
used.
D. Impact on Government Budget
6.08    The overall budgetary impact of the project during the investment
period would be positive as may be seen in Table 6.1 below. This is due to
the revenues obtained from the harvesting of mature stands and the thinning
operations under the project.
Table 6.1: PROJECT IMPACT ON GOVERNMENT BUDGET
(million Rupees at current prices)
1983     1984     1985      1986     1987      1988     Total
Prolect Costs                4.7     73.1      59.3     49.9      54.1     74.5      315.6
Project Net Revenues          -      87.6      99.4    138.4    152.3    167.6       645.3
Of which:
Taxes and royalties         -      50.9      57.8     79.3      87.3     96.0      371.3
Timber Corporation a/       -      36.7      41.6     59.1      65.0     71.6      274.0
Balances
Overall Government b/    -4.7       14.5     40.1     88.5      98.2     93.1      329.7
Direct budget effect c/  -4.7    -22.2       -1.5     29.4      33.2     21.5       55.7
a/ Contribution to fixed costs and net profits of the Timber Corporation
(See Annex 11, Tables 1-3).
b/ Total net revenues less project costs.
c/ Taxes and royalties less project costs.



-44-
6.09    After the completion of the project in 1988, the Government would
have to finance the weeding costs of the industrial plantations in 1989 and
1990 and plantation maintenance thereafter. These costs amount to about Rs
23 M (US $1 M) in 1989, Rs 15 M (US $0.7 M) in 1990; and thereafter in 1990
prices, Rs 8 M (US $0.4 M) annually. However, revenues expected from thin-
nings of the plantations would render the overall balance positive again from
1991 onwards during the rotation period of the plantations.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits
7.01    Wood Production - The direct quantifiable benefits of the project
would be the increase in wood production of 7.3 M m3, distributed over the
rotation period of plantations established or upgraded under the project.
This is equivalent to an increase in the annual wood supply of about 320,000
m3, of which about 40% would be sawlogs, about 35% pole wood, and the
remainder firewood. Stated otherwise, the market value of the total
incremental output due to the project would be almost Rs 9 B (US $420 M) in
1982 prices.  On an annual basis, this represents nearly Rs 390 M (US $18 M)
over the rotation period of the crops.
7.02    Employment Creation - The project would create about 2.7 M man-days
of employment for the rural poor in the project area, spread over a five-year
period, generating them an aggregate income of about Rs 66 M. Based on four
months work during the monsoon, this would provide jobs for 5,000 laborers
whose incomes would average Rs 2,600 during this period.
7.03    Transfer of Experience - The technical assistance program under the
project would help in transferring the latest forestry technologies and
knowledge to Sri Lanka, providing the country with a planning framework and
thus render her forestry operations more efficient to the ultimate benefit of
the whole population. The emphasis under the project placed on proper plant-
ing and forest management techniques and practices would not only benefit the
project plantations, but have spin-off effects on the whole plantation
program. The trial and research program would result in new fast-growing
species' provenances and plantation techniques better suited to Sri Lanka's
environment. For every percent of yield improvement or of plantations saved
from destruction by fire or weeds, about Rs 37 M (US $1.8 M) would be saved
per year at the present levels of plantings, which would pay back the total
cost of the technical assistance program in two years.
7.04    Foreign Exchange Savings - The value of the incremental annual wood
production under the project, US $18 M, would be roughly equivalent to the



-45-
foreign exchange saved by not having to import corresponding quantities of
wood. The training of professional foresters in Sri Lanka rather than in
Europe or in the USA -- which are the main options since regional training
facilities lack the necessary capacity -- would result in a gross foreign
exchange saving of US $15,000 per student year, or for 15 students following
two-year courses, the annual foreign exchange savings would be US $450,000.
During the project period, the annual cost of foreign visiting lecturers,
US $76,000, would have to be deducted, but these costs would gradually
decline as the number of local, qualified professors increases as a result of
the prolect's professional training program and scholarships provided for
postgraduate studies abroad.
7.05    Environmental Impact - By planting abandoned chena lands in the dry
zone with trees and by saving large areas of existing plantations from suf-
focation under weed growth, the project would have an important positive
impact on the microclimate, flora, fauna and general environment in the
project areas. The project would contribute towards arresting the deforesta-
tion of the country and, as a consequence, help relieve the pressure on wood
extraction from erosion-prone water catchment areas so important to Sri
Lanka's social and economic welfare.
B. Economic Analysis
7.06    Economic Rate of Return - The economic rate of return of the
industrial plantation project (42% of project costs) is 20%. The individual
tree species' rates of return range from 15 to 23 as shown in Table 7.1
below:
Table 7.1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
percent
Eucalyptus      contract            20
chena               23
Hardwood        contract            19
chena               21
Teak            contract            15
chena               16
Total Industrial Plantations        20
7.07    No attempt has been made to calculate a precise economic rate of
return to plantation management activities under the project (18% of costs)
due to the speculative nature of the results. The rate of return of these



-46-
activities, however, is much higher than for the industrial plantation
project due to the small incremental and large sunk costs in such plantations
combined with large benefits. The remainder of project costs (40%) are for
training, research and technical assistance and have, therefore, not been
included in the rate of return calculations. However, even if charged with
the total project costs, the rate of return of the industrial plantations
would remain above the assumed 12% opportunity cost of capital in Sri Lanka.
7.08    All values are in 1982 constant prices.  The economic analysis has
been made in border Rupees, with international prices converted to Rupees
at the exchange rate of US $1 = Rs 21. Local costs, including labor, have
been converted to border Rupees by applying a standard conversion factor of
0.8. The market rate for labor (51% of total plantation establishment costs)
has conservatively been taken as Rs 25 per man-day which has, because most of
the labor is employed during the monsoon when opportunity costs are h'gh,
also been assumed to be the economic cost. Traded goads and services have
been valued on the basis of their c.i.f. import prices. Prices and conver-
sion factors used are shown in Annex 10.
7.09    Sensitivity Analysis - As summarized in Table 7.2 below, there is
little sensitivity to changes in most variables. If the eucalyptus species
grown under the project were not to be accepted by the market as sawn timber,
and if that part had to be sold as firewood, the rate of return would still
remain acceptable at 17%. The rate of return does not fall below the oppor-
tunity cost of capital of 12% even under such unlikely conditions as a 10
year lag in benefits, which is equivalent to an increase in the rotation
period of eucalyptus and hardwoods to 30 years and teak to 50 years and, at
the same time, a reduction in the mean annual increments for eucalyptus and
hardwoods trom 15 to 10 m3 and for teak from 7 to 5.6 m3. Also in the
equally unlikely case that no benefits at all would be derived from thinnings
of the plantations, the rate ot return would remain well above 12. This case
would also imply that the mean annual increments for eucalyptus/hardwoods and
teak respectively only attained 9.5 and 4.5 m3.



-47-
Table 7.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Switching Values
Total Industrial Plantations
Total benefits, prices or yields                              -68%
Total costs                                                   212%
Eucalyptus, Contract
Total benefits, prices or yields                              -68%
Total costs                                                   215%
Hardwoods, Contract
Total benefits, prices or yields                              -61%
Total costs                                                   154%
Teak, Contract
Total benefits, prices or yields                              -43%
Total costs                                                    77%
Economic Rate of Return
Total Plantations:
Base Case                                                        20%
Total benefits, wood prices or yields
down 10%                          19%
down 30%                          18%
lagged 5 years                           15%
"   10 years                          12%
Total costs                      up 50%                          17%
No benetits from thinnings                                       16%
tucalyptus sawlog output sold as firewood                        17%
7.10    Project Risks - The project faces no major risks.  The principal risk
would be that there is little or no improvement in the quality of plantations
under the project. By providing technical assistance and including funds for
the weeding of the young project plantations (the major factor in the poor
quality of existing plantations) while, at the same time, seeking the Govern-
ment's assurance that such weeding would be carried out (para 4.24), this
risk has been minimized. Another risk is damage caused to the plantations by
fire or animals or, rather remote, cyclones. By providing fire protection,
planting teak outside normal feeding areas and migrating routes for elephants
and by tinancing a study on free-ranging cattle and providing guards for the
young plantations, the project seeks to reduce these risks. As indicated by



-48-
the sensitivity analysis, the project could support rather heavy damage and
still remain economic. Since the eucalypts grown under the project are not
presently used for sawn timber in Sri Lanka, there is a certain risk of
market resistance. The wood utilization, industry and logging consultants
provided under the project woulld advise on the handling and usage of
eucalypts, which would minimize this risk. However, as shown in the sen-
sitivity analysis, even in the worst case, where the eucalypt saw logs would
have to be sold as firewood, the economic rate of return would remain satis-
tactory.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations Assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) The University would prepare a training program for the
scholarships tor IDA review by December 31, 1983
(para 4.18).
(b) The Project Director, with the assistance of the
Senior Planning Advisor, would prepare a program for
short term study tours abroad for professional
forestry statf and present it tor IDA review before
December 31, 1983 (para 4.18).
(c) The prescribed maintenance would be carried out on plan-
tations under the project and that a program for
such maintenance would be prepared annually by the Forest
Department (para 4.24).
(d) Thinnings would be an integral part of the working
plans and that those marked under the proiect would
actually be cut and carried out (para 4.28).
(e) The Forest Department would prepare annual programs
for silvicultural treatment under the project for
IDA review, supported by 1:25000 scale maps for easy
identification ot these areas. A first such program
would be presented to IDA by June 30, 1983 (para 4.31).
(f) The socioeconomic study following terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA would be presented to IDA by
June 30, 1984 and that, after consultation with the



-49-
people concerned, an appropriate course of tollow-up
action would be discussed and agreed with IDA (para 4.38).
(g) A soil/site survey would be carried out for the plantation
area and be presented for IDA review by June 30, 1984
(para 4.39).
(h)  Statements of expenditure would be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (para 4.46).
(i) Separate project accounts would be maintaned by the imple-
menting agencies and consolidated accounts by the
Ministry of Lands, and that these would be designed and
presented tor IDA approval by May 31, 1983 (para 4.47).
(1)  Project accounts would be submitted for independent
audit, and to IDA within four months of the fiscal year
end and audited statements made available to IDA immed-
iately thereafter (para 4.48).
(k) The audit report would include a statement verifying
that funds disbursed by IDA against statements of
expenditure had been used for the purpose for which
they were provided (para 4.48).
(1) That the Inter-Ministerial Forestry Master Plan
Steering Committee would be maintained with a
composition and terms of reference acceptable to
IDA and would meet at least quarterly (5.03).
8.02    Conditions to effectiveness would be:
(a)  Co-financing arrangements satisfactory to IDA (para 4.42).
(b) Appointment of Project Director and the three desk officers
in Planning Unit (para 5.06).
(c)  Appointment of Project Coordinators for the Forest
Department and the University (para 5.06).
(d) Appointment of consulting firm for the Master Plan and
plantation activities (para 5.07).
8.03     With the above assurances and covenants, the project would be suitable
for an IDA credlt of SDR 8.5 M (US $9.0 M) to the Government ot Sri Lanka.



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Average Monthly Rainfall for Selected Sites in Sri Lanka
For the Period 1931 - 1960
(mm)
Zone           Site         Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    June    July    Aug    Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec             Total
Wet Lowland    Colombo           88      96    118    260    353       212      140    124      153    354    324    175        2,395
Wet Lowland    Kalutara         113    101    148    310    401        248      169    152      200    392    34Z    209        2,787
Wet Lowland    Ratnapurna       151    181    244    341    494        463      307    328      315    498    354    214        3,888
Wet Midland    Kandy            118      83    120    188    190       185      154    142      122    276    250    211        2,022
Wet Upland      Nurawa Eliya   145       76     97    154    237       266      223    180      165    222    209    191        2,163
Intermediate   Kurunegala        98      60    170    263    197       163      112    115      109    330    281    177        2,075
Dry Lowland    Jaffna            97      37     30      70      63      16       17      31      47    244    411    267        1,329
Dry Lowland    Anuradhapura   123        54     99    187    100        13       32      47      70    233    248    242        1,447
Dry Lowland    Kantalai         234    107      58    145       84      12       53    102       93    190    308    376        1,762
Dry Lowland    Batticaloa       279    178      85      72      31      19       38      62      48    178    285    430        1,705
Dry Lowland    Hambantota       101      58     66    109    121        55       43     42       45    126    185    121        1,075
Source: Report on the Colombo Observatory for 1966, Colombo, Sri Lanka
F- M.
tD >C
I-   t'i



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Master Plan - Capital Cost
(Rs '000)
1983          1984          1985           1986          1987           1988           Total          FE
Unit Cost    Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost               Units Cost       (x)
1. Planning Unit (PU)
Vehicles
4 x 4 Station Wagon         250          -     -      3      75.0    _      -       _     _       _      _       _               3     750    (95)
Subtotal                              -      _      -     750      _      _      _      _       _                             -      750    (95)
Equipment
Typewriter                  10         -       -      3       30     -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -        3       30    (54)
Calculator (pocket)          2.2       -       -      5       11     -      -       -     -       -      -       -     -         5      11    (45)
Calculator (program)        22         -       -      2       44     -      -       -     -       _      _       _      _       2       44    (45)
Telephone                    3         -       -      5       15     -      -       -     -       -      -       -     -         5      15    (54)
Air Conditioner             37         -       -      5      185     -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -        5      185    (34)
Photocopier                100         -       -      1      100     -      -       -     -       -      -       -      -        1     100    (54)
Refrigerator                11         -       _      1       11     -      -       -     _       -      -       _     -         1       11    (31)
Subtotal                             -       -     -      396      -      -      -      -       -                                    396    (47)
Office Furniture
Desk (large)                 8          -      -      8       64     -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -        8       64      (-)
Desk                         5         -       -      6       30     -      -       -     -       -      -       -      -        6      30       (-)
Chair                        3         -       -      8       24     -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -        8       24     (-)
Chair                        2         -       -    38        76     -      -       -     -       -      -       -     -       38        76     (-)
Filing Cabinet               3         -       -    20        60     -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -       20       60      (-)
Table                        3         -       -      9       27     -      -       -     -       -      -       -      -        9       27      (-)
Bookcase                     2         -       -    20        40     -      -       -     -       -      -       -      -      20       40      ()
Conference Table            10         -       -      1       10     -      -       -     -       -      -       -     -         1       10     (-)
Lamp                          2        -       -    10        20     -      -       -     -       -      -       _      -       10       20      (-)
Subtotal                               -       -    -       351    -        -       -     -       -      -       -      -      -       351       (0)
TOTAL                                                     1,497
1,497    (60)
2.  Inventory                                                                                                                               ....
Vehicles
4 x 4 Station Wagon        250         -       -      5   1,250    -        -       -      -      -      -       -      -        5   1,250    (95)
TOTAL Base Cost                        -       -      -   2,747    -                -      -      -      -       -      -        -   2,747      (76)
1



- 52 -                                         ANNEX 2
Table 2
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Master Plan Technical Assistance Cost
(Rs '000)
1983          1984          1985         1986         Total      (FE%)
Planning Unit
Senior Planning Advisor                  1,583          2,762         2,909         1,558         8,812       (84)
Economist                                   -           2,891         1,558            -          4,449       (84)
Data Processing Expert                      -             752            -             -            752       (81)
Industry Expert                             -             752           -              -            752       (81)
Logging Expert                              -             752            -             -            752       (81)
Forest Utilization Expert                   -             752           -              -            752       (81)
Management Accountant                       -           1,407            -             -          1,407       (82)
Five-year Investment Program a/             -              -          4,821            -          4,821       (81)
Subtotal                               1,583         10,068         9,288        1,558        22,497        (83)
Forest Inventory
Inventory Expert b/                         -              -          2,993            -          2,993       (84)
Forest Management Expert                    -           2,981         1,558            -          4,449       (84)
Photo Interpreter                           -             752             -            -            752       (81)
Subtotal                                  -           3,643         4,551           -          8,194        (84)
TOTAL Base Cost 8 1982 Prices          1,583         13,711        13,839        1,558        30,691        (83)
a/ For experts.
b/  FAO project fund would cover until the end of 1984.



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry I)
Master Plan - Local Staff Cost: Planning Unit
(Rs '000)
a/
Annual        1983           1984           1985            1986           1987           1988
Salary    Units Cost    Units Cost    Units Cost    Units Cost    Units Cost    Units Cost    Total Cost
Staff Salaries
Director                    44        1      22      1      44      1      44       1     44       1     44       1      44          242
Planning Officer            38        1      19      1      38      1      38       1     38       1     38       1      38          209
M & E Officer               26        1      13      1      26      1      26       1     26       1     26       1      26          143
Data Bank Officer           26        1      13      1      26      1      26      1      26       1     26       1      26          143
Project Accountant          26        1      13      1     26       1      26      1      26       1     26       1      26          143
Administrative Officer    26          1      13      1     26       1      26      1      26       1     26       1      26          143
Secretary                   15        2      15      2     30       2      30      2      30       2     30       2      30          165
Clerks, etc. b/             12        6      36      6      72      6      72      6      72       6     72       6      72          396
Office Messengers, etc. c/ 8          8      32      8     64       8      64      8      64       8     64       8      64          352
Driver                      10        -       -      3      30      3      30      3      30       3     30       3      30          150
Total Salaries                             176          382             382            382            382            382        2,086
Travel Allowance
@ 10% of Salaries            -      -        18    -        38     -       38      -      38       -     38       -      38          208
Total Base Cost for
Salaries and Travel
Allowance                    -       -      194    -      420      -      420      -    420        -    420       -    420         2,294
a/ Proiect would start in mid-1983.
h/ Including one programmer and one draughtsman.
c/ Three watchers, 2 kks, 1 messenger and 2 couriers.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
- 54-
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Master Plan - Local Staff and Labor Cost:  Forest Inventory
(Rs '000)
Annual         1983 a/           1984             1985            1986            1987            1988
Salary       Units Cost    Units Cost         Units Cost    Units Cost    Units Cost    Units Cost    Total Cost
Staff Salaries
b/
Project Accountant FD-   b/         26           1     13       1   26            1      26        1       26      1       26      1    26           130
Administrative Officer FD-          26          1      13       1   26            1      26        1      26       1      26       1    26           130
Inventory Officer (DC)              38          -       -       -    -           1       38       1       38      1       38      1    38            152
Inventory Officer (ACF              26          -       -       -    -           1       26        1      26       1      26       l    26           104
Inventory Officer (ACF              26          -       -       -    -            1      26        1       26      1      26       1    26    1(       4
Crew Leader c/                      12          -       -       -    -          20      240       -         -     -        -      -      -           24U
Assistant Crew Leader d/            10          -       -       -    -          20      200        -        -     -         -     -      -           200
Draftsman d/                        14          -       -       -    -           4       56        4      56      4       56      4    56            224
Data Input Operator d/              10          -       -       -    -           4       40        4      40      4       40      4    40            160
Photo Interpreter dF                15          -       -       -    -           4       60       4       60.     4       60      4    60            24U
Secretary                           15          -       -       -    -           1       15        1      15      1       15      1    15             60
Office Messenger                     8          -       -       -    -           3       24       3       24      3       24      3    24             96
Driver e/                           10          -       -       -    -           3       30       3       30      3       30      3    30            120
Total Staff Salary                 -          -      26       -   52           -      807       -      367      -      367      -   367         1,986
Travel allowance and overtime
@ 33% of total salaries                -           -       9           17           -     266        -      121      -      121      _   121           655
Subtotal - Salaries and
Allowances                       -          -      35           69           -   1,073        -      488      -      488      -   488         2,641
d/
Wages (Rs 25/md)                       -           -       -            -       20.8L      520       -       -       -       -       -    -            520
TOTAL Base Cost                    -          -       35           69               1,593       -      488      -      488      -   488         3,161
a/ Six months in 1983.
b/  To handle all Forest Departmet Project activities.
c/ The FAO/UNDP sponsored project currently employs 18 crew leaders and 9 assistant crew leaders. In
addition, two crew leaders and 11 assistant crew leaders will be employed by the project in 1984 and
1985.
d/  Two draftsmen, two data input operators and 2 photo interpreters will be employed in 1984 in addition
to the two each currently employed.
e/ Five additional drivers will be employed in 1984. In 1986, seven drivers will be transferred to field
operations.
f/  1000 Mandays.



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Master Plan - Operating and Maintenance Costs
(Rs '000)
1983 a/       1984          1985           1986          1987           1988                          FE
Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost              Total Cost       (x)
1.  Forest Inventory
Vehicle Operating Cost b/                  -     -      10    800       10   800       3    240       3   240      3    240          2,320         (50)
Office Expenses                            -     -       -      30      -    25        -      15     -    15       -      15           100          -
Subtotal                                         -830                        825             255          255            255         2,420        (48)
2.  Planning Unit
Vehicle Operating Cost b/                  -     -       3    240        3   240       3    240       3   240      3    240          1,200         (50)
Office Expenses c/                         -     20      -      80       -    20       -      20     -    20       -      20           180          -
Office Rental                              -     -       -    200        -   200       -    200           200      -    200         1l000           -
Subtotal                                         20            520           460             46060 0                    460          2,380        (25)
TOTAL Base Operating Cost                        20          1,350         1,285             715          715            715         4,800         (37)
a/ Project starts at mid-year
b/ @ Rs 4.00/km, 20,000 km/yr
c/  Including electronic data processing cost
ID X



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MASTER PLAN P'REPARATION COST
(TOTAL COST IN RS '000)
YEAR               1983           1984           1985          1986           1987           1988        TOTALS
VEHICLES                                  -2000                         -                            --2000
EQ0U IP MEN T                             -396                                         ----396
OFFICE FURNITURE                                       351              -              ---35 1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,  MP              1583         10068           9288           1558--                                     22497
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,  IN                 -          .3643          4551-- -                                                   8194    Ln
ST UDT IES                                -1000                      200            200              --1400 
LABOUR,  INVENTORY                                       -           520              --             -              -           520
STAFF,  PLANNING UNIT                   194            420           420            420            420            420          2295
STAFF,  INVENTORY                        35             69          1.073           488            488            488          2641
OPERATING 9 MAINTENANCE                  20           1350          1285            715            715            715          4800
BASE COST                              1831         1.9297         17338           3381           1623          1623          45094
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   12             92           139             81             81             81            487
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                     208          4216           5890           1715.          1161          1401          14591
TOTAL. COST                            2052         23605          23366           5178          2865           3106          60172
0' x



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA                                                                  Table 1
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Professional Training - Total Cost
(Rs '000)
1983            1984             1985             1986             1987             1988                      FE
Unit Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Total Cost (Z)
1.  Civil works
Lecture theatre
(7200 sq ft e Rs 280 sq ft)          -           -        -       -    3,450       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       3,450      (25)
Greenhouse
(600 sq ft S  Rs 200/sq ft)           -          -        _       -        -       -        74      -        -       -        -       -        -          74      (25)
Subtotal                                                  -             3,450               74               -                -                -       3,524      (25)
2.  Vehicles
4 x 4 vehicle                          210         -        -       2       420      -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -         420       (95)
Minibus                                250         -        -       1       250      -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -         250       (95)
Station wagon                          250         -        -       1       250      -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -         250       (95)
Subtotal                                                  -               920                -               -                -                -         920      (95)
3.  Equipment and Materials
Lab and office equipment                -          -       118      -    1,600       -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -        1,718      (95)
Field and cap equipment                 -          -        -       -       703      -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -          703    (95)
Glassware and accessories               -          -        -       -       162      -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -           162    (95)
Chemicals                               -          -        -       -       101      -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -          101    (95)
Books and journals                      -          -        -       -       210      -         -      -        -       -        -       -        -          210      (95)
Subtotal                                                 118            2,776                -               -                -                -        2,894    (100)
4.  Operating Cost
Vehicles
(20,000 kl/yr e Rs 4.00/km)           -          -        -       4       320      4       320      4       320      4       320      4       320       1,600     (44)
Maintenance of equipment                -          -        -       -        40      -        40      -        40      -        40      -        40          200    (65)
Office and lab expenses                 -          -       60       -        85      -        85      -        85      -        85      -        85          485    (50)
Maintenance of buildings @ 2.52         -          -        -       -        87               88      -        88      -        88      -        88         439    (25)
Subtotal                                         -       60               532              533              533              533              533       2,724     (43)
5.  Staff Salaries
Course director                         60         1       60       1        60      1        60      1        60      1        60      1        60         360       (0)
Secretary Class I                       15         -        -       1        15      1        15      1        15      1        15      1        15           75      (0)
Secretary Class II                      12         1       12       1        12      1         12     1        12      1        12      1        12           72      (0)
Technician                              12         -        -       1        12      1        12      1        12      1        12      1        12           60      (O)
Bookkeeper                               9         1        9       1          9     1         9      1         9      1         9      1         9           54      (0)
Office laborers                          8         1        8       3        24      5        40      5        40      5        40      5        40          192      (0)
Lab assistant                           10         -        -       1         10     1         10     1        10      1         10     1        10           50      (0)
Drivers                                 10         -        -       4        40      4        40      4        40      4        40      4        40          200      (0)
Subtotal                                                 89               182              198              198              198              198       1,063      (0)
6.  Travel Allowance e 5%
of staff salaries                                          4                 9               10               10               10               10          53       (0)
7.  Contract Lecturers
Local consultants                      120          -      -        2       240      2       240      2       240      2       240      2       240        1,200      (0)
Visiting lecturer
(local - per hour)                   125         -       -      400        50   400         50   400         50   400         50   400         50         250      (0)
Foreign consultants
(per month)                          210         -       -        8    1,680       8    1,680       -    1,680       -         -      -         -       5,040    (83)
Visiting foreign lecturer
(per month)                          210         -       -       2.8      588      2.8    588       2.8    588       2.8    588       2.8    588        2,940    (83)
Scholarships
(4 X 2 yrs  B Rs 315,000/yr)          -          -       -       -         -       2       630      2       630      2       630      2       630       2,520   (100)
Study Tours a/                                             _                210              210              210              210              210       1.050
Subtotal                                                                2,768            3,398             3,398           1.718            1,718      13,000    (76)
TOTAL Base Cost                                        271             10,636            4,213             4,139           2,459            2,459      24,178      (62)
_.._._   ,     ___. .....         -----      ,    ____            .....       1 ......   (.76
Physical Contingencies                                  18                676               61                53              53               53         914
Price Contingencies                                     40              2,878            1,501             1,895           1,514            1,828       9,656
TOTAL COST                                             329             14,190            5,775             6,087           4,026            4,340      34,748
. .. . , ., ~~~~~~~~.....                                 ---               .....           .....                       .......  _   
11 Under Project Director's budget for professional forestry staff.
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
China Bay Forestry College
Expansion and Rehabilitation
(RB '000)
1983            1984            1985            1986            1987            1988           Total    FE
Unit Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units   Cost   Unit Cost  (%)
1.  Civil Works
New Buildings
Student hostel
(5200 sq ft at Rs 175/sq ft)                                          1      910      -       -       -       -       -       -       -        -     1    910
Junior staff houses
(1000 sq ft at Rs 135/sq ft)              -          -       -        3      405      9   1,215       2      270      -       -       -       -    14  1,890
Rehabilitation existing buildings
-       -       -      297      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -    297
Subtotal                                                     _            1,612            1,215             270              -               -           3,097   (25)
2.  Vehicles
4 x 4 vehicle                              210          -      -       2      420      -       -        -       -      -       -        -       -       2      420
Minibus                                    250          -      -       2      500      -       -        -       -              -       -        -       2      500
Subtotal                                                    -               920          -       -        -       -      -           -       -       -      920  (95)
3. Equipment and Furniture
Furniture                                   -           -      -       -      250      -       200      -        25    -        -       -       -       -      475   (0)
Electrical appliances                       -           -      -       -       -       -       100      -        75    -        -       -       -       -      175  (95)
Lab and office equipment                    -           -      -       -      360      -        -       -       -      -       -        -       -       -      360  (95)
Field and camp equipment                    -           -      -       -      880      -        -       -       -      -       -       -        -       -      880  (95)
Chemicals                                   -           -      -       -       20      -        -       -       -      -       -       -       -        -       20  (95)
Books                                       -           -      -       -       75      -        -       -       -      -       -       -        -      -        75  (80)
Subtotal                                                                 1,585               300             100             -               -            1,985  (72)
4.  Operating Expenses
Vehicles (20,000 km/yr pr
vehicle @ Rs 4/km)                        -           -      -      4       320      4       320      4      320    4       320      4      320       -   1,600  (44)
Office expenses                             -           -      -      -        24      -        24      -       24    -        24       -       24      -      120  (20)
Maintenance of buildings
(2.51)                                  -           -      -      -        40      -        71      -       77              77      -       77            252  (25)
Subtotal @ 2.51)-=38-4                                                                        772 1   -      421421                         421           2,062  (40)
5. Staff Salaries
Permanent staff                             -           -      -      -       299      -       299       -      299    -       299      -      299      -   1,495   (0)
Visiting lecturer
(@ Rs 200/hr)                           -          -      -    160        32     160        32     160      32   160       32    .160      32      -      160   (0)
Travel allowance
(@ 3% of permanent staff
salaries)                              -          -      -      -         9                 9               9              9               9              45   (0)
Subtotal                                                    _              340               340             340            340             340           1,700   (0)
TOTAL Base Cost                                              -           4,841             2,270           1,131            761             761           9,764  (40)
Physical Contingencies                                                      339              172              58             21               21             611
Price Contingencies                                                      1,443             1,200             761            639             771           4,814
TOTAL COST                                                               6,623             3,642           1,950          1,421           1,553          15,189



- 59 -                                             ANNEX 4
Table 1
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Plantation
Capital Cost - Eastern Area
(Rs '000)
Unit             1i84             1985            1986          1987          1988           Total       FE
Cost          Units   Cost  Units   Cost  Units  Cost  Units  Cost  Units  Cost   Units  Cost   (x)
1.- Buildings
(a) Nursery
Forest rangers           251             1     251                                                                1     251
house
Forest guards             97             1      97                                                                1       97
house
Office-cum-store         100             1     100                                                                1      100
Pump house                40             1      40                                                                1      40
Pottery shed             100             1     100                                                                1     100
Water tank                36             1      36                                                                1      36
(b) Plantation Sites
ACF house                359             1     359                                                                1      359
Forest rangers           251            1      251      1      251                                                2     502
house
Forest guards             97             1      97      i       97      1     97    1        97                   4     388
house
Permanent lab
house                    82            -       -       1       82      1     82    1        82    1       82    4      328
Subtotal Buildings                          1,331            430            179           179             82         2,201    (25)
2. Vehicles
(a) -Nursery
Motorcycles               25             1      25      -       -       -     -      -       -     -       -      1       25
(b) Plantation Sites
7-ton lorry              630             1     630      -       -       -     -      -       -     -       -      1     630
90 HP farm tractor       650             1     650      -       -      -      -      -       -     -       -      1     650
Trailer                   30             1      30      -       -       -     -      -       -     -       -      1       30
(c) Field Officers
Pickup                   210             2     420      -       -       -     -      -       -     -       -      2      420
4 x 4 vehicle            210             1     210      -       -       -     -      -       -     -       -      1     210
(d) Protectiod
Motorcycles  -            25             1      25      -       -       -     -      -                     -      1       25
Subtotal Vehicles                           1,990                                                                    1,990    (95)
3. Equipment
(a) Nursery
Water pump                30             2      60                                                                2       60    (90)
Tools                     LS                    10      -       10            15    -        15    -       20    -        70    (20)
(b) Plantation Sites
Survey inst.              LS                    30               5             5              5             5    LS       50    (90)
Tools                     LS                    10              10            15             15            20    LS       70    (20)
Subtotal Equipment                            110              25            35.            35            45           250    (51)
4. Fire Protection Equipment
- Fire tower                 10            -       -       1     100                                                1      100    (10)
- Radio network             50             1       50     -       -                                                 1       50    (90)
- Portable pump              40            2       80      1      40                                                2      120    (90)
- Water fank                40             2       80     -       -                                                 2       80    (55)
- Tools                      LS                    50     -       20      -      20    -       30    -        30    -      i50    (20)
- Fire finder               25             -       -      -       25      -      -     -       -      -      -      -       25    (9U)
Subtotal Fire Protection                      260             185            20             30            30           525    (49)
TOTAL Base Cost                             3,691             640           234            244           157         4,966    (55)



- 60 -                                                  Alj,EX 4
Tab.2 2
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Plantation
Capital Cost - Southern Area
(Rs '000)
Unit             1984              1985            1986            1987             1988            Total      FE
Cost         Units  Cost        Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units Cost    %
1. Buildings
(a) Nursery
Forest rangers
house                      251           1       251          -            -        -               -      -       -        1     251
Forest guards
house                       97           1        97       -       -       -        -      -        -      -       -        1       97
Office-cum-store             65           1        65       -       -       -        -      -        -      -       -        1       65
Pump house                   40           1        40       -       -       -        -      -         -     -       -        1       40
Potting shed                 70           1        70       -       -       -        -      -        -      -        -       1       70
Water tank                   20           1        20       -       -       -        -      -         -      -       -       1       20
(b) Plantation Sites
ACF house                   359           1       359       -       -       -        -      -        -      -        -       1      359
Forest rangers              251           1       251       -       -       -        -      -        -      -       -        1     251
house
Forest guards                97           1        97       1       97      -        -      -         -     -        -       2      194
house
Permanent lab
house                       82           1        -        1       82      -        -      1        82    -        -       2      164
Subtotal Buildings                             1,250              179               -               82             -            1,511    (25)
2. Vehicles
(a) Nursery
Motorcycles                   25          1        25       -       -       -         -      -        -      -       -       1       25
(b) Plantation Sites
7-ton lorry                 630           1       630       -       -       -        -      -        -      -       -        1     630
90 HP farm tractor          650           1       650       -       -       -        -      -         -     -        -       1      650
Trailer                      30           1        30       -       -       -         -     -         -     -        -       1       30
(c) Field Officers
Pickup                      210           1       210.      -       -       -        -      -         -     -                1      210
4 x 4 vehicle               210           1       210       -       -       -        -      -        -      -       -        1      210
(d) Protection
Motorcycles                  25           1        25       -           -            - -         -          -                1       25
Subtotal Vehicles                             1,780                -                -               -              -            1,780   (95)
3. Equipment
(a) Nursery
Water pump                   30           2        60       -       -       -        -       -        -      -       -       2       60   (90)
Tools                        LS           -        10       -       10      -       10      -         15    -        15      -       60   (20)
(b) Plantation Sites
Survey Instruments           LS           -        20       -       -       -         5     -         -     -         5      LS      30   (90)
Tools                        LS           -        10       -       10      -       10      -         10    -        10      LS      50   (20)
Subtotal Equipment                               100               20              25               25             30             200    (51)
4.  Fire Protection Equipment
- Fire tower                    10          -        -         1      100      -       -       -        -      -       -       1      100   (10)
- Radio network                 50          1        50        -      -        -       -       -        -      -       -       1       50   (90)
- Portable pump                 40          2         80       1       40      -       -       --                              3      120   (90)
- Water tank                    40          2        80        -       -       -       -       -        -      -       -       2       80   (55)
- Tools                         LS          -        50        -       20      -       20      -        30    -        30      -      150   (20)
- Fire finder                   25          -        -         -       25      -       -       -        -      -       -       -       25   (90)
Subtotal Fire Protection                         260              185              20                30    -        30             525    (49)
TOTAL Base Cost                                3,390              384              45               137             60          4,016    (52)



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plantation Establishment - Technical Assistance Cost
(Rs '000)
1983            1984         1985           1986          1987          1988         Total        FE%
Unit Cost      mm    Cost      mm    Cost   mm    Cost   mm    Cost   mm    Cost   mm    Cost   mm          Cost
Plantation Advisor                230           3      929     12   2,763   12   2,910   12   2,212    2        535    2      535   43    9,884       84
Fire Protection Advisor           267           -      _        2     535    2      535    2      535    2       -     -       _      6    1,605      81
TOTAL Base Cost                               -     929       _   3,298    -   3,445    -   2,747    -        535    -      535         11,489      83
=="  , =_=,==
0xm



-62 -                                            ANNEX 4
Table 4
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Industrial Plantations Staff Cost - Eastern Area
(Rs '000)
Annual       1983          1984          1985          1986          1987          1988
Salary   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost  Total Cost
1.  Nursery
Forest ranger          12        -       -     1      12     1      12     1      12      1     12      1     12        60
Forest guard           10        -      -      1      10     2      20     3      30     3      30     3      30       120
Pump mech.             11        -       -     1      11     1      11     1      11      1     11      1     11        55
Storekeeper             8        -      -      1      8      1       8     1       8     1       8     1       8       40
2.  Plantation Sites
AFC                    26       0.5    13      1      26     1      26      1     26      1     26      1     26       143
Forester               15        -      -      1      15     1      15     1      15     1      15     1      15        75
Forest ranger          12       0.5      6     1      12     2      24     4      48     8      96    12    144        330
Forest guard           10       1.0 a/ 10      2      20     4      40     8      80    16    160    24    240         550
Drivers                10        -       -     5      50     5      50     5      50     5      50     5      50       250
Perm. laborer           8        -       -     -       -     2      16     4      32     9      72    16    128        248
3.  Field Offices
Clerk I                15        -       -     1      15     1      15     1      15      1     15      1     15        75
Clerk II               12        -      -      -       -     -       -     1      12     2      24     2      24        60
Draftsman              14        -       -     1      14     1      14     1      14      1     14      1     14        70
Typist                 12        -      -      1      12     1      12     1      12     1      12     1      12        60
Driver                 10        -       -     1      10     1      10     1      10     1      10      1     10        50
Messenger               8        -       -     1       8     1       8     1       8      1      8      1      8        40
Cleaner                 8        -      -      1       8     1       8     1       8     1       8     1       8        40
Total Salaries                      29           231           289           391           571            755    2,266
Travel Allowance and
Overtime at 33 percent of
plantation site staff cost        10            41            56            83           138            199      527
TOTAL Base Cost                     39           272           345           474            709           954    2,793
a/ Two guards for six months.



63 -                                            ANNEX 4
Table 5
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Industrial Plantations Staff Cost - Southern Area
(Rs '000)
Annual       1983          1984          1985           1986          1987          1988
Salary   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost  Total Cost
1. Nursery
Forest ranger           12        -             1      12     1      12      1     12      1     12      1      12        60
Forest guard            10       -      -       1     10      1      10     2      20      2     20      2     20        80
Pump mech.              11        -     -       1      11     1      11      1     11      1     11      1      11        55
Storekeeper              8       -      -       1      8      1       8     1       8      1      8      1       8       4
2. Plantation Sites
AFC                               .5    13      1     26      1      26      1     26      1     26      1      26       143
Forest ranger           12       .5      6      1     12      2      24     3      36     5      60      7     84       222
Forest guard            10      1.0 a/ 10       2     20      4      40     6      60    10    100    14    140         370
Drivers                 10       -      -       4     40      4      40     4      40      4     40      4     40       200
Perm. laborer            8        -     -       -       -     2      16     4      32      7     56    11       88      192
3. Field Offices
Clerk I                 15       -      -       1     15      1      15      1     15      1     15      1      15       75
Clerk II                12       -      -       -      -      1      -      1      12      1     12      1      12       36
Draftsman               14       -      -       1     14      1    14        1     14      1     14      1      14       70
Typist                  12       -      -       1     12      1    12       1      12      1     12      1      12       60
Driver                  10       -      -       1      10     1    10        1     10      1     10      1      10       50
Messenger                8       -      -       1       8     1      8       1      8      1      8      1       8       40
Cleaner                  8       -      -       1      8      1      8       1      8      1      8      1       8       40
Total Salaries                       29           206          254             324           412           508    1,733
Travel Allowance and
Overtime at 33 percent of
plantation site staff cost         10            32           49              64            93           125       373
TOTAL Base Cost                      39           238          303             388           505           633    2,106
a/ Two for six months.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Staff Cost - Total Industrial Plantations
(Rs '000)
Annual       1983           1984           1985          1986           1987           1988
Salary   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost   Units Cost  Total Cost
1. Nursery
Forest ranger            12       -       -      2      24      2      24     2      24      2      24      2      24       120
Forest guard            10         -      -      2      20      3      30     5      50      5      50      5      50       200
Pump mech.               11       -       -      2      22      2      22     2      22      2      22      2      22       110
Storekeeper              8        -       -      2      16      2      16     2      16      2      16      2      16        80
2. Plantation Sites
AFC                      26       1.0    26      2      52      2      52     2      52      2      52      2      52       286
Forester                 15       -       -      1      15      1      15      1     15      1      15      1      15        75
Forest ranger            12      1.0    12       2      24      4      48     7      84    13    156    19    228           552
Forest guard             10      2.0 a/ 20       4      40      8      80    14    140    26    260    38    380            920
Drivers                  10        -      -      9      90      9      90      9     90      9      90      9      90       450
Perm. laborer            8        -       -      -       -      4     32      8      64    16    128    27    216           440
3. Field Offices
Clerk I                  15 ~   -         -      2      30      2      30     2      30      2      30      2      30       150
Clerk II                12        -       -      -       -      -       -     2      24      3      36      3      36        96
Draftsman                14        -      -      2      28      2      28     2      28      2      28      2      28       140
Typist                  12        -       -      2      24      2      24      1     24      2      24      2      24       120
Driver                   10        -      -      2      20      2      20      1     20      2      20      2      20       100
Messenger                 8        -       -     2      16      2      16      1     16      2      16      2      16        80
Cleaner                   8        -      -      2      16      2      16      1     16      2      16      2      16        80
Total Salaries                        58           437            543            715           983          1,263    3,999
Travel Allowance and
Overtime at 33 percent of
plantation site staff cost          20            73            105           147            231            324       900
TOTAL Base Cost                       78           510            648            862         1,214          1,587    4,899
a..                          ......                      ....F..... g.u ... for s   month
a/ Four guards for six months.



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Industrial Plantation Operating Cost
(Rs '000)
1984           1985           1986            1987           1988
Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Total Cost   FEZ
Operating Cost
1. Vehicle Operating Cost
Pickup
20,000 km/yr @ Rs 4/km                3       240    3       240    3        240    3       240    3        240        1200
4 x 4 Vehicle
20,000 km/yr @ Rs 4/km                2       160    2       160    2        160    2       160    2        160         800
7 Ton Lorry
20,000 km/yr @ Rs 7/km                2       280    2       280    2        280    2       280    2        280        1400
90 HP Tractor
1,000 hr/yr @ Rs 96/hr                2       192    2       192    2        192    2       192    2        192         960
Motorcycle
500 km/yr @ Rs.1/km                   4        20    4        20    4         20    4        20    4         20         100                          i
Subtotal                           -      892    -        892    -       892    -        892    -       892       4,460       44
2.  Nursery Pumps Operating Cost                        17             17              17             17              17          85      44
3. Buildin Maintenance
@2.5% of capital cost                  -        69    -        85    -         89    -        96    -         98         437      25
TOTAL Base Cost                    -       978    -       994    -       998    -    1,005    -    1,007           4,982      42
MJ =S 
'i 4r



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nursery Model
Cost per
Unit     Unit Cost        Units per        1000 plants
(Rs)          1000 plants         (Rs)            Remarks
Soil/sand collection
Labor                          md              25           0.333              8.33       lm3Lmd, 3000 plants/r3
Transport 0 & M                m                1.30       16.67              21.67       5 mJ load @ Rs 6.50/km
Driver                         md              40           0.033              1.33       2 loads/day @ 50 km
31.33
Soil mixing
Labor                          md              25           0.167              4.17       2 m3/md
Fertilizer                     kg               3           3.33              10.00       10 kg/mr3
14.17
Seed bed prep/sowinR
Labor                          md              25           0.25               6.25       4000 plants/md
Filling pots
Labor                          md              25           2                 50.00       500 pots/md
Polyethene pots                nos              0.10        1000             100.00
150.00
Transplanting
Labor                          md              25           1                 25.00       1000 plants/md
Watering
Labor                          md              25           1.5               37.50       0.1 M plants/md
Pump 0 & M                     hr              11           0.2                2.00       1 hp, 20,000 1/hr
39.50
D&spatch
Labor                          md              25                              6.25       4000 plants/md
Subtotals
Labor                        md             25            5.50             137.50
Material                                                                   110.00
0 & M                                                                       25.00
Total Nursery Cost                                                         272.50
Less 0 & M                                                                25.00
TOTAL                                                        247.00
'000       Nursery    Cost of   Total           Average
Nursery Cost        plants      Cost        Seed       Nursery       used in
per/1000 plants    per ha       per ha      per ha    Cost/ha        calculations
SRecies                     (Rs)           (Rross)      (Rs)        (Rs)       (Rs)             (Rs)
E. Tereticornis                 247              2.2       543.4           25     568.4
E. Citriodora                   247              2.2       543.4          126      669.4      )    620
A. Odorotissima                 247              1.5       370.5           84      454.5
A. Indica                       247              1.5       370.5          273      643.5      )    550
T. Grandis                      247              1.5       370.5          630    1000.5
G. Arborea                      247              1.5       370.5         1071    1441.5       )   1220



-67-                                                                        ANNEX 4
Table 9
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Plantation Establishrent - Unit Cost
a/                                                               a!
Basic Model I - Espacement 2.5 x 2.5 a                             Basic Model II - Espacement 3  x 3 m
b/          ID  b/                                               b/           2D  b/
1A              LB               IC        with Taungya          2A               2B              2C         with Taungya
Manual       with Ripping   with Taungya  and Ripping            Manual       with Ripping   with Taungya   and Ripping
Units  Rs/ha   Units  Rs/ha   Units  Rs/ha  Units  Rs/ha   Units  Rs/ha   Units  Rs/ha   Units  Rs/ha   Units  Rs/ha
YEAR 1
1.  Survey, demonstrative          md      1        25     1       25      1        25    1        25      1        25      1        25    1        25       1       25
2.  Site preparation
-knocking down & staking    md    40    1,000    40   1,000    LS    1,250   LS    1,250    40    1,000    40    1,000   LS    1,250                   LS   1,250
-burning and re-burning       md      7       175      7      175                                      7       175     7       175
3.  Survey, roads, firebreaks   md         2        50     2       50      2.5      63    2.5      63      2        50      2        50    2.5      63       2.5    63
4.  Road and firebreak const.
-primary 10 m/ha              ad    20        500    20      300    20        500   20        500    20       500    20        500   20        500     20      500
-firebreak, internal          ad    10        250    10      250    10        250   10        250    10       250    10        250   10        250      10     250
-firebreak, external          md    20        500    20       500    20       500   20        500    20       500    20        500   20        500     20      500
5.  Staking                        ad      4      100      4      100      -         -    -         -      3        75      3        75    -         -       -        -
6.  Pitting                        md    20       500    20       500      -         -    -         -    14        350    14        350    -         -       -        -
7.  Plant Distribution             ad      1       25      1       25      -         -    -         -      0.8      20      0.8     20    -          -       -        -
8.  Planting                       md    10       250    10       250      -         -    -         -      7       175      7       175    -         -       -        -
9.  Fertilization                  md      4      100   | 4       100      -         -    -         -      3        75      3        75    -         -       -        -
10.  Replanting                     md      2.5     63    2.5       63      -         -    _         -      2        50      2        50    -       _        _         -
Subtotal                    ad   141.5  3,538  141.5  3,538    73.5  2,588   73.5  2,588   129.8  3,245   129.8  3,245   73.5  2,588    73.5  2,588
11.  Seedling (in '000 units)    ea         2.2    620    2.2    620        2.2    620    2.2    620        1.5    550       1.5    550    1.5    550        1.5    550
12.  Fertilizer                     kg    80       224   80        224    80        224   80       224    55        154    55        154   55       154    55        154
Subtotal Materials                  -       844    -       844      -       844    -        844     -       704      -       704    -       704      -       704
13.  Ripping                                -       -      -       600      -        -     -       600      -        -       -       600    -                -       60U
Subtotal Year I Basic Cost          -    4,382    -    4,982        -    3,432    -    4,032        -    3,949       -    4,549    -    3,292        -    3,892
YEAR 2
14.  Weeding                        ad    75    1,875   75    1,875    LB           250   LS       250    75    1,875    75    1,875   LS           250    LS        250
15.  Protection                     md      1.5      38    1.5      38      -        38    -        38      1.5      38      1.5      38    -        38      -        38
Subtotal                    ad            1,913    -    1,913       -       288    -        288     -    1,913       -    1,913    -        288      -       288
YEAR 3
16.  Weeding                        md    30        750   30       750    LS        250   LS       250    30       750      30       750   LS       250    LS        250
17.  Protection                     ad      1.5      38    1.5      38      -        38    -        38      1.5    38        1.5      38    -        38      -        38
Subtotal                    md              788    -       788      -       288    -        288     -      788       -       788    -       288      -       288
YEAR 4
18.  Weeding                        ad    20        500   20       500      -        -     -          -    20      500      20       500    -         -      -         -
19.  Protection                     md      1.5      38    1.5      38      -        38    -        38      1.5    38        1.5      38    -        38      -        38
Subtotal                    ad      -       538    -        538     -        38    -         38      -     538       -       538    -         38     -        38
YEAR 5
20.  Protection                     md      -        38    -        38      -        38    -         38     -       38       -        38    -        38      -        38
YEAR 18 c/
YEAR 20 c/
YRAR 40 c
YEAR 50 c/                                   -        38    -         38      -       38      -       38      -      38       -        38    -         38     -        38
a/  Basic Model I is applicable only to Eucalyptus spp.  In the Basic Model II, the seedling cost is taken as Rs 550/ha based on the cost of potted
seedlings.  For teak and Gmelina this cost would be increased to Rs 1,220/ha, hence the Basic Cost for the first year would be Rs 4,619/ha for
model 2A, Rn 5,219/ha for model 2B, Rs 3,962/ha for model 2C and Rs 4,562/ha for model 2D.
b/  Under the "controlled chena" or "taungya" system, farmers are paid a lump sum (LS) of Rs 1,250 for preparing the soil and planting and Rs 250
each for Years II and III for weeding.
c/  Protection would continue until the end of the rotation period - for eucalyptus spp. and light hardwoods established without ripping rotation,
the age would be 20 years. For teak rotation, the age would be 40 years.



-68 -                                                 ANNEX 4
Table 10
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Plantation Establishment - First Year Costs
(Rs '000)
1984           1985            1986           1987            1988
Unit Cost      Year 1          Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5           Total
Rs/ha       ha   Cost      ha    Cost    ha   Cost        ha   Cost    Unit   Cost   ha         Cost
Planting with Taungya
E. Tereticornis                    3,432       50    172       100    343    275    944    350  1,201    350  1,201   1,125  3,861
E. Citriodora                      3,432       50    172      100    343    200    686    200    686    200    686            750  2,573
T. Grandis                         3,962       25      99       25     99      50    198       75    297      75    297       250    990
A. Odorotissima                    3,292       25      82       25     82      25      82      25     82      25      82      125    410
A. Indica                          3,292       25      82       25     82      25      82      25     82      25      82      125    410
.G. Arborea                        3,962       25      99       25      99      25     99      25      99      25     99      125    495
Subtotal                                      200    706       300  1,048    600  2,091    700  2,447    700  2,447   2,500  8,739
Planting with Contract
E. Tereticornis                    4,382       50    219       150    657    275  1,205    800  3,506  1,500  6,573   2,775 12,160
E. Citriodora                      4,382       30    131        70    307    150    657    450  1,972    650  2,848   1,350  5,915
A. Odorotissima                    3,949       15      59     -35    138       75    296       75    296      75    296       275  1,085
A. Indica                          3,949       15      59       35    138      75    296       75    296      75    296       275  1,085
T. Grandis                         4,619       75    346        75    346    150    693    125    577    125    577           550  2,539
G. Arborea                         4,619       15      69       35    162      75    346       75    346      75    346       275  1,269
Subtotal                                      200    883      400  1,748    800  3,493  1,600  6,993  2,500 10,936   5,500 24,053
Ripping                                600      100      60      175    105    350    210    575    345    800    480   2,000  1,200
TOTAL Base Cost                                     1,649           2,901           5,794          9,785          13,863          33,992



- 69-                                      ANNEX 4
SRI LANKA                                     Table 11
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Industrial Plantations Annual Maintenance Cost
(Rs '000)
1985             1986              1987              1988            Total
Unit Cost
(Rs/ha)      ha       Cost    ha        Cost    ha       Cost    ha        Cost   ha        Cost
Weeding
Taungya
1st year      250         200      50        300      75       600    150        700    175   1,800    450
2nd year      250          -       -         200      50       300      75       600    150   1,100    275
Subtotal                200      50        500    125        900    225    1,300    325   2,900    725
Contract
1st year    1875          200    375         400    750        800  1,500    1,600  3,000   3,000  5,625
2nd year      750          -       -         200    150        400    300    1,800    600   1,400  1,050
3rd year      500          -       -          -       -        200    100        400    200       600    300
Subtotal                200    375         600    900    1,400  1,900    2,800  3,800   5,000  6,975
Protection          38         400      15      1,100     42    2,500       95    4,800    182   8,800    334
TOTAL                           440              1,067            2,220             4,307            8,034



-70 -                                                       ANNEX 4
Table 12
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1-)
Plantation Establishment Direct Cost Summary
1984,           1985             1986             1987            1988              Total
ha    Cost      ha    Cost       ha    Cost       ha     Cost    ha       Cost      ha        Cost    FE%
Planting
with taungya                         200    706       300  1,048       600  2,091      700   2,447       700   2,447    2,500   8,739         4
with contract                        200    883       400  1,748      800  3,493   1,600   6,993   2,500  10.936    5,500  24,053             4
Subtotal                             400  1,589       700  2,796   1,400  5,584   2,300   9,440   3,200  13,383    8,000  32,792             4
Ripping                                 100     60      175    105       350    210      575      345      800      480    2,000   1,200    70
Weeding
with taungya                          -       -       200      50      500    125      900      225   1,300       325    2,900       725      0
with contract                         -       -       200    375       600    900   1,400   1,900   2,800   3,800    5,000   6,975            0
Subtotal                              -       -       400    425   1,100  1,025   2,300   2,125   4,100   4,125    7,900   7,700             0
Protection                              -       -       400      16   1,100       43   2,500       95   4,800       182    8,800       334      0
TOTAL Base Cost                       -    1,649       -   3,342      -    6,862       -    12,005       -    18,169        -    42,027       5



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDIIISTRIAL PLANTATION COST
(TOTAL- COST IN RS '000)
YEAR               1983          1.984          1.985         1986           t987          1988         TOTALS
CIVIL WORKS                              --27 81                    609            179           261             82          3912.,
VEHICLES                                  -          3770                     -             -              -                 3770
EQUIPMENT                              100            670           215            120           120             75          1300
FPLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT                 -          1650          3342           6862         12005          18169         42028
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   929           3298          3445          2747            535            535         11489
ST UDlI ES                             945              -              -.            -              -             -            945
STAFF                                    78           510           648            862          1 2114         1587          4899
OP'ERATING & MAINTENANCE                              979           994            998          1.0 051        1007          4982
BASE COST                             20521        13658           9253         11768          15139         21455          73326
P'HYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                   9           517           371            510           794           1100          .3301
F'RICE CONTINGENCIES                   313           3899          4536          8016          13817         23983          54565
TOTAL COST                            2374         18075          14159         20294          29750         46539         131191



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
ManaRement of Teak Plantations
(Re '000)
1983             1984             1985             1986             1987             1988                     FE
Unit Cost      Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost    Units   Cost   Total Cost  (X)
Staff
Forest ranger        12            -       -        -        -                         7       84        7      84        7      84        252       (0)
Forest guard         10            -       -        -        -       -        -        7       70        7      70        7       70       210       (0)
Drivers              10            -            -       -        -                     7       70        7      70        7       10       210       (0)
a/
Laborers                6.25         -        -       -        -       -        -       28      175       28     175       28      175        525      (0)
Vehicles
Operating and             b/
Maintenance           80            _        _       _        _       _        _        _      560        -     560        -      560      1.680     (44)
Subtotal                                                                                      959              959               959     2,877      (26)
Travel Allowance and
Overtime @ 33 percent
of staff cost c/                                             -74                                                74                74        222       ()
TOTAL                                   -                 -                -             1,033             1,033            1,033     3,099      (24)
a/ Rs 25/md, 250 working days per year
b/ At Rs 4/km, 20,000 km/yr
c/  Excluding labor cost
~- uP



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Silvicultural Treatment of Young Stands
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost        1983            1984             1985            1986            1987             1988                     FE
(Rs/ha)    ha       Cost   ha       Cost   ha       Cost   ha       Cost   ha        Cost   ha       Cost   Total Cost (%)
Teak
First Year Weeding       1,125        -     -      1,800  2,025   1,800  2,025   1,800  2,025   1,800  2,025   1,800  2,025            10,125    (0)
Second Year Weeding        375       -      -         -      -    1,800    675   1,800    675   1,800    675   1,800    675             2,700    (0)
Pine
First Year Weeding       1,125       -      -        900  1,013      900  1,012      900  1,012       900  1,012    900    1012         5,061    (0)
Second Year Weeding        375       -      -         -      -       900    338      900    338       900    338    900       338       1,352    (0)
Mahagony
First Year Weeding       1,500       -    -          300    450      300    450       300   450       300    450    300       450       2,250    (0)
Second Year Weeding        750       -    -           -      -       300    225       300   225       300    225    300       225         900    m0Q
TOTAL Base Cost            -          -    -          -   3,488        -  4,725        -  4,725        -    4725      -    4,725       22,388    (0)
in



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Reforestation of Mature Plantations
Cost           1984            1985            1986             1987            1988            Total
(Rs/ha)    Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units    Cost
Plantation Establishment
Planting and replanting         1,250        200    250      200    250      200    250       200    250      200    250   1,000   1,250
Seedlings                         620        200    124      200    124       200    124      200    124      200    124   1,000       620
Fertilizer                        225        200      45     200      45      200     45      200      45     200      45   1,000      225
Subtotal                                          419              419             419             419              419            2,095
Maintenance
First year weeding              2,000                 -      200    400       200    400      200    400      200    400       800   1,600           e
Second year weeding               750                 -       -       -       200    150      200    150      200    150       600     450           _
Third year weeding                500                 -       -       -        -      -       200    100      200    100       600     200
Protection                         37.5               -       -       _ -             -        -      -       200       8      200        8
Subtotal                                           -               400             550             650              658            2,258
TOTAL Base Cost                                   419              819             969           1,069            1,077            4,353
=  =



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PLANTATION MANAGEMENT COST
(TOTAL COST IN RS  '000)
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-------__-----------------------------
YEAR                 1983           1984            1985            1986            1987            1988         TOTALS
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------------------------
MANAGEMENT OF TEAK
STAFF                                                       -               -            298             298             298             894
LABOUR                                                      -               -            175             175             175             525
OPFRATING a MAINTENANCE                     -               -               -            560             560             560            1680
TREATMENT OF YOUNG STANI,
________________________.
LABOUR                                                  3488            4725            4725            4725            4725          22388
SEPLANT MATURE STANDS
--_______________________
LABOUR                                                   311             711             861             961             968            3810
MATERIALS                                                 108            108             108             108             108             541
BASECOST                                    -           3906            5544            6727            6827            6834          29838
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                   211             313             352             362             363            1600
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                          -          t674            3494            5243            6562            7931          24903
TOTAL COST                                    -          5791            9350           12322           t3750           15128           56341
1- X
b v



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plantation Research and Trials Capital Cost
(Rs '000)
1983           1984           1985           1986           1987            1988           Total        FE
Unit Cost   Units  Cost   Units   Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost    (Z)
Vehicles
Jeep                                                          1       210                                                                   1     210    (95)
Land Clearing Equipment
K-G blade                        230         -      -       1       230     -       -           -          -      -                       1     230    (95)
Multi-rake                       230         -      -       1       230     -       -               -      -      -      -       -        1     230    (95)
Disk plough                      350         -      -       1       350     -       -           -      -       -          -               1     350    (95)
Root plough                      500         -      -       1       500     -       -        -      -      -      -      -                1     500    (95)
Subtotal                                          -            1,310              -               -             -             -        -   1,310    (95)
Research Equipment
Instruments                       LS                                 10             20              20            5              5       -       60    (95)
Desk computer                     LS                -               210                              -            -              -       -      210    (95)
Fencing
Materials a/                      LS                -             1,000              -               _            _              _            1,000    (90)
Labor                             25                       12 b/   300               -               -            -              -              300      (0)
Subtotal                                                        1,520             20              20            5              5            1,570    (57)
Technical Assistance                                                  535            535             5              -             -             1,605    (83)
TOTAL Base Cost                                                 3,575                                                                       4,695    (79)
....             ..               ---           ...  ___..            ,     ----   _.______
a/ For fence construction
b/ 1,000 man-days
I10'



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Plantation Research and Trials Staff Cost
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost       1983            1984           1985           1986            1987           1988            Total       FE
(Rs/yr)    Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost   Units  Cost {%Y
Staff
ACF                     26          -      -.    1        26       1     26       1      26      1      26       1      26      5    130
Forest Ranger           12          -      -       1      12      1      12       1     12       1      12       1      12      5      60
Forest Guard            10          -      -       1      10       1     10       1      10      1      10       1      10      5      50
Clerk II                12         -       -       1      12      1      12       1     1Z       1      12       1     12       5      60
Typist                  12          -      -       1      12       1     12       1      12      1      12       1      12      5      60
Driver                  12          -      -       1      12       1     12       1      12      1      12       1      12      5      60
Subtotal                -           -      -       -      82      -      82       -     82       -      82       -     82             410   (0)
Travel Allowance and
Overtime Ld 33% of
Staff Cost                                         -      27      -      27       -     27       -      27       -     27       -    135
Subtotal               -            -      -       -    109       -    109        -    109             109       -    109       -    545   (0)
Consultants
Biometrician a/         40          -      -       0.5   20       -      -              -        -               -      -        0.5   20
Inputman b/            30          -       -       1.0   30       -      -        -     -        -      -        -     -         1.0   30
Clerk/typist b/         14          -      -       1.0   14       -      -        -     _        -      _        _      -        1.0   14
Subtotal                                   -              64             -              -               -              -               64   (0)
Operatin__and Maintenance                                   80             80              80             80              80            400   (50)
TOTAL Base Cost                            -             253            189             189            189             189          1,009   (20)
a/ One for six months
b/  Two for six months
m a



ANNEX 6
-78-                             Table 3
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Forestry 1)
Mechanized Plantation Trials - Unit Cost a/
(Rs '000)
Unit        Total Cost   FE
Unit    Input      Cost          (Rs/ha)   (%)
1.  Surveyor                                 md       1        25              25       (0)
2.  Knocking down (200 HP Tractor)           hr      3        750           2,250      (50)
3.  Windrawing (200 HP Tractor               hr       2       750           1,500      (50)
4.  Plowing (200 HP Tractor)                 hr      3        750           2,250      (50)
5.  Disk Harrowing (90 HP Tractor)           hr       3        96             288      (90)
6.  Staking/marking (90 HP Tractor)          hr       1        96               96     (90)
7.  Planting Seedlings (1100/buddy/ha)    md         6         25             150       (0)
8.  Replanting (30% replacement)             md      4         25              100      (0)
Subtotal                              -        -          -           6,659       (-)
9.  Seedling (@ 1600 seedling/ha)            ha       1       600             600       (0)
10.  Fertilizer                               kg     80          2.80          224      (50)
Subtotal                              -        -                        824        -
Base Establishment Cost               -        -          -           7,483      (44)
11. Weeding - First Year
- 90 HP Tractor with Disk Plow           hr      3         96             288      (90)
- 90 HP Tractor with. Disk Harrow b/   hr        3         96             288      (90)
- Labor                                  md      6         25             150       (0)
Subtotal                             -        -         -              726      (40)
12. Weeding - Second Year
- 90 HP Tractor with Disk Plow          hr      3         96             288      (90)
- 90 HP Tractor with Disk Harrow        hr      1.5       96             144      (90)
- Labor                                md       6         25             150       (0)
Subtotal                            -        -         -              582      (37)
13. Weeding - Third Year
- 90 HP Tractor with Disk Harrow        hr      3         96             288      (90)
- Labor                                 md      6         25             150       (0)
Subtotal                            -        -         -              438      (33)
TOTAL Base Cost===                                                             =
a/ Unit ha cost is based on contract planting and no differentiation is made for
species differences since espacement would be 3 x 3.
b/ Twice.



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Plantation Research and Trials - Direct Cost
(Rs '000)
Cost          1983             1984            1985             1986             1987             1988            Total         FE
(Rs/ha)   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   Units   Cost   (44)
A.  Trials
Eastern Division
Plantation establishment
(land clearing and
planting)                   7,309                                       100      731    200   1,462       -        -        -       -      300   2,193   (44)
First year weeding               726       -        -      -        -       -        -      100       73    200      145       -       -      300      218   (40)
Second year weeding              582                -      -        -       -        -       -        -      100      58      200    116    300        174   (37)
Third year weeding               438       -        -      -        -       -        _       -        _       _        _       100     44    100        44   (33)
Protection                        38       -        -      -        -       -        _      100        4    300        12     300       12     -        28    (0)
Subtotal                                         _                _               731           1,539              215              172            2,657   (42)
Southern Division
Plantation establishment
(land clearing and
planting)                  7,309        -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -     100      731      200  1,462    300   2,193   (44)
First year weeding               726                                                                         -        -       100      73    100        73   (40)
Protection                        38       -       _       -        _       -        -       -        -      -        -       100        4     -         4    (0)
Subtotal                                                                                           -               731            1,539            2,270   (44)
B.  Research
Seedlings                      1,785 a/   -         -     100 b/  179       -        -       -        -      -        -        -       -      100      179    (5)
Planting                       7,076       -        -      -        -       65      460      -        _      _        _        _       _       65      460    (5)
First year weeding             3,800       -        _-          -       -            -       65      247     -        -        _       _       65      247    (0)
Second year weeding            1,576       -        -      -        -       -                                65      102       -       -       65      102    (0)
Third year weeding             1,076       -        -      -        -       -        -       -        -      -        -         65     70      65       70    (0)
Surveys and Measurements          25 c/   -         -      -        -   4,560       114    520        13     80        2      120       3  5,280       132    (0)
Vehicles - operating               4 d/   -         -       -       80      -        80      -        80      -        80      -       80      -       400   (44)
Subtotal                                         -               259              654             340              184              153            1,590    (3)
TOTAL Base Cost                                  -               259            1,385           1,879            1,130            1,864            6,517   (35)
a/  per 1,000 seedlings
b/  100,000 seedlings
c/  per man-day
d/  20,000 km/yr @ Rs 4/km                                                                                                                .                           >  



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMiENT PROJECT
PLANTATION RESEARCH AND TRIALS
(TOTAI. COST IN RS '000)
YEAR             1983          L984         t985          1986         1.987         1.988      TOTALS
VEHICLES                                          210            -             -            -             -          210
EQUIPMENT                              -         2830           20            20            5             5         2880
PLANTATION ESTABLISHMENT               -          179         1305          1799         1050          1784         6117
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   -53                      35           535                          -         1605        o
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                      -           64            -             -                                      64
STAFF                                  -          109          109           109          109           109          545
OPERATING I MAINTENANCE                -           80           80            80           80            80          400
BASE COST                                        4007         2049         2543          1244         1978         11821
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                              9           65            90           53            89          306
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                    -          788          887          1441          947          1807         5870
TOTAL COST                             -         4804         3002         4074          2244         3874         17997
L= =_ 



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL. PRO.JECT COSTS
(TOTAI. COST IN RS '000)
YEAR             1983          1984         1985         1986         1987          1988       TOTALS
MASTERPLAN                        1831        19297        17338         3381          1623         1623        45094
INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS             2052        13658         9253        11768         15139        21455        73326
MANAGEMENT OF TEAK                    -            -             -         1033         1033         1033          3099
TREATMENT OF YOUNG STAND              -         3488         4725          4725         4725         4725         22388
REPLANT MATURE STANDS                            419          819           969         1069         1076          4351
RESEARCH AND TRIALS                   -         4007         2049          2543         1244         1978         lt821
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING               271        10636         4213          4139         2459         2459         24178
TECHNICAL TRAINING                    -         4841         2270          1131          761          761          9765
BASE COST                          4155        56346        40666        29689         28054        35111        194021
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               39         1844         1120          1144         1363          1708         7219
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                 561        14899        17508         19070        24639        37721        114399
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 4755        73089        59294         49904        54057        74540        315639
x0



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL. FROJECT COSTS
(TOTAL COST TN US $ '000)
YEAR              1983         1984          1985         1986.         1987          1988    * TOTALS
MASTERF'LAN                          87          919           826          161            77            77         2147
INDUSTRIAL PLANTATIONS                98          650           441          560           721          1022         3492
MANAGEMENT OF TEAK                     -             -            -            49           49            49           148
TREATMENT OF YOUNG STAND               -          166           225          225           225           225         1066
REPLANT MATURE STANDS                  -           20            39            46           51            51          207
RESEARCH AND TRIALS                    -          191            98           121           59            94          563
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING-                13          506           201          197           117           117         1151
TECHNICAL TRAINING                     -          231           108           54            36            36          465
BASE COST                            198         2683          t936         1414          1336          1672         9239
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 2           88            53            54           65            8i          344
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   27          709           834          908          1173          1796         5448
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   226         3480          2824         2376          2574          3550        15030



SRI L.ANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVEI..OPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL PROJECT COST BY NATURE
(TOTAL. COST IN RS '000)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__------------------------------
YEAR             1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988       TOTALS
CIVIL WORKS                                    7843         1898          449          261           82        10533
VEHICLES                             -         7820            -            -            -            -         7820
EQUIPM & MATERIALS                 218         9017         1117         1285         1658         2100        15396
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              2512        19812        20087         7108         1123         1123        51765
SCHOLARSHIPS                         -          210          840          840          840          840         3570
LOCAI. CONSULTANTS                 945         1386          522          522          322          322         4019
LABOUR                               -         5088         8719        11475        16096        21646        63023
OPERATING 8 MAINTENANCE             SO         3563         4717         5317         4709         5580        23966
STAFF                              400         1607         2766         2693         3045         3418        13930
BASECOST                          4155        56346        40666        29689        28054        35111       194021
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              39         1844         1120         1144         1363         1708         7219
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                561        14899        17508        19070        24639        37721       114399
TOTAl F'ROJECT COST               4755        73089        59294        49904        54057        74540       315639
W >4



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL PROJECT COST BY NATURE
(TOTAL COST IN US $ '000)
-----------------------------------------------_-------------------------__--__-----------------------------
YEAR                1983           1984            1985           1986           1987            1988        TOTALS
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__-----------------------------
CIVIL WORKS                                              373             90              21             12               4           502
VEHICLES                                    -            372               -              -              -               -           372
EQUIPM & MATERIALS                         10            429             53              61             79            100            733
TECHNICAL. ASSISTANCE                   .120             943            957            338              53             53           2465
SCHOLARSHIPS                                -             10             40              40             40             40             170
LOCAL CONSULTANTS                          45             66             25              25             15             15             191           A
LABOUR                                      -            242            415            546             766           1031           300i
OPERATING t MAINTENANCE                     4            170            225            253             224            266           t141
STAFF                                      19             77            t32            128             145            163            663
BASECOST                                  198          2683            1936           1414           1336            1672           9239
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      2             88             53              54             65             81            344
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        27            709            834            908           1173            1796           5448
TOTAL. PROJECT COST                      226           3480            2824           2376           2574            3550          15030
4~1



-85-                               ANNEX 8
Table 1
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ M)
Disbursement
Year       Quarter       IDA FY       Quarter          For Quarter       Cumulative      %
1983          I          FY 83           III
II                          IV
III          FY 84             I                -                -
IV                          II                0.1              0.1          1
1984          I                          III               0.2              0.3          3
II                          IV                0.2              0.5          6
III          FY 85             I               0.3              0.8          9
IV                          II                0.3              1.1         12
1985          I                         III                0.4              1.5         17
II                          IV                0.5              2.0         22
III          FY 86             I               0.4              2.4         27
IV                          II                0.4              2.8         31
1986          I                          III               0.4              3.2         36
II                          IV                0.3              3.5         39
III          FY 87             I               0.3              3.8         42
IV                          II                0.3              4.1         46
1987          I                         III                0.3              4.4         49
II                          IV                0.3              4.7         52
III          FY 88             I               0.4              5.0         56
IV                          II                0.4              5.4         60
1988          I                          III               0.4              5.8         64
II                          IV                0.4              6.2         69
III          FY 89             I               0.4              6.6         73
IV                          II                0.4              7.0         78
1989          I                          III               0.5              7.5         83
II                          IV                0.5              8.0         89
III          FY 90             I               0.5              8.5         94
IV                          II                0.5              9.0        100



ANNEX 8
- 86-                                               Table 2
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost, Pinancing and IDA Credit Allocation
Vehicles      Consultants'            Plantation                          FINNIDA       Operating
Civil Works   Equipment    Services and               Activities                         Technical         and          Staff          Total
Materials   Training Abroad   (Labor & Services)   Unallocated   Assistance   laintenance   Salaries                    Gost
------------------------------------------------------------ Rs '000 ------------------------------------------------- --------
Master Plan                                         2,747              4,393                  520                             27,698          4,800        4,936       45,o4
Physical Contingencies                              -                  -                     -                                 -              240          247           4S7
Price Contingencies                                 607              2,478                  312                              5,999          1,3j0        3,895       14,591
Total              -           3,354              6,871                  832              -             33,697          6,340         9,07d       6O,172
Professional Training                  3,524        3,814             13,000                                                                  2,724        1,116       24,176
Physical Contingencies                 352          289                 -                                                                     272          -             913
Price Contingencies                  1,361          699              5,082                                                                 1,702           848        9,653
Total             5,237        4,802             18,082                   -               -                             4,698         1,925       34,744
Technical Training                     3,097        2,905                 160                                                                 2,063        1,54U         9,76)
Physical Contingencies                 310           199                -                                                                     103          -             612
Price Contingencies                  1,493          724                 123                                                                1,291         1,181        4,812
Total             4,900        3,828                283                   -               -                 -           3,457         2,721       15,1i9
Industrial Plantations                 3,912       10,118                 945               36 980                            11,489          4,982        4,899       73,325
Physical Contingencies                 391           317                -                  1,849                               -              499          245        3,301
Price Contingencies                  1,853        4,642                 189               36,338                             3,986         3,149         4,408       54,565
Total            6,156        15,077              1,134               75,167              -             15,475          8,630         9,552      131,191
Plantation Management                                  543                                  26,723                                            1,680          894        29,840
Physical Contingencies                                27                                   1,552                                                            24         1,599
Price Contingencies                                  311                                  22,564                                            1,187          842       24,904
Total               -            881                 -                50,839              -                 -           2,867         1,756       56,343
Research and Trials                                  3,364                  64               5,843                             1,605            440           545      il,821
Physical Contingencies                                14                  -                  291                               -              -            -             305
Price Contingencies                                  732                  26               3,979                               486            229          418        5,870
Total               -          4,110                   90              10,113             -               2,091            629          963       17,99b
Total Base Cost                       10,533       23,491               18,562              70,066                            40,792         16,649       13,930      194,023
Physical Contingencies               1,053           846                 -                 3,692                               -            1,114          512        7,217
Price Contingencies                  4,707        7,715                7,898              63,193                            10,471         8,858        11,553      114,395
TOTAL PROJECT COST (Rs '000)          16,293       32,052               26,460             136,951                            51,263         26,621       25,995      315,635
TOTAL PROJECT COST (085 '000)            775         1,526               1,260               6,522                             2,441          1,268        1,238        15,434
IDA Disbursement Rate (Z)                 90            92 a/              100                   90                                0              0             0
Amount '000 US $                     697        1,410               1,260                5,873             -                                                        9,240
less transfer to unallocated:
Physical Contingencies                50           40                   -                  175             265
10% of Price Contingencies            22           37                   37                 300            396
b25        1,                  I ,5,398                               661                                                      9,240
Rounding off                        -25           -33                 -23                 -198            +39                                                        -240
Total IDA Allocation                     600         1,300               1,200               5,200             700                                                       9,100
FINNIDA Financing                                                                                                              2,441                                     2,441
Government Financing                      78           116                 -                   649             240               -            1,268        1,238         3,589
TOTAL Financing                                                                                                                                                         15,030
IDA Allocation in SDR'000 b/             570         1,230               1,                  4                 670 9,500
a/  Based on 100Z foreign procurement of vehicles and 50% foreign
and 50% local procurement of eqipment and materials.
b/ At an exchange rate of US$1 = SDR 0.94, rounded.



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Foreign-assisted Forest Plantation Proects
Projected Planting by year ('000 ha)_
Financing                  Target    End Use
Proiect                      Agency         Period      (ha)      of Wood          1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Tree Crop Rehabilitation    IDA Cr. 818    1979-83          590        FW              0.1     -       -       -      -       -
Tree Crop Di-versification   IDA Cr. 819    1979-83    3,700    FW, Timb                -      -       -
2nd Rural Development         IDA Cr. 1079   1981-85    6,700    FW, Timb, Pulp   1.4    1.5    1.7           -       _       _
Mahaweli Development III    IDA Cr. 1166   1982-86    1,500            FW              0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3        -      -
IRDP:  Hambantota             NORAD           1979-82    2,000         FW
Matara                SIDA             1980-82    1,500         FW
Nuwara Eliya          Dutch Aid        1980-84    5,200         FW             1.0    1.0       -      -       - 
Watershed, Mahaweli           USAID            1980-84    6,000    FW, Pulp, etc.   1.2    1.2           
Fuelwood, Mahaweli            USAID           1980-84   14,000         FW              2.8    2.8      -       -      -       -
Fuelwood, Badulla             ADB             1982-87   14,000         FW              2.3    2.4    2.4    2.3    2.3        -
Fuelwood Village Lots         ADB             1983-87    4,300         FW              0.9    0.9    0.4    0.8    0.8        -
Subtotal                                       59,490                       10.0   10.1    5.3    3.4    3.1        -
Forestry I.(proposed)         IDA             1984-88    8.000        Timb              -     0.4    0.7    1.4    2.3    3.2
TOTAL                                          67,490                       10.0   10.5    6.0    4.8    5.4    3.2
===S==       ===::  ====    ===    ~        ~===     ====5
1H1



- 88 -
ANNEX 9
Table 2
SRI LAN4KA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area Planted by Species and Method of Plantation
(ha)
1983       1984       1985       1986       1987        1988       Total         (%)
Contract
E. Tereticornis                 -          50         150        275        800      1,500        2,775       (34.69)
E. Citriodora                   -          30          70        150        450        650       1,350        (16.87)
Subtotal                     -          80        220        425      1,250       2,150       4,125        (51.56)
Tectona Grandis                 -          75          75        150        125        125          550        (6.87)
Gmelina Arborea                 -           15         35         75         75         75          275        (3.44)
Subtotal                     -          90        110        225         200        200         825        (10.31)
Albizia Odorotissima            -           15         35         75         75          75         275        (3.44)
Azadirachta Indica              -          15          35         75         75         75          275        (3.44)
Subtotal                    _           30         70        150         150        150         550         (6.88)
Total - Contract             -         200        400        800       1,600      2,500       5,500        (68.75)
Taungya
E. Tereticornis                 -          50         100        275        350        350        1,125       (14.06)
E. Citriodora                   -          50         100        200        200        200          750        (9.38)
Subtotal                     -         100        200        475         550        550       1,875       (23.44)
Tectona Grandis                 -          25          25         50         75         75          250        (3.13)
Gmelina Arborea                 -          25          25         25         25         25          125        (1.56)
Subtotal                     -          50         50         75         100        100         375         (4.69)
Albizia Odorotissima            -           25         25         25         25          25         125        (1.56)
Azadirachta Indica              -          25          25         25         25         25          125        (1.56)
Subtotal                     -          50         50         50          50         50         250         (3.12)
Total - Taungya              -         200        300        600         700        700       2,500        (31.25)
TOTAL               -         400        700      1,400      2,300       3,200       8,000          (100)
(of which: Ripping)       -          100        175        350        575         800       2,000       (25.00)



ANNEX 9
Table 3
- 89 -
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yield Assumptions for Plantations
MAI                                   Yield   Distribution of Products %
Species        m3/ha      Age       Treatment          m3       PL   SL   TP   CP   FW
1. Eucalyptus        15         5        Thinning           20        -    -      -   10   90
10       Thinning           30        -    -    10   30   60
15        Thinning           60        -   20    20   20   40
20     Final Felling        190        -   60    10    5   25
2. Eucalyptus        20         5        Thinning           25        -    -      -   10   90
9       Thinning           40         -    -    10   30   60
13        Thinning           80        -   20    20   20   40
18     Final Felling       215        -   60    10    5   25
3. Teak               7        10        Thinning           10        -    -    10   40   50
15        Thinning          20         -   10    40   30   20
20        Thinning           20        -   20    40   20   20
30        Thinning           40        -   50    30    -   20
40     Final Felling        180       15   55    20    -   10
4. Hardwoods         15         5        Thinning           20        -    -      -    -  100
10       Thinning            30        -    -      -    -  100
15       Thinning           60        -   20       -    -   80
20     Final Felling        190        -   60      -    -   40
PL = Peeler, SL = Sawlog, TP = Transmission Poles, CP = Construction Pole,
FW = Fuelwoods, MAI = Mean Annual Increment



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE 8: Forest Department Major Staff Categories and Salaries
Annual       a/                a/ 1982 Average
Authorized    Filled        Salary   Salary Scale (Rs)   Estimated 1982   Including COL
Designation                      Positions    Positions    Group    Minimum   Maximum    Average (Rs)    Allowance (Rs)
Conservator                            1            1          19.03   36,600      43,200          43,000          44,000
Deputy Conservator                     5            5          19.03   36,600      43,200          37,000          38,000
Assistant Conservator                 22           18          14.08   18,60Q0    30,600           25,000          26,000
Chief Accountant                       1            1          17.04   31,200-    35,700           33,000          34,000
Accountant                             2            1          14.08   18,600      30,600          25,000          26,000
Administrative Officer                 1            1          13.07   14,760      25,200          25,000          26,000
Foresters                                          51          11.02   12,360      15,600          14,000          15,000
Range Forest Officer                              189           8.05    9,060       12,840         11,000          12,000                 0
Beat Forest Officers (Guards)                    461            2.04    7,740       9,600           8,700          10,000
Research Officer                                    4          14.08   18,600      30,600          25,000          26,000
Laboratory Assistant                                1           8.05    9,060       12,840         11,000           12,000
Draughtsman                                        10           n.a.   12,360       15,240         13,000          14,000
Technical Assist. Foreman                           7           8.09    7,940       12,840         11,000          12,000
Carpenter/Fitter/Electrician
Woodwork/Machinist                                            4.01    8,340       11,040          9,700          11,000
Clerk/Secretary Class I                                        11.02   12,360       15,600         14,000          15,000
Clerk/Secretary Class II                                        8.03    9,060       12,120         11,000          12,000
Pump Operator                                      19           1.04    6,960        7,980          7,500            9,000
Driver                                                      2.02-05    7,500         9,960          8,700          10,000
Laborer                                           239           1.01    6,600        7,320          7,000           8,000
a/  In addition to these salaries, staff receive a cost of living allowance.  This allowance is index-based
and was Rs 106/month in May 1982 or equal to Rs 1,272 on an annual basis.
(DX
C)



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle and Equipment Operating and Maintenance Cost
Purchase      Annual        Economic       -------        Cost per km (hr)-----------
Price       Operation        Life                                                           Total      0 & M Annual
Item                       '000 Rs   '000 km (hr) '000 km (hr)   Fuel    Oil    Tires    Maint.    Total    Rounded                   '000 Rs
7-ton truck                         630            20          1000         1.5    0.05    0.68        4.30         6.5         7            140
Farm tractor (90 hp)                650           (1.0)        (20)      (54)     (1)       (8)      (33)        (96)         (96)            96
Pickup                              210            20          100          1.2    0.01      0.25      2.10         3.6         4             80
4-wheel drive GP                    210            20          100          1.2    0.01    0.25        2.10         3.6         4             80
125 cc motorcycle                    25             5           25         0.25   negl.   0.08         1.0          1.4         1              5
Minibus                             250            20          100          1.2    0.01    0.25        2.5          3.96        4             80
4-wheel drive st. wag.              250            20          100          1.2    0.01    0.25        2.5          3.96        4             80
4 Nursery pumps ( 1 hp              100           (1.5)        (20)        (5)     (0.4)      -       (5.6)      (11)         (11)            17
(D >,
N-) H
o



- 92 -
ANNEX 10
Table 3
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Timber Corporation Sales Prices 1981
Item                                Sales Price
Rs/m3             US$/m3  a/
Boards (planks)
Luxury Class (teak, mahogany) b/               7,900                410
Special Class c/                               5,490                285
Class I (eucalyptus) cI                        4,960                258
Class 2 c/                                     3,950                205
Class 3 c/                                     3,460                180
Imported                                       6,740                350
Saw Logs (diameter)
Luxury Class
Teak         (40-50 cm)                      3,460                180
(25-30 cm)                      1,520                 79
Mahogany    (40-50 cm)                       2,440                127
(25-30 cm)                      1,110                 38
Special Class (40-50 cm)                       1,460                 76
(25-30 cm)                        930                 48
Class I                                        1,310                 68
II                                         990                  51
III                                          810                 42
a/  At 1981 rates of US $1 = Rs 19.25
b/ Average of 13 x 250 mm and 19 x 250 mm (common furniture dimensions)
c/ Average of 19 x 75 mm and 25 x 300 mm (common construction dimensions)



- 93 -                            ANNEX 10
Table 4
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions Used for Calculation of Stumpage Value
Rs/m3             Rs/m3               US$/m3
Item                       Logs              Lumber              Lumber
Felling                          34                  68               3.24
Logging                          17                  34               1.62
Transport from forest
1 km to storage                79                 158               7.52
130                260              12.38
Loading/unloading                20                  40               1.90
Transport 50 km                 150                 300              14.29
170                340               16.19
TOTAL Delivered Mill            300                 600              28.57 (say 30)
Conversion                      225                 450              21.42 (say 20)
Value of Firewood                50                 100               4.76 (say 5)
Assumption - Recovery from logs is:
Sawnwood 50%
Firewood 25%
Waste    25%



SRI LANKA
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Financial and Economic Stumpage for Teak
(in constant 1982 prices)
Financial Prices                         Economic Prices a/
Peeler Log   Saw Log        Peeler Log   Saw Log   Peeler Log   Saw Log
(Rs/m )    (Rs/mn )         (Rs/m )    (Rs/m )    (US$1/m )   (US$/m )
Price FOB Port - Sri Lanka b/              8,430       4,845            8,430      4,845         401         230
Loading and port charges                     190         190               152       152            7           7
Transport to port                            300         240              240        240          11          11
Extraction costs                             130         130              104        104           5           5
Stumpage value                             7,810       4,225            7,934      4,346         378         207
a/  Using a SCF of 0.8 for domestic costs
b/  Basis:  Export prices of Java (plantation) teak are only about 2% lower than prices for Burmese natural              0 M
teak.  Sri Lanka plantation teak is assumed similar in quality to Java teak and, since Burmese export               uL e
prices are readily available, these have been used, adjusted by 2% for quality difference.  For Peeler
logs, third quality Burma peeler logs 40-48 cm diam., 2.5-5 m length were used. For sawlogs, the
average of 39-48 cm diam., 2.5-5.7 m length and 29-38 cm diam., 5+ m length unsorted quality logs were used.



- 95 -
ANNEX 10
Table 6
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Financial and Economic
Stumpage Values for Eucalyptus
(in constant 1982 prices)
Financial                              Economic a/
Rs per m               US$ per m          Rs per m      US$ per m
Sawnwood      Logs     Sawnwood       Logs    Logs                   Logs
1981 CIF Import Price b/
(Kempas sawn timber)          4,940      2,470          236        118         2,470              118
Adjustment for quality
differential (factor) c/       0.74       0.74         0.74       0.74          0.74             0.74
Adjusted CIF Price              3,660      1,830          174         87         1,830                87
Port Charges                       190        95            10         5             75                4
Ex Port/Ex Sawmill              3,470      1,735          164        132         1,755                84
Conversion Cost                   450        225           20         10           180                 9
Transport to Mill                 340        170            16         8           135                 6
Extraction Cost                    260        130           12         6            105                5
Subtotal                  2,420      1,210          116         58         1,335               64
Add value of by-product
firewood                        100         50            4          2            55                 3
Eucalyptus Stumpage Value       2,520      1,260          120         60         1,390                67
a/ Using a SCF of 0.8 for domestic costs.
b/ Actual average over year.
c/ Ratio between Timber Corporation's selling price for
eucalyptus and imported sawnwood.



- 96 
ANNEX 10
Table 7
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Stumpage Values
for Telepoles, Construction Poles and Firewood
Telepoles and                      Telepoles                   Construction
Construction Poles                   (Rs)                       Poles (Rs)
Economic price per pole                350                           50
Equivalent price per m3  a/          2,800                        1,470
Production cost per m3                 800                          712
Economic stumpage value
per Rs/m3                          1,800                          758
Firewood                                           Firewood
(Rs)
Price Rs/m3  stacked                                  120
Equivalent per m3 solid                               200
Conversion factor for kerosene                       (1.44)
Economic price                                        288
Harvesting and transport to depot
(0.8 x 75)                                           60
Stumpage value                                        228
a/ Based on average dimensions of poles:
Telepoles 20 cm diam hud, 10 m length
Construction poles 12 cm diam hud, 5 m length



- 97 -                            ANNEX 10
Table 8
SRI LANKA
FORESTRY RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Prices, Economic Prices and Conversion Factors
Financial        Economic         Conversion
Item               Unit           Prices           Prices             Factor
Labor                    Rs/day             25               20                0.8 a/
TSP (46% P 0 )           Rs/kg               3.0              6.0 b/           2.0
NPK (15:15:15)           Rs/kg               2.8              5.3 b/            1.9
Seed c/                                                                        0.9
Polypots                 Rs/pot              0.1              0.1              1.0
Civil Works d/                                                                 0.85
Equipment e/                                                                   0.9
Vehicles e/                                                                    1.0
Operating Costs e/                                                             0.87
Technical Assistance e/                                                        0.95
a/ Standard conversion factor
b/ CIF import prices adjusted for handling and transport
c/ SCF on 50% domestic material
d/ 3% MTT + 3% contractor tax + 55% of 10% profit tax = 12% tax
25% FE CF = 1, 75%-12% tax = 63% x SCF;  0.25 x 1 + 0.63 x 0.8  = 0.85
0.88
e/ SCF on local costs



- 98 -
ANNEX 11
Table 1
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Project Revenues from Harvesting Mature Stands
1984      1985     1986      1987      1988
1.  1,000 ha Mature Stands                                        (ha)
Area harvested                             200       200       200       200       200
Production at 300                                            '000
Total        100%                           60        60        60        60        60
Sawlogs       70%                           42        42        42        42        42
Telepoles    20%                            12        12        12        12        12
Firewood      10%                            6         6         6         6         6
Gross Sales Revenue  a/                                       Rs M
Sawlogs                                     50.4      50.4      50.4      50.4      50.4
Telepoles                                   33.6      33.6      33.6      33.6      33.6
Firewood                                     0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7
84.7     84.7      84.7      84.7      84.7
Net Sales Revenue  a/
Sawlogs                                     37.8      37.8      37.8      37.8      37.8
Telepoles                                   24.0      24.0      24.0      24.0      24.0
Firewood                                     0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3
62.1      62.1     62.1      62.1      62.1
Contribution to TC fixed costs
(30% of costs)                             6.8      6.8       6.8       6.8       6.8
Royalty to FD (10% of gross sales)           8.5       8.5       8.5       8.5       8.5
Business turnover tax (5% on sales)          4.2       4.2       4.2       4.2       4.2
Gross Profit                              42.6      42.6      42.6     42.6      42.6
Tax on profit (55%)                       23.4      23.4      23.4      23.4      23.4
Net Profit at 1982 prices                 19.2      19.2      19.2      19.2      19.2
a/  Rs/m3                Sawlogs    Telepoles    Constrpoles    Firewood
Gross Sales Value              1,200        2,800          1,470            120
Direct Costs                     300          800             720            75
Net Value                        900        2,000             750            45



_ 99 -
ANNEX 11
Table 2
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Project Revenues from Thinnings
1986     1987      1988
2.  Thinning of 10,000 ha teak                                              (ha)
Area treated                                                  3,333    3,333    3,333
Production @ 10                                                        '000
Total                100%                                      33       33        33
Telepoles             10%                                       3         3         3
Construction poles  40%                                        13        13       13
Firewood              50%                                      17        17        17
Gross Sales Revenue                                                     Rs M
Telepoles                                                       8.4       8.4       8.4
Construction poles                                             19.1      19.1      19.1
Firewood                                                        2.0       2.0       2.0
29.5     29.5      29.5
Net Sales Revenue
Telepoles                                                       6.0       6.0       6.0
Construction poles                                              9.8       9.8       9.8
Firewood                                                        0.8       0.8      0.8
16.6     16.6      16.6
Contribution to TC fixed costs (30% of costs)                   3.9       3.9       3.9
Royalty to Forest Department (10% of gross sales)               3.0       3.0       3.0
Business turnover tax (5% on gross sales)                      1.5       1.5       1.5
Gross Profit                                                    8.2       8.2       8.2
Tax on profit (55%)                                             4.5       4.5       4.5
Net Profit at 1982 prices                                       3-7       3.7       3.7



- 100 -
ANNEX 11
Table 3
SRI LANKA                             T
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Total Project Revenues
(Rs M)
1984     1985      1986      1987      1988
Sources of Funds (1982 prices) a/
Net sales revenues due project               62.1      62.1      78.7     78.7      78.7
Uses of Funds (1982 prices) a/
Contribution to TC fixed costs                6.8       6.8      10.7     10.7      10.7
Forest Department royalties                   8.5       8.5      11.5     11.5      11.5
Business turnover tax                         4.2       4.2       5.7      5.7       5.7
Gross profit before taxes                  42.6      42.6     50.8      50.8      50.8
Tax on profit                            23.4      23.4     27.9      27.9      27.9
Net profit at 1982 prices                  19.2      19.2     22.9      22.9      22.9
Sources of Funds (current prices) b/
Net sales revenues due project               87.6      99.4    138.4    152.3    167.6
Uses of Funds (current prices) b/
Contribution to TC fixed costs                9.6      10.9      18.8     20.7      22.8
Forest Department royalties                  12.0      13.6      20.2     22.3      24.5
Business turnover tax                         5.9       6.7      10.0     11.0      12.1
Gross profit before taxes                  60.1      68.2     89.4      98.3    108.2
Tax on profit                              33.0      37.5     49.1      54.0      59.4
Net profit at current prices               27.1      30.7     40.3      44.3      48.8
a/ From harvesting of mature stands and teak thinnings
b/ See main body of report (Table 4) for inflation rates



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Industrial Plantation
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
(Rs '000)
Investment     Labor          Material         Ripping         Operating        Total         Total          Net
Periods            Costs        Costs           Costs            Costs            Costs          Costs       Benefits       Benefits
1                  1733                              -               -            6.6          1799               -          -179I
10136           1 083            378              510$ 1-                                                   *   
,r                 4045            321            62.              96           1495           85-79                          8 5 79
.4                 2 9 I? 0,      4800           1238             192           1 67 S9       1.0 800                        1e80
866 5X'9                     1954             315           1981           371 4              -        -13714
6 -5 6.     I1   3 3.'7                       438           2 2 9         193 4                          J1. 710
-.         5 '- ~8                    -                  2280           8108l)          1368           674 0
'o'                    -          6.e'              -                          2280           4926            2736           21909
1302                                         2380            35R2           5472            1890
to                                2,O                                           22 "ID0        2532            9576           7044
11O                   '            A _/ _                                       2 28 r ^e2532                1Z600           11140
1                                  22                                           2              25 35            5 0.
13                                 2520                                                         _2 532         6693           4 11
14                         _              _                                     2280           25 32         133671          111 3'-
15                                 2 2                                            80 C)532 32i09 6                           21. 5 63'
1 6                                2.  2                                          80           2552          34521.          31.9?O8
17                                 25 2                                                         - 20232      1. i, 54 7      14 0 14
1                      -A,         on                                          22 e.- CS      25t D 2       4. t b ss47     1 401 rers .  2  ..  ._.7.280 2532  31752  2 9219
1                                  '          2      5              --         _ 2280          2532          65017           67" 484
20                                 2 5 2                                         2)- 2280      2532         1 15172         1 12640
2' 1                               "-                                           228 -   22  80  2 5 32     1. 6 53 27 71 6 2 9-
2280 2)32                    70800           68267
23'Z                   _           r746                                         2195           2441         140121          137680
4                     -23Z                          --                         20 24          2257         282336          280073'i9
20C)             -                          1682            1886         496C-82        494696
1.4              -.                         1083            1231         710828         7 09596 9 6
-31                 -6 3                                                      22,291                                        29
*7 2 - 3 3.                           3                                                          291          11034          10743 4 3
.14 3 6                              63                                          228             291          220            219 77 
3" 47-1                             63                                          .220'            291                            29
'T 2 4                              63                                           228             291         71338           71.047
4  4                                 63                                          2'8             291        1. 4 2          1 .4384



- 102 -                              ANNEX 12
Chart 1
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GRRRH OF PRESENT VRILUES VFRSUS OISCOUNT RRTE
uD 175.0
K 150.0     
,   oi.   _ 0 -       \
fD          -
75 " 0                  .    - 0
ts       1212.01.   1.    fi0 1.01.    1.                            .00
C) 
D 10.0
OT   -I
> 75.0C
UfD
Li
5 2  .0                           iII
xLO'    12.0  13.0' 14.0  15.0  16.0  17.0  18.0  19.0  '20.0  211.0
,DISCOUNT RT
L-E 0-EN 0
12.00X  - OPPORT'UNITY  CnST OF CRF.ITR'
-      -                  _ TOTAL BENEFITS
--  _ TOTRP' COSTS



- 103 -                                                  ANNEX 12
Chart 2
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
) (' f-7 6)F- -F >!,~~~F- T T _ f (> T <T                       - ( L.j T S 'rr ,
L            _
o'D ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ j                                        L
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c 7                           7 r-'-
7        F-                               _~~
I- ,                                                         -.
cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r e -                                ,~ Tti   
- --
F- 
''     L'   L  ''iL', JI  .LJJI i . ;I I              I    I,ii,   ,,     LLLLJJL, I ;     i .  ,II ,  I ';;, 'ILt,, 1 
j  r-'   IU Uw    ;    O~       D     8J 9L '39    t3 4J    45 r,    r- j                5  3a   703
.~~~~~~~~~~~u    E  FE:    L LJ 
r.       !'L  ~'                                    C' C         iTNfP             f ^,
L.1 7 JL 1[IJi  1.:'A  <C   .C~~ tJI1      c~    
f fLr-    C !l  T C L jTP  N  -U1iq   SCi '



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forest Department Organizational Chart
Min,st,r
Mn,M,t y  ofl nds and
Land D- -elopment
Addititt Secre ar..     I
Tehebicel                                                                                                                                                                               Finrcr_.  Ftbli,hmeot
Deuth Conservator                 Deputy Cor ettator                                                            Deputy Cortecoator                      Doputy Conrpato                        DeputV Censproator                    Deputy Conecator                              Finanee
or Forest  Of Forest                    - Char Research Officer                        of~~~~~~~~~" ForeSt                      ffFretF-FretChe
Management                     _   Researchand Educe.                                                              Waknd    Plne      _                      Plo enigd                                 aof ForF t                                                                 ACcoenO
non end Fettosiun                                           arct~~~~~~~~~~~in  tc-tt-r              De0- ren1pcalPoet                                                         Com-or.t  F.Cet
R--r  Offhop                                                                                                     Officern
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T""                                              r                         I                                                                                                        . rI 
TFo         ,hrest .                                                                                                                                                    Prje FIel
Diuis,ional            Di.im ... I             Divi P-Iti Di ral-I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      . D
|   Saweill and   l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ Dolipa                           Ojiipa                   Pi leru
FoRast DMttic| Forest Offic                    Frs  Dtt cer                            Forest Of|iper          Forest c  F     Offce                Fpre f
Wesen, Divkipr             orhceta             (Norher  Drasio,jn)      Eya-rrr Dtiv ion)                  ,n                     n
Otoislo                                          Dmioinl                                                                Oivds,co                  Divni-io
Ran,epor-a              Rar,gePo.rre            Rac, For-s               RaeyoFes-                RarreF.r-o             mrFcrest                 Ranglrp F-
Offiprr     l           Officerr                Officer                   Ottipar     l          Officer                  Oftlicer    |    |      Otfipee
ne8eatForsast              Rege oreer    |         grBatyForest   |    0Bet   Fr es            | BatFt5  O praryoree       Brat Forest              Spu raForest 
Officer                 Officer Offe                                     offie                   Offic-r                 OtficN r                 OffcrW
Word fort  24092



SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicative Time Schedlie 'or Consultants and Major Studies
DURATION                                             YEARS1
(Months)                       1998                    |    1986           1987           1938
ADV^I.,ORS                                                           <  lr>T--1 -T   Y--IC-r
SENIOR PLANNING ADVISOR                36                   4rj                  4
ECONOMIST                              1s
DATA PROCESSING ADVISOR                 3
FORESI- INDUSTRIES ADVISOR              3
LOGGING AND TRANSPOR1' ADVISOR          3                                                       |
WOOD UTILIZATION ADVISOR                3
MANAGEMENT- ACCOUNT-ANT                 6
FOREST INVENTORY SPECIALIST             '.2  ...
FOREST MANAGEMENT ADVISOR               18      ....
PHOTOGRAMMETRY ADVISOR                   3
PLANTATION ADVISOR                     43
PLANTAFION RESEARCH ADVISOR              6
FIRE PROTECTION ADVISOR                 6                                                                                                             1
VISITING LECTURERS (ST)                 14
VISITING L ECTURERS (LT)                24
UNSPECIFIED CONSULTANTS!-]              20                 :
218-                I                                                     
STUDIES
MARKET/DEMAND STUDY
INDUSTRY STUDY
LOGGING AND TRANSPORT STUDY
WOOD UTILIZATION STUDY
INSTITUTION/MAN POWER STUDY
FOREST INVENTORY                                ................ .......|..... 
NON-FOREST WOOD RESOURCE STUDY
MASTER PLAN PREPARATION
DETAILED INVESTMENT PLAN
- For the formulation of a 5-year investment program.                                                                         World Bank-24241



l~~~~



IBRD 16518
ao-                                                               a'O-                                                           JULY 1982
SRI LANKA
FOREST RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
$ PROJECTX                                                             ............ (FORESTRY  I)
PROJECT PLANTATION SITES AND FOREST COVER
--_'~ )       i                                                                Pro1ect Pl-ntation Sites
*     E.isting Plentali-ns
( } J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Forest Rese-ves
1                                                                                     Forest Divisionol Boundaries
Agro-l-rnoti  Zonal Boundaries
0    Towns and Villoges
  Nationa  Capital
/          *            s~l                     -.---v-~  Railoads
Toloirnsvsss          /               Mvaskubs l-k                                                         Rieors
-9  0J/  O         T    H            R    N                                 -       -International B-ondories
v 2 1  ? 1       X            * _  ~~~~~ t ndooosrcliiy
5vM   S/  5 X g g 7 2 0 e >                    sr                  0;lovel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Svtclo
. 0  20  30                                                                               B.
7r                                                                                                                                                          7i<// / C 6 N   7  R     A
riS ius,nioins rh edrs              ,,of'                       /                                       ;+                   ~               j
55N0555 BssiiS tsh us vfisioros so'T
SRI LANKA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~54 TL
80N g-b
KIE/METERS >,eob  eoi  h     
O,   10    20   3[0   4t  0 so             \             /yF)./                                        >                  
-7.                                                                                                                                                                                               70  )     SX *     au       <
-hsmp-a tmperbyTeCiO4C  ht  +    
-1-0 t0vnm,'T @tWebfY+Ks  n   k                                           t         )         +            t     2 
Me deo  t0sue  d e*%1'                                                                            *            4                                                       fPfur
betundentsshowmon hsmrp   ;S  \        w                       Srh    Y                       /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt-
dw:Thnpyabeaotet '\wguoe> 
.       I N [) I A                \|        b            t           f            i                                                        J       -Yl
,f g+>SRI LAN2KA    1



