Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
t}. !'  -?   5/    C                     - J    Z
Repowt No. P-5544-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 67.5 MILLION
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MAY 29, 1991
This document has a restrkted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performsmce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bonk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1983, the Rwandese Franc has been
pegged to the SDR. The rate remained unchanged
at SDR 1.00 = RF 102.71 until November 10, 1990,
when the Rwandese Franc was devalued to
SDR 1.00 = RE 171.18.
MEAS ES AND EOUI_ALENTS
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AG@D ACRONYMS
BRD               Rwandese Development Bank
CND               National Council for Development (Parliament)
COPIMAR           Mining Cooperative
ELECTROGAZ        National Water and Electricity Company
LIR               Liberalized Import Regime
LRMC              Long Run Marginal Cost
NGO               Non-Government Organization
OAU               Organization of African Unity
OCIR              Promotion Agency for Export Crops
OGL               Open General License
ONAPO             Population Agency
ONATRACOM         Public Transport Company
PE                Public Enterprise
PEP               Public Expenditure Program
PIP               Public Investment Program
REDEMI            State Mining Company
RWANTEXCO         Rwanda State Textile Company
SAF               Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL               Structural Adjustment Credit
SAP               Structural Adjustment Program
SGS               Soci6t4 Gen6rale de Surveillance
(Swiss Preshipment Surveillance Company)
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
SONATUBE          State Pipe Factory
SPA               Special Program of Assistance for Africa
STIR              National Transport Company



FOR OmCIc USE ONLY
FIRST a.WM=  CR8UDIT
Tale of 2ontent
am
redlt andProjectSummary  ........                ...              -Li
to   COUWTRY POLICIE$ AND AN GROP ASSISTANC STRATEGY    
A. Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              I1
S. RecantMaoroaecoeic Perfoarance  ..........                 2
(l) Devloentsdurngl987-89   ......   .                    2
(2) De.lopmnts during1990  . . . . .      . .9            3
C. Gov'ernment Economic ?olice.e   . . .. . .  .   .4
0.  rinancing equiremete  .......... .....                     6
3.  BankGroupAseLtance Strategy  .   . . . .    . . ..         6
i?.  SAkL I PPOGRAM   . . . . . . . . * *  . . . * . . - . . .      8
A. Exchange and Trade Policy Refcrm  . . . . . . . . .        9
Exchange Rate Reglme  4944.9449494. 9                    9
Forelgn Exchange Allocation and iMport Liberalization    9
Tariff Regime   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11
S.  Incentives for Private Sector Development   . . . . .     11
Price Decontrol   .................                     11
Regulatory Framework  ........   .. ... .               12
C. Supply-Side Measures  ...... ...               *           13
Coffee Sector   # . . . * . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
Energy sector    . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . .       14
a.  Public Resource Management  9499449994999                 15
Programming and Monitoring of Public Xxpenditures       1S
Civil service Reform  .... ..........                   16
TaX Reform  . . . .      * . . . . * . . . * . . .      16
Publlc nterprise Reform  ............                   17
3. Social and lnvironmental Aspects  .                        18
III.  TUBPROPOSEDCREDIT   .....................   .                19
A. Credit History   ... .. .  . . ..  . ..  .  . . . ..    . .  19
S. Crodit Amount and Borrower  . ..     .......               19
C. Management and MonltorLng of the Program  . . . . . .      19
D. DLebursement and Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . .        19
S. MonLtorable ActLons   ..      .... ......                  20
F. Benefits and Rlks  ........            .. ..  .           21
.  RECOKEMDATIOM           . . . . . . * *. .  . . . .             23
Annex A    Key Procesalng Events.  .      .24
Annex B    Letter of Development Pollcy  ........             25
Annex C    SAL Policy Matrrx.............                     42
Annex D    Key indicators  ............. .                    45
External Financlng:  Reuirements and Sources      46
Balance of Payments, 1987-9s   . .   . . . .      47
Social Indicators of Development, 1990  . . .     48
Annex 3    Status of Bank Group OperatLons ln P.,anii  .      50
Annex F    Bank's Assistance to Date ln Rwanda                52
Annex C    Map of Rwanda........   .              .           53
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authoriation.



RWAUDRsE REPUBLIC
FIRST STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CRE2DI
CREDIX AND PROJECT SUMMARY
orrowers IRwandese Republic
Amounts           IDA  Credit  of  8DR  67.5  million  (US$90  million
equLvalent)
Cofinangina:      Switzerland (SwF 10 million); Belgium (BF 400 million);
cordinated financing is being negotiated with the
African Development Bank (AfDB), the European Community
(EDP) France, Austria, Germany, USA, and Canada. The
total external cofinancing associated with this credit
amounts to about US$140 million equivalent.
Tsnms:            Standard IDA Terms
aroara
20scriptiont      The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) will
support the first phase of the Government's economic
reform program as described in its Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) for 1991-93. The main objectives of the
Program are to stabilize the economy, improve its
competitiveness, create an incentive framework for
the efficient  allocation  of  resources,   lay  the
foundation for export-led growth and for improved living
conditions for the Rwandese people. Specifically, the
credit will support measures to:   (i) establish and
maintain a competitive exchange rate and a more liberal
foreign exchange allocation and trade regimet (ii)
liberalize domestic trade, simplify and reduce the
regulatory environment; (iii) alleviate institutional
and production constraints in key sectors (coffee,
and energy); (iv) establish a process of public
expenditure programming; (v) provide a satisfactory
social "safety net" within the framework of an agreed
public expenditure program and consistent with a sound
macroeconomic framework; and (vi) initiate policy
reforms dealing with taxation, labor legislation and
civil service.
Benefits
and Rinka:        The proposed SAL is expected to contribute to the
restoration of internal and external financial and
economic equilibria. The proposed measures to improve
economic incentives are also expected to have a positive
impact on economic growth and employment creation in the
private sector. The major risk is the Government's
ability to stay the course of adjustment in a period of
ethnic unrest. The Government has so far demonstrated
its commitment to the reform process by implementing
politically dlfficult policy measures. The second risk
is that inadequate foreign exchange availability may
slow down the pace of trade liberalization. This risk
is minimized by the strong support of the international



- Li -
community in mobillizng quLck disbursing support for the
adjustment program.
Estimated
Dicbtn"w3ents:   The proposed Credit will be disbursed in two tranches.
The first tranche of US$55 million equivalent would be
released upon effectiveness, and the second tranche
approximately eLght to ten months later.   Glven the
urgent need for balance of payment assiLtance,
retroactive financing will be allowed for up to 20
percent of the Credlt for expendlturee Incurred not
earlier than four months before credlt approval date.
NAW:              IBRD 22995



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC FOR A
FIRST STRUCURA  ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
First Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL) to the Rwandese Republic for SDR
67.5 million (US$90 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms, with a
mat'irity of 40 years, to support the Government's structural adjustment
program (SAP). The Governments of Switzerland and Belgium are cofinancing
the proposed adjustment credit in the amount of SwF 10 million (about
US$7.5 million equivalent) and SF 400 (about US$18.3 million equivalent)
respectively. In addition, a number of bilateral donors are providing
coordinated financing: Austria (about $6.2 million equivalent), Canada
(about US$10.3 million equivalent), the European Development Fund (about
US$18.8 million equivalent), France (t-out $13.2 million equivalent),
Germany (about $16.0 million equivalent), the United States (US$20
million) and the African Development Bank (about US$15.6 millior.
equivalent).
2.        A Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the period 1991-93 was
discussed by the Committee of the Whole on April 23, 1991.  The first
annual arrangement under the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) was
approved by the IMF Executive Directors on April 24, 1991. Part I of this
report provides an overview of Rwanda's development problems, prospects,
the key priorities for reform, and the Bank's assistance strategy. A
description of the Government's SAP to be supported by the SAL is
presented in Part II, while Part III describes the features of the
proposed Credit, identifies specific performance conditions attached to
it, and evaluates the potential risks of the program. The Government's
Letter of Development Policy is presented in Annex B.   Data on key
indicators and external financing requirements are provided in Annex D.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEZY
A. Backaround
3.        Rwanda is a small, largely mountainous landlocked country, with
scarce natural resources whose exploitation is hampered by the long
distances to the nearest sea ports.  It is the most densely populated
nation in Africa (290 inhabitants per square kilometer) and has one of the
world'    fastest  demographic  growth rates  (3.7 percent per  annum).
The country is populated by two main ethnic groups (Butus, the majority
tribe, and Tutsis who constitute about 15 percent of the population).
Ethnic conflicts led to a massive exile of Tutsis in 1959.   since
independence in 1962, the two groups had cohabited relatively peacefully
until the eruption of violence in late 1990.  The country is heavily
dependent on foreign assistance to finance its import requirements. To
alleviate this dependence, over the past three decades authorities
followed a development strategy centered on achieving self-sufficiency, in
food in particular. This approach was feasible as long as arable land
could be expanded.   In implementing this strategy, the Government
generally favored the rural areas in pricing policy, public expenditure
priorities,  and  in  developing  effective  rural  institutions  and



- 2 -
infrastructure. However, that strategy has recently come into question as
the population grcwth rate has begun to outstrip that of food supply,
clouding the country's long-term devalopment prospects.
4.        In the 1960. and the 1970s, Rwanda pursued prudent financial
policies and Government intervention in the economy was selective and
generally limited. These policies resulted in sustained growth in per
capita income and one of the lowest levels of external indebtedness in
Africa. However, in the 1980s, in response to external shocks and the
collapse of coffee prices (the main export), the authorit.es reaorted to
increased controls over the economy instead of adjusting to the new
environment and maintaining the competitiveness of the economy through a
flexible exchange rate policy. This led to a decade of steadily declining
per capita income.
5.        After nearly three years of intensive dialogue, the Government
requested the help of the Bank and the IMF in preparing an adjustment
program.  A PFP had been negotiated with the authorities and a Bank
mission was ready to depart to appraise the First SAL in October 1990,
when the country was invaded by Tutsi refugees from abroad. Fighting
spread briefly to Kigali, the capital city, but within few weeks the
Government was able to reassert its control over the country. Diplomatic
efforts with neighboring countries to find a political solution to the
conflict and President Habyarimana's decision to initiate a process of
national reconciliation and political reform led to a formal cease-fire,
which was signed on March 29, 1991. In parallel with the economic reform
program, the Government is pursuing a process of democratization which is
expected to lead shortly to increased political pluralism. On April 28,
1991 a new draft constitution was approved by the Mouvement National
Revolutionaire pour le Developpement, the ruling political party. The
draft constitution is currently under consideration by the National
Development Council (the Parliament) and multi-party elections are
expected to take place before the end of the year.
B. Recmnt Macroeconomic Performance
6.        In the 19709, Rwanda experienced relatively high economic
growth -- 4 percent on average a year -- under conditions of relative
financial stability and low inflation. However, following the coffee boom
of the late 1970'B, Government embarked on an ambitious public expenditure
program (PEP). When coffee prices returned to trend levels in the early
19806, and the external terms of trade declined by more than one third,
the Government adopted restrictive fiscal policies and restrained public
expenditures as measures to restore the country's competitiveness. At the
same time, though, the authorities increased the scope of Government
intervention in the economy.  Beginning in 1983, for instance, price
controls were applied more strictly to prevent prices of imported goods
from rising excessively as a result of tightened import licensing.
Similarly, transfers for payments of invisibles were restricted.
Moreover, inefficient industrial enterprises were protected through the
imposition of *temporary" import prohibitions on competing imports. By
the mid-1980s, the fiscal and financial situation had somewhat improved
but annual GDP growth had averaged only 2.5 percent during the first half
of the decade, a rate below the population growth rate.



- 3 -
1. Dee_met  dn.1970
7.        Since early 1987X  Rwanda has been faced wlth preclpltous
declines in world coffee prlces and unfavorable climatic conditions,
which have had an adverse impact on agrlcultural productLon. As a result,
primary sector output decline by about 14 percent over the perLod
1988-89.   etrictiLt?e import licensing lntroduced to respond to forelgn
exchange scarcities caused a slowdown 'n several activitLes.  Real GDP
stagnated ln 1988 Fnd declLned sharply ln 1989 (5.7 percent). Inflatlon as
measured by the official consumer price index remained low (2.7 percent
per year on average since 1986) malnly due to the overvaluation of the
national currency.
8.        Rwanda's balance of payments situation has been under pressure
since 1987, largely because of poor export performance. Despite sharply
curtaLled imports from 1987 to 1989, representing a decline of about 13
percent in real terms, the current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) remained at 10.7 percent of GDP in 1989. The deterLoration in
export performance cannot be explained solely by the fall in world coffee
prLcesg the quallty of Rwandese coffee has also declined due in part to a
producer price policy that does not recognize a prsmium for quality. Non-
coffee export performance has also been mediocre largely because of
the highly overvalued exchange rate, low productivity, and qxcessive
regulations and controls. In the past, Rwanda has generally been able to
finance its modest external deflcits through highly concessional external
assietance,  which explains the country's relatively low debt service
ratio (18 percent of exports and goods and non-factor services in 1989).
Since 1987, however, the authorities have increasingly relied on foreign
exchange reserves to finance the balance of payments deficits.   As a
result, net reserves declined steadily from the equlvalent of 5 months of
imports in 1987 and had virtually disappeared by end-1990 desplte the
introduction of tighter import restrictions.
9.        Notwithstanding the Government's efforts to contain the growth
of public expendLture, the fiscal deficit remains at an uneustainable
level. Since 1980, the Government has controlled the wage bill by
limiting civil service wage increases to the annual 3 percent merit
increase.  In addition, there hare been cuts in the allocation for goods
and services as well as for investment expenditures. However, in view of
the overvaluation of the exchange rate and the declining world prices for
coffee, the burden on government finances of maintaining an artificially
high producer price for coffee had become increasingly difficult to
sustain: during 1987-89, average annual transfers to coffee producers
accounted for 1.3 percent of GDP or 9.6 percent of total current public
outlays.   On the revenue sLde, the tax base is narrow, with strong
reliance on trade and a few sales taxes.   For most taxes, there are
problems of administration and collection. Although the fiscal deficit as
a percentage of GDP declined from the high level of 10.4 percent recorded
in 1987, it was stlll 7.3 percent in 1989.  Financlng of this deficit
required recourse to local borrowing. The domestic debt burden, which
grew from 12 percent of GDP in 1987 to 17 percent ln 1989, is becomlng an
lncreasingly important drain on public resources.
2. Develonmente durina 1990
10.       The economic and financlal situatLon deteriorated further in
1990, especially during the last quarter when the country faced the
invasion from abroad. Despite the recovery of agrLcultural production,



- 4 -
mainly coffee, the hostilLtLes serLously affected the economy, and ODP La
estimated to have d.elined by 2 percent.  The moat severely affected
sectors were transportation, trade and tourLsm. On the fLocal front, tho
outbreak in hostilltles neceseLtated a substantial Lncrease in securLty-
related outlays. Also, the transfers to coffee producero almost doubled,
despite the reduction of the producer prlee for coffee from RP 125/kg to
RF 100/kg at the beginnLng of the 1990/91 season. These factors led to an
Lncrease in current expendLture by 30 percent. Capital outlays fell by 11
percent as implementation of projects alowed down slgnifiLantly because of
the hostilLtLes. On the revenue oide, tax revenue fell by 11 percent due
to the decline in economic activlty and lower imports. For these reasons,
the fiscal deflict rose to 11.7 percent of GDP and was largely financed by
accumulatLng domestLi arrears and heavy recourse to the domestic bankLng
system. Domestic debt thus ln¢reased to 20.3 percent of GDP in 1990.
11.       In the external sector, the volume of coffee exports rose by
60 percent ln 1990 owing to a good coffee crop and a reductlon ln stocks.
However, the value of coffee exports rose by only 18 percent, sinca coffee
prices declined by 26 percent. As other exports declLned due primarlly to
the overvalued exchange rate, total exports remained virtually unchanged
from the previous year. Imports of merchandies fell by 8 percent, with
military imports rising and others declining due to shortages in foreign
exchange and a decline in project-related imports. The unstable security
situation also affected receipts from tourism.  Overall, the current
account deficit remained around 10.5 percent of GDP.  It was largely
financed by a further drawing on net foreign exchange reserves which were
completely depleted by end-1990. The accumulation of external arrears
amounted to about $7 mLilLon and the outstanding external debt rose to the
equivalent of 28.8 percent of GNP, while the debt service ratio declined
to 17.7 percent because of the cancellation of the debt owed to France.
C. Government Egonomic Pollcles
12.       To address these serious economie and financial problems,
the Government adopted an econonic reform program described in the PFP for
1991-93 and discussed with the Executive Directors in a Committee of the
Whole session on April 23, 1991. The basic macroeconomic objectives of
the program are to accelerate the return to a viable external and domestic
financial position, and to achieve sustainable economic growth in the
context of low inflation. The new strategy represents a clear break from
the policies of the eighties because lt stresses reliance on market forces
and the private sector, as well as a stronger export-orientation. The key
targets of the program are to restore economic growth to about 4 percent
and return to an annual inflation rate of 5 percent by 1993, whle
reaching a sustainable budgetary and balance of payments sltuation.
13.       Agriculture, which accounts for roughly 40 percent of GDP, will
continue to be the mainstay of the economy and is expected to grow at
3.7 percent p.a. for the period 1992-1995. Although the small domestic
market offers limited prospects for import substitution in lndustry, there
are good prospects for growth in light manufacturing. Industrial sector
growth (including mining) is expected to average 4.2 percent p.a. between
1992 and 1995. Growth in trade and tourism is projected at 4 percent p.a.
during the same poriod.
14.       To achieve these objectives, the program aLms ats (i) fostering
an environment conducive to promoting private sector activity and
international competitiveness; (ii) impr4 ing and rationalLzing public



- 5 -
resource managements (iii) developing the humAn resource base; and (iv)
improving the management of natural resources.   To improve Rwanda's
international competitiveness, the Government has undertaken an important
exchange rate adjustment in November 1990 (see vara. 1?) and has decided
to adjust the level of the exchange rate subsequently, as neededg it will
also liberalize foreign exchange allocation and the trade regime. The
exchange rate adjustment should improve the competitiveness of exports.
For example, mining exports (tin, wolfram), which had accounted for 10-15
percent of export earnings up to 1985 and had practically disappeared
since then due to the overvaluation of the exchange rate, are expected to
regain their competitiveness. To promote private sector involvement in
the economy, the Government has decided to eliminate price controls and
encourage enterprise creation by setting up transparent, clear and simple
administrative procedures for enterprise creation by eliminating the
discretionary power of public offlcials. In the agricultural sector, the
key objectives are to increase yields, diversify production and exports,
and achieve food security in an environmentally sustainable way. With
regard to public sector management, the intention is to reduce the public
sector deficit, strengthen tax administration and review the tax system to
improve production incentives. On the expenditure side, the Government's
aim is to improve programming and control of public expenditures, ensure
a social "safety net" to protect the most vulne  vie groups from the
financial austerity measures, and implement a comprehensive reform of the
public enterprise sector which has already started with IDA assistance.
15.       Under the PFP scenario, gross investment would be maintained at
about 16 percent of GDP with the share of private investment increasing
slowly to 9.2 percent in 1995 in response to improvements in the policy
environment.  Domestic savings are expected to increase and reach 8
percent of GDP in 199S. The Government's economic reform program will be
accompanied by prudent fiscal and financial policies. The objective is a
sustainable overall fiscal position made possible by reducing expenditures
(especially, eliminating coffee subsidies) and increasing Government
revenues. The fiscal deficit (excluding grants) is expected to be reduced
gradually from 11.7 percent of GDP in 1990 to S.2 percent by 1993. The
measures being adopted under the adjustment program will not result in an
immediate improvement in the trade balance, as imports will have to
increase over the program period to restore growth, while export promotion
measures will take time to yield results. Nevertheless, the ratio of
exports to imports of goods and services is projected to increase from
about 42 percent in 1990 to about 47 percent in 1995. The current account
deficit (excluding transfers) is expected to increase to 15.2 percent of
GDP in 1991 and to decline gradually thereafter to reach 11.4 percent of
GDP in 1993 and 9.8 percent in 199S. Rwanda has a relatively low external
debt (outstanding debt was 28.8 percent of GDP in 1990) and the Government
intends to pursue a prudent external debt management policy by relying
exclusively on concessional loans.
16.       The benefits of improved overall economic management will be
short-lived if major progress is not achieved in dealing with long-term
structural  issues.    Of utmost  importance  in this  respect  is the
implementation of population and environmental policies already in place.
Indeed, the Government has adopted a National Population Policy and an
action program emphasizing motivational campaigns and providing for a
greater availability and coverage of family planning services, as well as
measures to reduce infant mortality. The ultimate goal of this policy is
to reduce population growth from 3.7 percent to 2.7 percent by the year
2000. The Government has also prepared an Environmental Action Plan



- 6 -
(reforestation,  industrial  locatione  effluence  control,  and  soil
preservation) as the necessary framework for maintaining and improving
soil fertility, while ensuring that environmental guidelines are adhered
to ln all development projects.
17.       Despite the difficult political situation, the authorLties began
implementing some of the key policy reforms since late 1990. The most
important measures taken ares (i) a devaluation of the Rwandese franc by
40 percent in foreign currency terms vie-&-vie the SDR (66.7 percent in
local currency) to improve the country's competitiveness; (ii) increases
in the minimum interest rate for one-year deposits to 12 percent, and the
maximum lend.4!: rate to 19 percent, while at the soa   time freeing all
other interest rates on deposits and introducing a unified rediscount rate
of 14 percent; (iUi) increases in petroleum prices by 79 percent on
average to pass through the full impact of the devaluation (the new price
of gasoline is equivalent to US$3.80 per gallon); (iv) elimination of
export taxes, except for coffee; (v) raising the minimum import duty to 10
percent; and (vi) increases in the sales tax from 6 to 10 percent for most
goods, from 2 to 5 percent for essential commodities, and from 1 to
10 percent for services and entertainment.
D. Financina Requirements
18.       The  attainment  of the Government'e growth and  investment
objectives will depend not only or, the appropriateness of its economic and
financial policies but also on the availability of timely and adequate
external financial assistance. Total external capital requirements for
1991-93 (including grants) are estimated to average US$332 million per
annum. Those estimates assume that: (i) net external reserves will be
restored to the equivalent of about three months of imports by 1993; and
(Ui) the political and military situation will gradually return to normal
during 1991 and that military outlays will be reduced, beginning in 1992
(as already noted, a cease fire was agreed on March 29, 1991). Grants are
expected to average US$130 million a year, which is consistent with past
trends. Gross inflows from the existing loans and credits in the pipeline
are estimated to average US$38 million a year, of which about US$14
million is expected to come from IDA project financing. After taking into
account net direct investment, which is projected to average US$9 million
annually, expected disbursement from new projects (US$:i4 million per
annum), additional resources from IDA credits for structural and sector
adjustment (US$45 million on average per annum), and the IMF's SAP (US$15
million on average per annum), the total financing gap would amount to
US$110 million for 1991, US$38 million for 1992 and US$36 million for
1993. At a special meeting called by the Bank and held on March 20, 1991
in Paris, donors confirmed that the gap for 1991 would be financed in the
form of highly concessional balance of payments assistance (see par&. 25).
S. Bank Groug Assistance Strateoq
19.       The Bank Group's current assi.tance strategy in Rwanda was
discussed by the Executive Directors in December l1i90. The Bank's main
objective in Rwanda is to get the country back on the path to sustained
growth with equity. The immediate priority is to support a comprehensive
adjustment program focussing on a stabilization of the economy, better
resource management and the creation of an enabling environment for
private initiative and for export growth and diversification. The long-
term strategy is to further increase per capita income by reducing
population expansion, diversifying the economy's sources of growth,



improving income distribution and protecting the environment. The full
range of instruments, including policy dialogue, lending, economic and
sector work and aid coordination, will be used to implement this strategy.
Recent government reforms open the way to a lending program which will
blend qulck disbursiag adjustment operations with Lnvestment projects.
20.       The current program consiste of two to three operations a year,
including a serles of structural and sector adjustment operations 1J.
The proposed SAL describod ln thie report is fully consistent with the
country strategy and wlll support the setting in place of an overall
macroeconomic policy framework which will be compleented by high priority
projects as well as sector operations supporting specific pollcy measures
and investments. These operations would develop the lnfrastructure needed
to help promote private sector initiative as well as address long-term
development  issues  in  education,  population  and  health.    Future
operatlons will seek to promote private sector development by
consolidatLng the measures under the proposed SAL and ensuring the
efficient operation of the flnanclal sector, and to intensify agricultural
production to improve food security, and rehabilitate the coffee sector.
Sector work recently completed (e.g., an Agricultural Sector Reviow, and
a Financial Sector Study) provide the analytical underpinnings for future
sector operations. In addition, agreement has already been reached on a
substantial program of reforms to liberalize the transport sector
within the framework of the Transport Sector Credit (Cr. 2136-RW approved
in May 1990).
21.       In the area of capacity building, the intention is to focus
primarily on the technical assietance and training needs of the macro and
sectoral reform programs by:   (i) reorienting the exiating technical
assistance (TA) projects in the Minist-ies of Planning and Financel and
(ii) introducing specific TA components in future projects in agriculture
and other sectors.   The Bank will also endeavor to improve project
Lmplementation by devotlng more resources to project supervlison. Special
emphasis ,Ill be put on improving procurement procedures to accelerate
disbursements.
22.       To address long-term development issues, Bank lending in the
social sectors would increase.   An education sector operation, which
focusses on improvlng the quality and coverage of primary education in
support of the Government's recent decision to reduce the primary cycle
from eight to six year", was approved by the Executive Directors in April
1991. A population project will aosLst the Government in implementing its
population policy objectives. A social action project to address poverty
alleviation is also under preparation.   Women's development will be
supported through the education and health projects. The agricultural
sector project will also have a direct positive impact on women, since
they constitute 60 percent of agricultural labor.
23.       Economlc growth in Rwanda will not be sustainable unless
measures are taken to protect the fragile and deteriorating envLoinment.
The Bank has helped the Government in formulating a comprehensive
environmental action program. Bank assistance in this area will continue,
especially in order to strengthen government Lnstitutions so that all
projects in Rwanda adhere to the approved envlronmental guidelines. The
A descrLptLon of the Bank's assistance to date is presented ln
Annex F.



proposed agricultural sector credit will include land tenure reform aimed
at better management of increasingly scarce resources.
24.       Economic and Sector Work (ESWI Proaram.  The Bank's E8W will
support the adjustment program and will, in turn, be shaped by it. Over
the past few years, major studies such as a Country Economic Memorandum
(CEM) (Report No. 6191-RW) and the Firat Public Expenditure Review (PER)
(Report No. 7717-RW) have helped to document the caae for adjustment and
to identify the range of reforms necessary in crucial areas such as the
exchange rate, regulatory framework, parastatals, and public resource
management. Ongoing and planned ESW focuses on deepening and extending
the measures expected to be introduced in the first phase of adjustment
and on preparing specific reform proposals in the areas already
identified. These are the objectives of the Financial Sector Review and
of a planned study of Labor Legislation aimed at reducing labor market
rigidities.   The Agricultural Strategy Review aims at reversing the
overall economic stagnation by diversifying agricultural production,
making it more export oriented. Export diversification and growth are
also the focus of a planned regiona& study.   A program of Public
Expenditure Reviews aims to improve resource mobilization and allocation
with special attention to the needs of the social sectors as well as
maintenance of vital infrastructure.  A planned study of Secondary and
Higher Education would help to develop a policy framework for improving
quality and efficiency and contribute to capacity building.   work on
Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) together with supervision missions of
prospective adjustment operations, will monitor the progress of adjustment
with a view to identifying any needed changes in policies, lending (by the
Bank and other donors), and the ESW program itself.
25.       Aid--Coordination and Relations with the IMF. Rwanda is one of
the few African countries that had not made use of the IMF resources in
the past 20 years. On April 24, 1991, however, the Executive Directors of
the IMF approved a first annual arrangement under the Structural
Adjustment Facility (about US$12 million). The policy agenda supported by
the proposed operation has been developed in close cooperation with the
INF in the context of the preparation of the PFP. As the attached matrix
indicates, the Bank would rely on the IMF for the monitoring of actions
dealing with the exchange rate and fiscal and monetary policies. The
proposed operation has been an important vehicle for mobilizing quick-
disbursing assistance to Rwanda. The Bank organized a special donors'
meeting in March which was successful in confirming $110 million in
disbursement of highly concessional balance of payments assistance
(excluding the SAL and the IMF SAF) to close the financing gap of the
adjustment program in 1991.   In April 1991, donors endorsed Rwanda's
eligibility under the Special program for Africa (SPA £I). The UNDP is
also planning to organize a round table meeting in late 1991 and the Bank
will participate in its preparation in close collaboration with the UNDP.
PART II - The SAL I PROGRAM
26.       By 1990, the incentive structure of the Rwandese economy had
become highly distorted. In the 19809, the negative effect of price and
foreign exchange controls were compounded by measures to protect domestic
industry from imports made cheaper by the overvaluation of the exchange
rate.   This policy led to losses in economic competitiveness,  the



development of inefficient economic activity, and the emergence of
shortages of raw materials and spare parts, which, in turn, resulted in
declining output. In order to reverse this trend, there was an urgent
need for reforms to foster an enabling environment to encourage the trade
sector and generally improve Rwanda's international competitiveness,
particularly with respect to the activities producing for export. The
reforms supported by SAL I aim at dealing with these issues and are an
integral part of the Government'e overall reform program outlined in the
PFP.  The proposed operation would support measures to:  establish a
competitive exchange rate and a liberal foreign exchange allocation and
foreign trade regimel rationalize import tariffs; liberalize domestic
trade and streamline the regulatory environment; remove production
constraints in the coffee and energy sectors; improve public resource
management, including the introduction of public expenditure programming
and the provision of a social "safety net" consistent with a sound
macroeconomic framework; and initiate reforms in the areas of taxation,
labor legislation and civil service, which would be completed under
subsequent adjustment operations. More specifics are provided below.
A. Exchance and Trade Policy Reform
Exchanae Rate Rec_me
27.       aackaroun!d. Between 1980-1990, the real effective exchange rate
of the Rwandese franc had appreciated _via-A-_J the currencies of its
major trading partners by about 30 percent in foreign currency terms.
This reduced the profitability of Rwanda's exports and also led to the
imposition of strict exchange controls and quantitative barriers to
imports in an attempt to protect shrinking foreign exchange reserves.
over the last three years, Rwanda had to draw down about US$135 million of
its foreign exchange reserves (equivalent to about four and a half months
of current imports) to finance the external deficit.
28.       SAL-SuAoorted Reform Prooram.  The Government policy is to keep
the exchange rate under regular review and to adjust the rate as necessary
in the context of a tighter stance of financial policies, and in the light
of the progress made toward meeting the targets for the balance of
payments and foreign exchange reserves, as well as the profitability of
the export sector, the number and amount of unsatisfied requests for
foreign exchange, and the progress made with respect to the liberalization
of the trade and exchange system. As noted earlier and as "upfront"
actions for SAL I, on November 10, 1990, the Government devalued the
Rwandeee franc by 40 percent in foreign currency terms yj&-A-zL, the SDR
(66.7 percent in local currency). The IMF will monitor the exchange rate
developments under the SAP program.
Imnort Liberalization and Foreian Exchange Allocation
29.       BackEound.  All imports require a license from the Central
Bank. Until the mid 1980s, the country had a relatively comfortable level
of foreign exchange reserves and import licenses were routinely granted.
With foreign exchange reserves dwindling, the Government introduced a
system of administrative import allocations and established a policy of
protecting the existing inefficient industry which encouraged further
investments in economically non-viable activities. Through this system,
the Ministry of Commerce and Consumption set import targets for all
imported products with a view to controlling their quality and price, as
well as reducing or eliminating imports of "unnecessary" items. Import



- 10 -
licenses for goods that would compete with local products were only issued
to the extent that supply from domestic sources was deemed insufficient.
The imports of 16 products competing with domestic production (blankets,
plastic products, radios, small agricultural implements, cement, matches,
and some construction materials) were prohibited. Industrial inputs and
essential goods were given priority; consumer goods and luxuries were
discouraged.   Since mid-1990, only petroleum products and a few other
essential imports have received import authorizations.
30.       SAL-Sugorted Reform Program. The objective is to establish a
non-discriminatory foreign exchange allocation regime through an Open
General  License  (OGL)  system  administered  by  commercial  banks.
Specifically, the proposed SAL would support the following measures:
(i)  Elimination of all import prohibitions (except for item such as
narcotics and armaments, which are normally prohibited for
health or security reasons) and abolition of the current system
of import programming, with the temporary exception of a limited
list of commodities of wprirvry necessity', which represent
about 30 percent of the value of imports (see iii below). The
Government has announced publicly that this action will be
effective on June 1, 1991.   Whenever  justified and after
consultation with Bank staff, temporary import surcharges would
be applied to give domestic industries time to adapt to the new
economic environment. However, all such surcharges would be
eliminated at the latest by end 1993.
(ii)  Establishment of a comprehensive OGL system before June 1992
(excluding petroleum products because of their strategic
importance and the fact that they are only imported by a small
number of importers). The OGL system will be funded by foreign
exchange earnings, as well as by the proceeds of the SAY and the
proposed Credit. Other donors will also utilize this system in
their balance of payments assistance to Rwanda. Establishment
of an 0OL system based on a market-clearing exchange rate would
be a condition of second tranche release. The IMF would monitor
any adjustment in the exchange rate that may be necessary before
the OGL is established.
(iii)  During a transition period up to the establishment of the OGL,
the discretionary elements in allocating foreign exchange for
import will be progressively eliminated. On Xay 15, 1991, the
Government announced the establishment of a "liberalized import
regime" (LIR), which will become effective on June 24, 1991
(with the first allocation of foreign exchange of US$20 million)
for about 70 percent of imports (in value terms). Under the
LIR, all economic agents are eligible to submit monthly requests
to the Central Bank for foreign exchange and have to pay a non-
refundable fee of 5 percent on the value in local currency of
licenses requested. Since the license fee paid by importers on
the total amount of foreign exchange requested is non-
refundable, the effective cost of foreign exchange in local
currency is higher than the nominal rate, and this will
discourage excessive foreign exchange requests. If the requests
exceed foreign exchange availability for a given month, the
allocation for each applicant is reduced proportionately (and
nondiscriminately) by a factor equal to the relationship between
the overall availability of foreign exchange and the total



- 11 -
amount reuested. In the lnitial phase of the LIR operations,
a llmited Ilst of imported goods of "primary neesslty'
(consisting of petroleum products, powder mllk, malt, sugar,
salt, cooklag oll, pharmacoutical products, fertilizer,
postlildes, and gypsum) will remaLn subject to import
programing ln order to ensure an unLnterrupted supply of those
goods on the domestLc market, before adequate balance of
payments flnancing is available. The Government will reduce the
list to petroleum products only, when programmed balance of
payments support becomes effectLvely available followlng the
release of the first tranche of the SAL.
T"Lf UL
31.         Backaround.  All imports were subject to tariffs, taxes or
levLes which, together, ranged from zero percent to 250 percent of the cif
value. Soma import taxes were speciflc (usually based on weLght) wlth
very high ad  alorem equivalent.  The rates were usually low for raw
materials and capital goods; medium for intermediate imports; and high for
non-essential consumer goods and products competing with local manufac-
turers.    In  fact,  local  lndustry  was  protected  by  quantitative
restrictions or prohLbitions. Tariffs were used only when imports were
permitted. With the establishment of the LIR, tarlffs will become the
only way of setting protection.
32.       SAL-Sumnorted Reform Prooram.   To correct the distortions
created by the structure of tariff protection, in addition to the
establishment of a LIR and the removal of import prohibitions, agreement
was reached on a program of tariff rationalization. This includes moving
toward a more uniform tariff structure with fewer tariff categories within
a three-year period. As part of the first phase of the tariff reform, the
Government has taken the following measuress (l) converting, since
November 14, 1990, all tariff rates to Ad valr m, with the exception of
petroleum products, beverages and cigarettes (to maintaLn the tax revenue
at its current level); and (ii) introducing a minimum rate of 10 percent
for all products on December 14, 1990. In addition, in June 1991, the
Government willt  lower the maximum tariff rate to 100 percent, and
reduce the number of tariff rates to five. In cases such as luxury goods,
where it is considered desirable to limit consumption (particularly during
the early stage of the import liberalization process), excise taxes may be
applied, but equally to imported goods and domestically produced goods--so
as not to encourage the inefficient domestic production of these goods.
As a gondition of second tranche release, the Government would implement
the second phase of the tariff reform which would significantly lower the
maximm tarlff (to about 80 percent) starting with the 1992 budget. The
implementatlon of the third phase of the tariff reform (1993) would be
monitored under a subsequent adjustment operation. The Government would
undertake a revenue impact study before agreeing wlth the Assoclation on
the actual rates to be implemented in 1992 and 1993.
B. Inscentives for Private Sector Development
Price Decontrol
33.       Bagkoround.  Until February 1991, the Government administered
virtually all domestic prices through controlled prices, floor prLces, and
controlled  profit  margins.    However,  this  system  amplified  the
inefficiency of Rwanda's industrial  sector.   Prices were fixed by



- 12 -
mLaLsterLal order for a group of commodities (beer, goft drinkg,
clgarettes, petroleum products) and some services (medLcal fees,
transport). Industrial and import priee were set on a "cost-plus* basis,
with 15 percent margin on manufacturing and wholesale and 20 percent on
retail trade.  The Government a objective was to prevent producers and
importers from making excessLve proflts and to protect consumers from the
impact of increasing scarcitLes.
34.       Offioial  floor  prices  of  agricultural  products  were,  in
princLple, set by the Government. They were not effectively controlled,
as the marketing of agricultural products ia carried out by small traders.
The agro-industrLes were, however, under the obligation to respect the
floor prices, which were generally above border prices. This pollcy has
hurt agro-industries ustng local raw materials (e.g., rice paddy, maize,
wheat, etc.), and encouraged both smuggling of competing products and the
shift to activities using imported inputs.
35.       SAL-Sunorted Reform Proaram. The objective is to progressively
llberalize the price system and to elimlnate all price controls. However,
in exceptional cases where the sLze of the market is too small or where
there are monopolies, temporary price controls would remain. Fixed prices
were elimlnated in February 1991 with the exception of retail prices for
petroleum products (because of their strateglc importance), minimum
producer prlces for coffee, tea, wheat, rice, sugarcane, pyrethrum, as
well as pharmaceutical products and publlc health service consultation
rates (because of the socLal implicatLons). However, in the case of the
latter goods and services the full impact of the devaluatlon wlll be
passed through. Before the full lmplementatlon of import liberallzatlon,
de factg monopolies (such as beer) wlll remaln subject to temporary price
controls. In February 1991, the Government also elimlnated the controls
on profLt margine (except ln the case of monopolies). In the case of
natural monopolies (such as electriclty, water, telephone companles) the
Bank has agreed with the Government on the principles of prLcLng in line
with sound financLal performance and effLcLency criteria.
aeoulatgry Framework
36.       Backgrond.  Until May 1991, to start an enterprLse ln Rwanda,
an entrepreneur had to firat obtaln authorLzatLon from the Mlnistry of
Commerce. The Ministry usually limlted the entry of new flrms, a declsion
often rationalized by Lnvoking the small sLze of the domestic market.
Once the authorization was granted, the procedures for regLstrirtion and
starting of the enterprLse (involving several administrative departments)
could take between six months to a year. The lnvestor still had to obtain
the permission of the Mlnistry of Labor to hire or flre anyone, national
or expatriate.   The constraints imposed by the regulatory frameworks
stLfled local competition; led to lost Lavestment opportunLties; and
resulted in increased Lnvestment costs.
37.       SAL-SuoPorted Reform Program. The objective is to progressively
remove regulatory constralnts. As an immedlate step, the discretionary
power of the Ministry of Commerce ln approvLng the establishment of
prlvate buoLnesses was delegated to the local adminlstrative authorities
through a mLnisterial decree.   Moreover,  as a conditioL.. of credlt
affectLL nmus, the Government will abolish all requlrements for prlor
approval of creation of private business establishments. A new lnvestment
code designed to encourage private investment will be Lntroduced before



- 13 -
June 30, 1991. Also, the Government would formulate by January 1992 an
action plan satisfactory to the Association, for the elimination of other
unnecessary impediments to private sector operations   This action plan
would focus particularly on revLsing the legal framework ln which
busLnesses operate and simplifyLng adminLstrative procedures related to
enterprise creation. The objective ls tot (L) rationalize the process
lnto a sangle step operationt and (ii) shorten the waiting period for
approval and mLnimLze dLcretlon. The implementation of thL action plan
would be monltored under a subsequent adjustment operatlon.
38.       Labor mobllity was constrained by the need to prove ones
resLdence in a 'commune" (the basLc administrative jurisdLction) in order
to be legally employed there. The Government has already abollshed thls
requirement. In addition, enterprises were requlred to hire labor only
from a 1Lst established by the Minletry of Labor. A labor market study
financed by IDA is scheduled to start ln June 1991 to prepare specific
reform proposals regarding the revlsion of the labor code wlth a vlow to
promoting employment creatlon and greater labor mobilLty. On the basli of
the study's recommendations, the Government will prepare an actlon plan
which, among others, will include measures to Lncrease enterprises'
ability to hlre and dismiss employees.   Adoption of an action plan
satisfactory to the Association and abolition of the obligation for
enterprises to hlre exclusively from the list prepared by the Ministry of
Labor would be a conditLon of second tranche release. The implementation
of the action plan will be monitored under subsequent adjustment
operations.
C. Sugnly-SLde Meaaures
Coffee Sector
39.       Backaround. In recent years, the quality of Rwandese coffee has
deteriorated dramatically owing to declining soil fertility, inadequate
extension services, the erosion of the price competitiveness of coffee
with respect to other crops, and a producer price policy that does not
diecriminate for quality. These developments have left the country ill-
prepared to deal with the changing consumption patterns abroad, which are
evolvlng in favor of high quality coffee. Although the prLvate sector is
active in coffee marketlng, the Government has been following an
increasingly "interventionist" approach in the sector. Producer prices
were fixed at a level implying a substantial net subsidy to the farmers
through the Coffee Stabilization Fund after allowing for the export tax on
coffee. In early 1990, the Government reduced the producer prices as a
means of reducing budgetary transfers in the absence of an adjustment in
the exchange rate. However, the price has again been raiscd for the 1991
season. In addition, OCIR-Cafe (the coffee parastatal) has increased its
interventlon by: (i) setting the price at which other companies can export
coffeel (ii) increaeing its share of total coffee exports by forcing other
exporters to sell to OCIR part of their milled coffee; ($ii) interfering
with the timing of the sales; and, (iv) reducing competition by
drastically cutting the number of traders who are authorized to buy coffee
from producers.
40.       SAL-Sumnorted Reform Prooram.   The reform objective in the
sector is to improve the efficiency of the industry and to open it up to
a wider involvement of the private sector.  The coffee sector reform
program would be implemented in two phases. In the first phase, with the
large devaluation, the transfers have been substantially reduced. However,



- 14 -
with world coffee prices below US$.80/per pound, the coffee sector still
reqLres a small transfer. The Government is committed to eliminating
transfers to the coffee sector and will review the situation towards mid-
1991, in the light of coffee export prices developments and, if needed,
will take the necessary action. The Government has removed since April
1991 existing barriers to entry into coffee gathering, processLng and
exporting. It has also agreed to put into place by April 1992, an export
reference pricing system to provide a mechanism for securing the
repatriation of export earnings and for tax assessment. The ellmination
of the subsidy to the Coffee Stabilization Fund and the introduction of
the pricing system reform would be conditions of second tranche srlease.
in the second phase,  the Government will preparo an action plan by
December 1991 based on the recommendations of the Coffee Sector Study
launched in June 1990.   This action plan will address the following
issues:   (i) conversion of the current fixed producer prices into an
indicative floor price system; (Li) establishment of a variable rate
export tax system (where tax rates would fluctuate with world coffee
prices)l (iii) liberalization of intermediary prices (transport,
insurance, traders, etc.*) and (lv) redefinition of the role of OCIR-Caf6,
with the objective of transforming it to a regulatory authority. In the
third phase, a proposed agricultural sector operation would monitor the
full implementation of this action plan and would support further actions
to deepen the reforms initiated under the proposed SAL.
Knerav Sector
41.       Backaround. Approximately 80 percent of commercial energy used
in Rwanda (petroleum and electricity) is imported, accounting for an
average of 18 percent of merchandise import. during the period 1983-87.
Domestic petroleum product prices during the 1980's remained well above
international prices.  Electricity rates, on the other hand, remained
unchanged from 1981 until 1988, when they were reduced by 14 percent.
Residential rates now represent 33 percent of estimated long-run marginal
cost (LRMC), while industrial rates average about 40 percent of the LR1C.
As a consequence, the power network is poorly maintained and operated by
a Government-owned utility, ELWCTROGZ,, characterized by excessive
Government intervention, weak management and a deteriorating financial
situation. The Government has recognized the need to address ELECTROGAZS
problems and has included the reform of BLEcTROGAZ in the ongoing IDA-
supported Public Enterprise Reform Project.
42.       SAL-Suctorted  Reform  Procram.    As  up-front  action,  the
Government has increased petroleum derivative price. by 79 percent
(including specific taxes). This increase provides a powerful incentive
for energy conservation and helps alleviate the Government'e fiscal
difficulties. with regard to electricity pricing, the objectives are to
align electricity rates with their respective LRMC and to ensure the
financial soundness of ELECTROGAZ. An in-depth analysis of ELICTROGAZS
financial situation will be undertaken as part of the ongoing Public
Enterprise Reform Project. As an interim step, the Government announced
in April 1991, an increase of electricity rates by 50 percent effective
June 1, 1991.   As a condition of second tranche release,  financial
performance objectives for Blectrogaz will be defined and a calendar of
rate increases in line with these objectives will be agreed upon. The
Government has also begun preparation of a least-cost medium-term Power
Master Plan including revised LRMC estimates. Following completion of the
Power Master Plan by the end of 1992, a new tariff structure (consistent



- 15 -
with LRMC pricing) will be elaborated and adopted in the context of a
proposed Energy Sector Operation.
D. Public Resource Management
43.       The recent deterioration in the country's financial situation
calls for a tightening of fiscal policy. The objective set in the PFP is
to reduce the overall fiscal deficit (excluding grants) from 11.7 percent
of GVP in 1990 to 5.2 percent in 1993.  This calls for a two-pronged
approach. On the revenue side, the government has already taken a number
of measures to raise money such as the introduction of a minimum 10
percent tariff on all imports (see para. 17), the increase in the tax on
petroleum products and in sales taxes (see para. 17), and the introduction
of an exceptional emergency "solidarity tax" on wages and salaries
designed to finance the war effort. On the expenditure side, the measures
include the reduction of the subsidy to the coffee sector, the reduction
of the subsidy to Electrogaz (see par. 42) and a freeze on the wages and
salaries. As a complement to -he financial stabilization policies to be
monitored under the IMF's SAP, the reform objective under the proposed
operation would be to strengthen the Government's administrative services
(the Ministries of Finance and Planning in particular) with a view to
better programming and monitoring of public expenditures, while setting
the stage for comprehensive civil service and tax reforms. In addition,
under an IDA supported project, the Government has already committed
itself to a comprehensive reform of the Public Enterprise sector.
Proarammino and Monitorino of Public Expenditures
44.       Backaroun.  In the past, the usefulness of the budget as an
instrument of economic policy on Rwanda was limited, due to its partial
coverage and the lack of a clear economic classification of public
expenditure. The Government has decided to include projects financed by
external loans and grants in the development budget, but this has not been
done in a consistent fashion and the methodology has not been
satisfactory; public investment programming has not been carried out
within a multi-year framework, and government contributions to multi-year
projects have had to be reconfirmed each year. Finally, there were no
clear guidelines concerning project selection criteria. This resulted in
the selection of some economically non-viable projects.   There is
therefore a need to control public expenditure by developing a coherent
system of programming and monitoring.
45.       SAL-SuDoorted Reform Prooram.  As a first step, in April 1991,
agreement with the Dank was reached on a revised 1991 budget, including
current and capital expenditures, and on the size and the composition of
the 1991-93 PIP . In reviewing the 1991 budget, particular attention
was given to ensuring adequate allocation for maintenance expenditures and
for a "safety net" of social expenditure (e.g., a 10 percent increase in
the allocation for essential medicines).
46.       As a second step, starting in October 1991, the Government will
introduce a system of three-year rolling PIP with a view to integrating
the selection of projects into clearly defined sectoral objectives and a
comprehensive macroeconomic framework. The Government will prepare its
annual investment budget in the context of the three-year rolling PIP,
comprising both domestically and foreign financed investment expenditures.
This document, after consultation with the World Dank, will be distributed
to all multilateral and bilateral aid agencies and will serve as a basis



- 16 -
for the preparation of the budget.   The authority of the Ministry of
Planning to approve all projects to be included in the PIP has been
reinforced.  In case of conflict with the technical ministry regarding a
particular project, the interministerial committee at the ministerial
level will arbitrate.
47.       The Government has agreed on project selection criteria which
include: (i) economic viability (rate of return not less than 10 percent
for those projects for which a rate of return can be calculated), (ii)
consistency with sound sectoral and macroeconomic objectives; (iii) least-
cost solution in the case of social sectors; and (iv) sustainability
(feasibility of meeting local financing requirements and recurrent cost
implications). The Government is preparing a manual for project selection
which will be distributed in December 1991 to all ministries and to
bilateral and multilateral donors interested in financing projects in
Rwanda.
48.       The attainment of the public expenditure management objectives
would require institutional strengthening in project evaluation,
expenditure programming, budget preparation and execution, as well as
accounting and reporting. A medium-term work program has been established
focusing on:   (i) improving the project evaluation capacity in the
Ministry of Planning; and (ii) strengthening the "Direction G6nerale des
Investissements" in the same Ministry to enable it to follow the execution
by project on a semi-annual basis.
49.       The Government has also agreed to establish a three-year public
expenditure program (PEP) by sector to assure consistency between the
strategy and the budgetary allocation (current and capital expenditures)
for each sector. It will prepare, by end 1991, PEPs for the health,
education, agriculture, civil works and transport sectors which will serve
as an input to the 1992 budget.   In the final phase, the public
expenditure programming system would be extended to all sectors starting
with the 1993 budget, and its implementation would be monitored under
subsequent  adjustment  operations.    Technical  assistance  for  the
preparation of these activities would be supported under the ongoing TA
Credits.
50.       Agreement with the Bank on the 1992-94 PIP and the 1992 budget
would be a condition of second tranche release. A round table organized
by the UNDP will be held once the 1992-94 PIP review has been completed.
Civil Service Reform
51.       The size of the civil service is not excessive in Rwanda, but
the civil service needs to be reformed (i.e remuneration policy more
responsive to merit, more rational deployment among ministries...). The
Government has already launched a comprehensive civil service study with
UNDP assistance. The Government has agreed to prepare by January 1992, an
action plan for the implementation of the civil service reform. Agreement
on a civil service action plan would be a condition for second tranche
releage. The implementation of the agreed measures would be monitored
under subsequent adjustment operations.



- 17 -
TAX Reform
52.       Backaround.  Despite high tax rates, fiscal pressure (tax/GDP
ratio of about 13 percent) in Rwanda is relatively low because of the
narrow tax base and weak tax administration. The system relies heavily on
foreign trade taxes (including export taxes on coffee) and few excise
duties, especially on beer.   Frequent exemptions from import duty and
income tax under the Investment Code or other agreements further erode the
tax base. Rwanda's tax system was first reviewed by the IMF in 1983 and
has been updated in July 1990. The recent tax modifications (see para.
17) aim at increasing the yield and efficiency of the tax structure and
moving from taxes on production and international trade toward consumption
and income taxes.
53.       SAL-Supported Reform Proaram. In addition to the recent increase
in retail prices of petroleum products (which include specific taxes), the
Government is benefitting from technical assistance from the IMF to help
improve fiscal administration and design and implement a tax system that
would shift taxes away from trade taxes and a few excise duties, and
provide adequate private sector incentives without distorting relative
prices. Under the IMF's SAF program, the Government has taken up-front
measures to increase revenues by raising the sales tax rate and broadening
its base, and observing a moratorium on new exemptions to be granted under
the Investment Code. Taxes will continue to be levied on coffee exports,
pending the recommendations of the Coffee Sector study on this issue.
The Government will also prepare an action plan for implementing the
remaining recommendations of the fiscal review starting with the 1992
budget. This will be monitored under the second year SAF arrangement.
Public Interprise Reform
54.       Backgarou. Rwanda's PR sector comprises 62 enterprises with a
combined value added of about 10 percent of GDP. The performance of the
sector has been ef9appointing and has resulted in a large burden on public
finances.  During 1983-87, net government transfers to industrial and
commercial P3. (in the form of equipment and operating subsidies, non-
reimbursed advances and repayment of debts) amounted to 6 percent of
government revenues or about 1 percent of GDP. Since all PEs are exempt
from income taxes, the PE sector also constitutes an important source of
foregone income to the State.
SS.       The Government has started a comprehensive PE reform program
designed to progressively withdraw the State from productive and
commercial activities. This program is supported by an IDA-assisted PR
Reform Project which was approved in March 1990. The specific objectives
of the PE reform program are to: (L) reduce the role of the State; (ii)
improve the institutional and legal framework for PEs; and (iii) increase
the efficiency of the sector through rehabilitation of PEs that could be
made economically viable, divestiture for those which can be privatized,
and liquidation of the non-viable ones. A specific action plan has been
agreed under the project, covering 40 public enterprises (see timetable
attached to the Letter of Development Policy in pages 40 and 41) including
adopting by September 1991, a general strategy for privatization and
submitting new legislation governing the PH. to the National Council for
Development (the Parliament) in January 1992.



- 18 -
S. Social and Environmental Aspects
56.       Rwanda made major efforts in the 1960s and 19709 in the area of
social development. However, the welfare of the Rwandese population has
worsened in recent years as a result of financial constraints and
demographic pressures.  Per capita consumption declined by almost one-
third between 1987 and 1990. The country's social indicators, which used
to be above the Sub-Saharan African average, have slipped, and are now
average for the continent. Food production has stagnated since the mid-
19808 and food insecurity has emerged as a serious problem. In 1989, as
a result of drought, some 500,000 people were facing food shortages and
lacked the necessary purchasing power to buy food in the market.  In
addition, the AIDS epidemic (about 18 percent of adults between the age
of 15 and 45 in the capital city are seropositive) has serious economic
and social consequences:   the bulk of those who die are in the most
productive age group.
57.       Government attaches high priority to protecting the vulnerable
groups during the transitional phase of the adjustment process, while
enhancing the possibilities for increased incomes and continued human
resource development over the medium term. The priority for improving the
welfare of the poor is to restore positive per capita growth. At the same
time, a combined effort to slow population growth and improve access to
and the quality of social services is necessary to ensure that the poor
reap the full benefits of restored growth. The Government has embarked on
a major new policy to slow down population growth, and a free-standing
population project with IDA support has been negotiated. In addition, the
Government has, over the past few years, been conducting a major
assessment of the impact of its education reform that began in the late
1970s. This has led to the Government's decision last July to reduce the
duration of primary education from eight to six years; this reduction will
provide about 120,000 additional places in primary schools for children of
the 7-12 age group.   The Government will encourage day-school  for
secondary classes and put more resources into primary education. Students
in secondary schools and university are expected to finance a larger share
of their education costs.   The Government's efforts in the education
sector are supported by IDA under the First Education Sector Credit which
was approved in April 1991.   In the health sector, the budget for
medecines will increase by 10 percent in real terms from 1990 to 1991.
Charges will be increased so as to cover a larger percentage of recurrent
costs to help improve the quality of services. This improvement in the
financial management of public health services will be implemented by end
1991.   Government subsidies for the sector will target the poorest
Rwandese.
58.       The SAL supports the establishment of a social "safety net"
within the framework of an agreed public exp4nditure program.   In
addition, the Government is preparing, with the help of Bank staff, a
Social Action Program to help poverty alleviation by: (i) financing the
parental share of education expenditures for the children of the poorest
10 percent of the population; (ii) establishing a labor-intensive program
for rural road construction. and soil erosion protection; (iii) launching
a development program for small entrepreneursj (iv) creating a food
security program to provide food to target populations in drought-affected
areasl and (v) establishing a redeployment fund for civil servants and
employees of the parastatal sector. The beneficiaries of such programs
would only be eligible for a limited period of time (to avoid permanent
satsidies) and the Government would rely primarily on NGos to deliver



- 19 -
thee services. To improve the monitoring of social conditions during the
adjustment period, the Government would undertake household surveys to
provide information on incomes and expenditures, employment, and other
socioeconomic indicators (e.g., health, malnutrition) with the help of
VNDP. Finally, as noted earlier (see paras. 16, 22-23) the Government is
addressing long-term development issues of population control and
environmental protection and women's development through specific projects
supported by IDA.
PART I1. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Crdit Hlstgry
59.       The proposed Credit would be the first SAL for Rwanda.  The
possibility of a SAL was first discussed with the Government in 1988. A
draft PFP was prepared by the staff of the World Bank and the IMF the same
year, but did not receive formal agreement of the Rwandese authorities
because the Government thought, at that time, that it could manage the
economLc crisis without external assistance. However, in early 1990, the
authorities concluded chat there was a need for a major reorientation of
the economy and requested the fank and the Fund to help them to elaborate
an economic reform program. The SAL was appraised in February 1991 and
negotiations were held in Washington on May 3 - 4, 1991.
B. Credit Amount and Borrower
60.       The  Government's  Structural  Adjustment  Program  would  be
supported by an IDA Credit of SDR 67.5 million (US$90 million equivalent).
The borrower would be the Government of Rwanda.   The IMF Executive
Directors have already approved the first annual arrangement under the SAF
(about US$12 million). At the March 20, 1991, special donor meeting,
participants confirmed indications of balance of payments support that
would generate disbursements of about $110 million in 1991 (see para. 25).
C. Manaaement and Monitorina of the Prooram
61.       To  monitor  program  implementation,  the  Government  would
establish an interministerial committee with representatives from the
Ministries of Finance, Planning, Commerce, and the Central Bank, under
the overall responsibility of the Minister at the Presidency.   This
interministerial committee will be supported at the technical level by the
working group which was responsible for the dialogue with the Bank during
the preparation of the proposed Credit and which will be enlarged to
include a representative of the Ministry of Commerce. Since this is the
first policy-based operation in Rwanda, frequent contacts with the
authorities through the Resident Mission staff and frequent supervision
missions will be needed to facilitate continuous monitoring of the
program's progress.  The IMF will monitor actions in exchange rate, fiscal
and monetary policy areas under the SAF.
D. Disbursements and Procurement
62.       The proposed Credit would be disbursed in two tranches, the
first becoming available upon effectiveness (around July 1991) and the
second tranche about nine months thereafter. Given the urgent need for
balance of payments assistance to support the initial phase of the
liberalization process and in view of the substantial up-front actions



- 20 -
included Ln the program, the first tranche would be Sof 41.3 mllion
(US55S million equivalent). For the same reasons, up to SOR 13.5 million
(US$18 million equivalent, i.e., 20 percent of the total amount of the
Credit) would be made available to finance retroactively the costs of
imports incurred not earlier than four months before the approval of the
proposed credit.
63.       The proposed Credit would finance 100 percent of the cif costs
of eligible imports, excluding gold, jewelry, pearls, nuclear reactors and
radio-active materials, tobacco and alcoholic beverages, defense items and
goods intended for milLtary use. Imports of food and petroleum products
will be limited to US$13.5 million. Direct imports by the Government and
public and private entities will be procured according to international
competitive bidding procedures for goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$2 million or more per contract. Goods imported by Government and
public entities estimated to cost les than US$2 million would be procured
through Rwandese public procurement procedures but in any case on the
basis of evaluation and comparison obtained from more than one supplier,
eligible under IDA guidelines.   Imports by the private dector for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$2 million would be in accordance
with normal commercial practices in Rwanda, which are acceptable to IDA.
Whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from more than one
country would be sought. The Government has already engaged the Soci6t6
Gen6rale de Surveillance (SGB) for preshipment import verification
services, and all imports financed under the Credit would be inspected
by SGS.
64.       The Government will establish a Special Account in the Central
Bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to facilitate
disbursement.   Upon Credit effectiveness,  IDA would make an initial
disbursement of US$1S million into the account. The account would be
replenished regularly and up to the limit of the first tranche on the
basis of:   (i) fully documented reimbursoment applications for import
contracts exceeding US$S50,000 and (ii) statemen's of expenditure (SONS)
for import items between US$2,000 and US$50,000.  The Government will
entrust the National Bank of Rwanda with the responsibility for
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Credit and for collection
of documents to be furnished to the Association in support of such
applications. These records and accounts, including those for Sose, will
be maintained and audited each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA# the audit report will be provided to the Association
not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year.   All
documents and supporting expenses incurred by using SOs will be kept and
made available to IDA supervision missions for review.
E. Monitorable Actions
65.       In designing the operation, maximum effort has been made to
front-load most of the key actions, while initiating the preparation of
further reforms that would be implemented later in the period covered
under the SAL as well as in subsequent adjustment operations. Specific
actions to be taken by the Government under the proposed SAL are detailed
in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) (see Annex B).
Tranche release will depend upon satisfactory review of overall
performance under the adjustment program, including maintenance of an
appropriate macroeconomic framework and upon the completion of a specified
list of core actions. The LDP forms the basis for the performance review.



- 21 -
66.       The following actions have already been taken by the Government
undet the proposed program.
- adjustment ln the exchange rate}
- establishment of the LIR for 70 percent of imports;
- agreement on the 1991-93 PIP and the 1991 Budget;
- implementatLon of the fLrat phase of tarlff reform;
- Lnterest rate liberalLzatLon;
- abolition of import prohibitions for protectLve purpose. and
the system of import prograumLng, except for a limited list of
commodities of primary necessity which represent 30 percent of
the value of imports;
- elimination of controls on profit margins and of fixed prLces
except on selected goods and services;
- increase in petroleum product prioes by 79 percent on average.
67.         The first tranche will be released after elimination of the
legislation requiring the Government to approve the creatlon of private
business establLshments.
68.       The second tranche release wlll be conditional on the Government
imple_mnting the following actions in a manner satisfactory to the
AsseciatLont
- it has *stablished a non-discriminatory foreign exchange
allocation regime based on an open general licensang system
(para. 30);
- It has implemented the second phase of the tariff reform
(para. 32);
- It has adopted a three-year rolling publlc Lnvestment program
for 1992-94 and a budget for 1992 (para. 52);
- It has, ln respect of its coffee sector:
(a) put into place an export reference prieing system that
provides a mechanLem for securing the repatriation of export
earnings; and (b) eliminated all subsidies to the Coffee
StabLilzation Fund (para. 40);
- It has adopted an action plan to reform the regulation of the
labor market (para. 38)t
- It has finalized an action plan for civil service reform
(para. 51).
- It has defined financial performance objectives for Ilectrogas
and agreed on a calendar of rate increase ln line with these
objectives (para. 42).



- 22 -
P. Benefits and Risks
69.       The measures supported by the proposed SAL (together with the
11's SAF program) are expected to contribute to the restoration of
internal and external equilibria, as well as to create the conditLong
for sustained economic growth.  In the Immediate future, keeping the
country on the adjustment path will be the main priority. While the
Government has already demonstrated its commitment to reform, there are
a number of risks which may force it to deviate from the adjustment path.
70.       The first major risk is the resumption of ethnic violence which
could derail the adjustment program. Although a cease-fire agreement has
been signed on March 29, 1991 between the Government and the rebels, there
is always a risk of other outbursts until a durable solution is negotiated
with the ethnic minority refugees in neighboring countries. The national
Government's reconciliation policy and some of the recent political
reforms (move towards multi-party system) announced by the President
should contribute to the restoration of peace and stability. A decisive
step is the recent liberation of some 8000 political prisoners and the
creation of a cease-fire monitoring group. in the long term, equitable
economic growth would be the best insurance against social and economic
instability.   The adjustment process is necessary to establish the
preconditions for the resumption of growth.
71.       A second major risk is the Government's continued commitment to
reform. On October 1, 1990 the President of Rwanda personally confirmed
to Senior Bank Management the Government's commitment to the adjustment
program.   Moreover, his Government took courageous "upfront" policy
measures in October/November 1990 which underscores the seriousness of its
commitment to the program. However, vested interest groups (e.g., civil
servants who wile. experience a decrease in their purchasing power, and
industrialists who currently benefit from protection) may attempt to slow
down the adjustment process. At the same time, lack of foreign exchange
is putting considerable pressure on economic activities, in the form of
growing scarcities, company closures, and factory operations well below
full capacity. This risk is mitigated by a growing realization among the
key pressure groups that urgent implementation of the proposed reforms is
needed to avert a serious economic crisis which could affect the social
and political stability of the country. The politically most difficult
key measures have already been implemented up-front. Moreover, the front-
loading of measures and the relatively rapid schedule of trade
liberalization proposed under the SAL are likely to result in less
adjustment fatigue, and should yield quicker growth dividends after a
relatively short stabilization period.
72.       The third risk is related to slow internalization of the reform
program. The long period of dialogue with authorities on the adjustment
program (neaTly four years) has been conducive to full internalization of
the reform objectives at the higher levels of administration. However,
the domestic information network in Rwanda has been consistently biased
against adjustment programs which advocate a less regulated and more open
economy. There is, therefore, a genuine need to stimulate discussions and
disseminate adequate information among the population at large on market-
oriented reform programs.  This process has already started with the
dissemination and discussion of the Long-Term Perspectives Study on
Africa. It will be intensified by visits by the ministers and/or high
ranking officials to tour all ten prefectures in the country in order to
explain the rationale of policy reform. The Resident Mission will continue



- 23 -
its  consensus-building  effort  throughout  the  period  of  program
implementation.   It will organize seminars and workshops on adjustment
related issues.
73.       The  fourth  risk  is  the  relatively  weak  institutional
implementation capacity of the Rwandese administration.   It should be
noted in this connection that some features of the program are intended to
reduce  the  burden  on  the  administration.       It is,  for  example,
administratively far more difficult to implement the current system of
controls (such as import programming of about 1,700 commodities, control
of profit margin of almost all commodities, etc.) than the system that is
proposed under the SAL. There are, however, certain key areas such as
tariff reform and public expenditure programming in which the Government
will need technical asaistance. Some technical assistance may also be
needed to improve the Government s policy analysis and program preparation
capacity in the social sectors.   To ensure timely availability of
institutional support, the existing IDA-supported technical assistance
projects in the Ministries of Plan and Finance will be reoriented towards
the needs of the adjustment program. In addition, UNDP funds under the
Technical Assistance for Adjustment Facility would provide an adequate
coverage for the institutional support needs of the program.
74.       Finally, there is the risk of possible delays in mobilizing
adequate  external  assistance.    The  orderly  implementation  of  the
adjustment program is critically dependent on the timely disbursement of
projected balance of payments assistance. This risk has been minimized by
obtaining firm assurances from the key donors under SPA II on the
magnitude and timing of their assistance.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.   I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed development Credit.
Barber S. Conable
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 29, 1991



- 24 -
Key Processina Event
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OAN X
a)  Time taken to prepare program:        One year
b)  Program prepared bys                   Ministry of FLnance/Ministry of
Planning
C) First IDA mission:                     April 1990
di Departure of Appraisal Missions         January 1991
e)  Negotiations completeds                May 1991
f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        July 1991



- 25 -
ANNEX A
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF
RWANDA
(Unofficial Translation from Original French Document)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        In the 1960s and 1970s, the Government's efficient management
of resources, coupled with a sustained growth in agricultural production
led to a continuous growth of per capita income and a relatively low
level of indebtedness. However, during the 19809 Rwanda's economy
experienced significant external shocks which had a marked impact on its
performance. The collapse in coffee prices on the international markets
led to a decline of more than 40% in Rwanda's export receipts. Over the
last four years these shocks compelled the Government to adopt foreign
exchange rationing along with restrictive budgetary policy measures.
The significant disequilibrium in the balance of payments resulting from
the repeated falls in coffee prices over the period 1987-90 was
essentially financed by drawing down foreign exchange reserves, which
were completely exhausted at the end of 1990. At the same time
agricultural production is facing serious difficulties due to
unfavorable climatic conditions. For these reasons, the Government of
Rwanda has decided to embark on a structural adjustment program.
2.        By the end of September 1990, an agreement had been reached
between the Rwandese authorities and the Bretton Woods Institutions on
an economic and financial policy framework paper (PFP). Few days later,
Rwanda was attacked by armed elements entering from a neighboring
country. The Rwandese army quickly regained control of the situation,
while the Government made every diplomatic effort to reach a peaceful
end to the conflict. A conference of Heads of State of the region,
attended by representatives from the OAU and the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees, was held on the 19th of February 1991 in Dar-
es-Salam. The conference adopted resolutions which could lead to a
final solution to the refugee problem alleged by the aggressors to be
the reason for the attack. A cease-fire was signed on the 29th of March
1991 in N'sele, Zaire, between the Rwandese Government and the
aggressors.
3.        Despite these events, Rwanda has confirmed its determination
to pursue an economic adjustment program by implementing all the up-
front measures which had been agreed with the World Bank and
international Monetary Fund in September 1990.
4.        Rwanda requests financial assistance from the international
community to support its structural adjustment program. Specifically,
the Rwandese Government is asking the International Development
Association (IDA) for a Structural Adjustment Credit. The main economic
and social objectives of the adjustment program are set out in the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), which was discussed by the Executive
Directors of the World Bank and the IMF in April 1991. This letter of
economic development policy reviews the recent economic developments,
recapitulates the principal objectives set out in the Policy Framework
Paper and identifies some of the reforms the Government has decided to
implement over the next two years.



- 26 -                           ANNESX B
II. THE ECONOMIC SITUATION
5.        The 1970s were for Rwanda a period of sustained economic
growth, averaging 4% a year, and of relative financial stability with a
low rate of inflation. However, at the beginning of the 1980s,
significant deterioration in the terms of trade along with insufficient
corrective policies, led to serious imbalances in the economy. The
Government did not believe that the coffee boom of the late 1970e was
only temporary and allowed public expenditure, and the wage bill, in
particular, to rise substantially. Beginning in 1983 and in order to
deal with the worsening situation, the Government cut public expenditure
and imposed much tighter restrictions on access to foreign exchange.
6.        Since 1987, Rwanda has faced a steep decline in world coffee
prices and difficult climatic conditions. Agricultural production
declined by about 14% between 1987 and 1989 and the restrictions on
imports imposed by the lack of foreign exchange led to a slowdown in
almost all economic activities. GDP fell by 0.5% a year on average
between 1985 and 1990. The rate of inflation, measured by the official
price index, remained low mainly because of the overvaluation of the
national currency.
7.        Since 1985 as a result of the fall in export earnings, the
balance of payments has deteriorated. Despite the measures taken to
curb imports, the current deficit (excluding official transfers)
fluctuated between 10% and 12% of GDP (10.4% in 1990). The decline in
exports performance cannot be exaplained solely by the fall in coffee
prices; volume of coffee exports has been declining as well; other
exports have performed poorly because of the overvalued exchange rate,
low productivity and a regulatory framework not conducive to export
development. The external deficit was financed by large amounts of
assistance from the international community, mainly in the form of
grants (which explains the relatively low level of external
indebtedness), and by depleting the foreign exchange reserves, which
fell from around five months of imports in 1987 to near zero at the end
of 1990.
8.        Regarding public finance, it has not been possible to reduce
the deficit despite the Government's efforts to contain the operating
costs of its administration. Increases in wages have been held to 3% a
year and the budgetary allocation for the purchase of goods and services
has been cut. However, the policy of maintaining high producer prices
for coffee had a serious impact on the budget. Between 1987 and 1990,
transfers to the coffee stabilization fund amounted to some 1.5% of GDP
and 6.8% of total public expenditure. over the period 1985-1990, the
budget deficit (excluding grants) increased from 6.5% to 11.7% of GDP
(including grants, it increased from 3.7% to 8.4%).
III. OBJECTIVES OF THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
9.        To adress the severe crisis affecting the Rwandese economy,
the Government has decided to modify the macroeconomic policy pursued in
the past in order to promote much greater participation by the private
sector in national development, and to encourage exports. The objective



- 27 -                           ANNMl II
is to establish a solid ground for increasing real per capita income and
improving the living standards of the population, while maintaining
domestic price stability and a sustainable budgetary and balance of
payments situation.
10.       The adopted development strategy aims at reversing the
economic decline of recent years in order to restore the growth rate to
about 4% and to limit inflation to 5 annually by 1993. The assets that
will enable Rwanda to meet its challenges are the skills of its farmers,
the fertility of its soil, the quality of its public administration and
the Government's determination to implement the reform program. Starting
from 1992, improved yields for foodcrops and traditional export crops
should enable agricultural sector production to grow at 3.6% a year.
The implementation of the private sector incentives should lead to an
average annual growth of 4.5% in the industrial sector and the recovery
of services should benefit from the new exchange rate policy. The
growth in per capita income should result in savings increasing over the
period to 8% of GOP.
11.       Regarding public finance, the Government'e objective is to
reduce the overall fiscal deficit, excluding grants, from 11.7% of GDP
in 1990 to 5.2% in 1993. The targets for 1991 and 1992 are 9.3% and
6.6% respectively. This improvement requires the introduction of
austerity measures as part of prudent and rational management. The
strategy for reducing the deficit requires a two-pronged action:
increasing tax receipts and improving the management of public
enterprises to increase revenuees and reducing direct and indirect
subsidies, eliminating transfers to the coffee stabilization fund,
gradually reducing additional military expenditures resulting from
hostilities, and controlling the growth of the wage bill to constrain
expenditures.
12.       To improve the foreign trade situation, the Rwandese franc was
devalued. This will not necessarily lead to a corresponding improvement
in the current account balance, as imports would have to increase over
the period to restore economic growth, while the exports will take time
to yield results. Therefore, the current account deficit would increase
to 15.2% of GDP in 1991, gradually falling thereafter to 12.4% in 1992
and 11.4% in 1993.
13.       To attain the objectives of this adjustment program, the
Government has launched a series of reforms that are intended to:
(i) improve the competitiveness of the Rwandese economy; (il) encourage
private sector activities; (iii) eliminate production constraints in key
productive sectors; (iv) improve public resources management; and
(v) provide a "social safety net" within a public expenditure program
consistent with the macroeconomic framework, in order to protect the
poorest and most vulnerable groups in the population.
14.       In addition to measures already implemented and to those which
will be implemented in the short run, this program contains actions that
will help to identify and develop further reforms to be implemented
gradually over the following years.



- 28 -
IV. STRUCTURAL ADJUt    PROGRUI STRATUGY AND M3A3U
A.   Mroving the QMMet-tvnsess of thk RwSanee Rconcmy
nho xchanae Rate
15.       The Government recognizes the need to adjust the exchange rate
to restore the competitiveness of Rwandese products and bring the supply
and deomand for foreign exchange into equilibrium. Therefore the
Government declded on November 9, 1990 to devalue the Rwandese franc
vis-a-vis the SDR by 66.7% in local currency (40% in foreign
currencies). The exchange rate policy will be reviewed whenever
necessary in light of the balance of payments situation and the progres
made in the pace of import liberalization, in order to reach a market
determined exchange rate.
XmuortsaRecimn
16.       The objective is to replace the current system of import
programming by an Open General Licensing system (OGL),(with the
exception of petroleum products due to their strategic importance) at
the latest in June 1992, or earlier if existing financial resources are
sufficient to ensure the equilibrium of supply and demand of foreign
currencies. In the interim a liberalized import regime (LIR) is being
adopted. During this period, the import programming system will be
retained only for a limited list of commodities of "primary necessity"
which represents about 30% of the value of imports. This list was
prepared in consultation with the World Dank and the IMF. As soon as
the first tranche of the IDA credit supporting the program has baen
released, the list will be reduced to petroleum products. If existing
financial resources are insufficient, the Association and the Government
will agree on a time-table for a progressive reduction of this list.
17.       This temporary system includes a mechanism to evaluate the
excess demand for foreign exchange relative to its supply. Bach month,
the National Bank of Rwanda will announce the amount of foreign exchange
available and importers will be invited to apply for allocation. A non-
refundable fee of 5% on the value of import licenses, requested in local
currency, will be paid for all categories of imports throughout the
duration of the LIR. Applications for import licenses will be
transmitted to the National Bank of Rwanda by commercial banks after the
Ministry of Commerce makes sure that the commission of 5t has been
received. If the requests exceed foreign exchange availability, the
National Bank of Rwanda will reduce proportionately the amount of
foreign exchange provided to each importer. The importers will have six
months to accumulate foreign exchange and use it. To ensure transparency
in these operations, the list of applications made and allocations
received by each importer will be published every month.
Tariff Recime
18.       To rationalize the allocation of national resources and
stimulate the competitiveness of the Rwandese industries, the Government
is revising the customs tariff. The objective of this reform ia not to
increase customs receipts but to reduce current disparities in the level
of effective protection of various economic activities. For this
reason, a minimum rate of 10% has been in effect for all products since



- 29 -                           mXU.
December 1990. The number of rates will also be reduced and the maximum
rate will decline from 220% to 100% in 1991, and will be significantly
lowered again in 1992 and 1993. Furthermore, all rates will be ad
walorem except for certain specific products, a list of which has been
prepared in conjunctLon with the World Bank. To ensure that these
ref*rms are implemented satisfactorily, the Government has established a
special comission. The first round of the reform will be effective by
June 30, 1991 at the latest.
19.       Over the past decades, imports of some products were
prohibited or subject to quotas to protect local industries from foreign
competition. In line with the new liberalization policy, it has been
decided to elLminate these prohibitions and quotas by June 1, 1991
except in the case of dumping, and replace them with a temporary
surcharge which will be eliminated in 1993 at the latest. The recent
foreign trade law, promulgated in December 23, 1989, will be revised
before June 30, 1991 to remove all stipulations contrary to the
liberalization policy.
Financlal gector
20.       The reforms proposed in the real sector of the economy have to
be complemented by a consistent monetary policy and a flexible and
efficient financial system. The Government initiated this process in
1990 by eliminating the preferential credit system and subsidized
interest rates for the so-called priority sectors. At the same time,
interest rates wers significantly increased in order to stimulate
domestic savings.
21.       To encourage competition in the financial sector, the
Government intends to gradually reduce the imposition of individual
credit ceilings or to minimize their negative effects. In the future,
the interbank market wlll be developed and a mandatory reserves system
will be gradually introduced. In addition, to stimulate banking
activity, the Government will examine the possibilities of giving bank.
tax relief on the amounts set aside as provisions. Finally, a
significant effort is required in the training of personnel, both in the
National Bank and in other financial institutions.
B. Incentives for Private Sector Develooment
Pricing Policy
22.       To improve economic efficiency, the Government has decided to
rely on market forces so as to ensure effective resource allocation and
to motivate the private sector. On November 9, 1990 all controls over
profit margins were removed, except for monopolies. For natural
monopolies (utilities), prices will be fixed according to the principles
of sound financial management. Prices fixed administratively were also
deregulated on November 9, 1990, except for a limited number of goods
and services agreed with the World Bank and IMF (retail prices for
petroleum products, minimum producer prices for coffee, tea, wheat,
rice, sugarcane and pyrethrum. as well as pharmaceutical products and
public health service consultation rates). The decision to deregulate
prices has been officialized by a asries of ministerial decrees. The
full impact of the exchange rate adjustment will be passed on in the
case of goods and services whose new prices will remain temporarily
fixed. This measure came into effect on November 13, 1990 for petroleum



- 30 -                          MM  a
products and on January 20, 1991 for public transportation. Zlectricity
and water tariffs are being raised by 50%, effective June 1, 1991.
Institutimnal-Framework for the Private Sector
23.     The Government has decided to redefine the legal and
institutional framework for the private sector and to sLmplify
administrative procedures in order to facilitate the process of starting
a new business and increase private sector participation in production,
trade and job creation. All the basic documents in the cowmercial code
will be revised to adapt them to the new economic environment, and
legislation will be amended to simplify administrative procedures and
harmonize them with the revised code. Before January 1, 1992 an action
plan will be prepared to eliminate the principal obstacles to the smooth
operation of the private sector and define the various phases of the
revision of the commercial code. To facilitate the settlement of
business disputes among economic operators, it is planned to set up
commercial tribunals and establish a corps of appointed officials for
the notification and execution of commercial proceedings.
24.       To encourage investment in the private sector, the Government
has decided to simplify the Investment Code so as to make it easier to
administer and to adapt it to the needs of the current situation. The
new Investment Code, after review in conjunction with the World Bank,
will be prouulgated before June 30, 1991.
Labor xazke
25.       The Government's objective for the labor market is to promote
mobility and employment. A study financed by a Special Project
Preparation Facility from IDA will be undertaken to analyze the various
features of the labor market in Rwanda and identify necessary reforms in
labor legislation. Baed on the results of this study, an action plan
to amend the labor legislation will be prepared and discussed with the
World Bank before being implemented by mid-1992 at the latest. This
action plan will include a measure authorizing enterprises to hire
without going through the Ministry of Labor.
26.       To encourage the establishment of new industrial and
commercial activities, the Gov.rnment is examining the possibility of
reducing the administrative steps required for the establishment of
private business. In the meantime, relevant legislation will ke amended
to abolish the requirement for prior authorization for establishing a
business, currently obtainable from the Ministry of Commerce and
Consumption.
C. Su=Dly Side Measures
27.       Given the decline in GDP over the past five years, the success
of Rwanda's structural adjustment program requires implementing a
strategy to stimulate production wherever there is a potential. This
strategy must explore all opportunities which may lead to an increase in
export receipts so that Rwanda will reduce its heavy dependance on
foreign assistance. In addition to the exchange rate management, policy
oriented toward promoting exports and developing tourism, the strategies
actually followed in key sectors of the economy must be reassessed with
the aims of enhancing management to achieve increased efficiency and
taking advantage of all opportunities offered by the external market of



- 31 -                           ANNB B
an open economy. From this standpoint, the agriculture, mining, energy,
transportation, international trade and tourism sectors will receive
special attention.
Agricultural Sector
28.       The trend in food availability in Rwanda during the 1980's
indicates that the current sectoral atrategy cannot ensure food security
for the population. Rwanda is now at a cross-roads where some important
decisions regarding agricultural planning have to be taken. The national
commission for agriculture and the experts of the World Bank agree that
to reach food security the agricultural sector has to shift from
subsistence production and become market-oriented. This leads to
important implications for planning of activities in the agricultural
sector including, in particular, the choice of crops which can be
economically promoted.
29.       A significant part of the new agricultural strategy has
already been prepared. The Government still has to define its sectoral
priorities, to assess the long-term impact of the new strategy on the
population's food security and to determine the investments to be made.
This work will be completed by mid-1992 at the latest. The new market
oriented agriculture and strategy will consider export-oriented
production as well as import substituting production. This strategy Is
consistent with the overall strategy of reducing the external deficit
and is part of the adjustment program. In the next paragraphs, and as
part of the adjustment of the agricultural sector, we present our short-
to-medium-term strategy in the following sub-sectors:
Cof fee
30.       In light of recent developments on world coffee markets and
the medium and long-term outlook, the Government is planning to
reconsider the policies followed so far in the sector in order to adapt
them to the new market environment. The study which began for this
purpose in June 1990 will be completed by September 1991. It will among
other things indicate ways to improve the quality of Rwandese coffee and
liberalize the sector so as to stimulate producers and thereby raise
output. Based on the results of this study, an action plan will be
prepared and discussed with the World Bank before December 1991.
31.       In the meantime, the Government has deregulated the
collection, processing and exporting of coffoe as of the beginning of
the 1991-1992 season. A system of export reference price determined via
consultation by a committee of representatives of all exporters and
OCIR-Caf6 will be introduced before the beginning of the 1992-1993
season. Given the difficult domestic financial situation, the
Government will take all appropriate steps to eliminate in 1991 any
remaining subsidy to the Coffee Stabilization Fund.
32.       To reduce the dominant role of coffee in Rwanda's exports, the
export development strategy places special emphasis on increasing tea
production in the short and medium terms. A study of the sector will be
undertaken in order to carefully examines (i) the possibility of
expanding tea cultivation in the form of industrial plantations and
small-scale operations by independent farmers, (ii) the most effective



- 32 -                           ANN   _
means of supplying and applying fertilizers and other inputs and (iii) a
formula for determining producer prices that reflects world prices.  The
study will also evaluate the marketing system and consider the
possibility of reorganizing production units in order to guarantee
greater financial and management autonomy. The possibility of greater
private sector participation will also be examined.
New Acricultural Exports and Substitutes to Imnorts
33.       The macroeconomic and institutional reforms of the structural
adjustment program, will have a positive impact on the profitability of
activities aimed at export diversification (vegetablee, fruits, flowers,
decorative plants,...) and import substitution (sugar, wheat, rice,...).
The new agricultural strategy will emphasize the development of these
activities. In particular, it will seek to develop a strategy of
expanding production in sectors where import substitution is profitable
and to develop a strategy of expanding production in sectors where
export is profitable. The terms of reference of these studies will be
finalized and discussed with the World Bank before the end of June 1991.
The studies will start in January 1992 at the latest.
Minina Sector
34.       Mining exports, which accounted for 10% to 15% of total
exports up to 1985, had practically disappeared by 1987. However,
mining activity resumed in 1989. The exchange rate adjustment of last
November should have restored the profitability of this sector. Efforts
will now be focused on improving the management of the two new units the
Small Miners Cooperative (COPIMAR) and the State Mining Corporation
(REDEMI) in order to take full advantage of the new incentives
framework. The first phase is to evaluate, between now and the end of
June 1991, the performance of these two enterprises. A five-year
workplan for COPIMAR and REDEMI will be subsequently prepared in
consultation with the World Dank before December 1991. The possibility
of greater private sector participation will also be considered.
Eneray
35.       In the energy sector, we will seriously consider policies to
reduce energy costs and rationalize the management in the sector as a
whole. Our objective is to encourage energy conservation and minimize
the budgetary impact of the present sizable subsidies to the
hydroelectricity sector.
36.       In this context, the exploitation of methane gas from Lake
Kivu is a high priority for the Rwandese Government, since in the past
the substitution of this gas for imported fuels did yield high returns
in a number of areas. Furthermore, its impact on the environment will
be positive because it is a good substitute for wood which is currently
the main fuel utilized in many industries, tea in particular. A master
plan is in preparation for electricity production. It will define
optimal choices in the area of production and should be completed by
mid-1992. On the demand side, the Government has, since November 13,
1990, passed on the full effect of the exchange rate adjustment on the
new prices of petroleum products in order to curb demand and also
increase the budgetary contribution of the taxes levied on these
products.



- 33 -                          ANEX
37.       The Government will raise electricity tariffs in order to
bring them in line with the long-term marginal cost of electricity. In
the short term, it was decided on April 26, 1991 to raise the tariff by
S0% starting from June 1, 1991.
38.       Finally, one of the Government's priorities is the preparation
of a performance contract in order to improve the management of
ELMCTROGAZ. This contract is to be completed and discussed with the
World Bank by the end of 1991.
Transgprtation Sector
39.       The Government's objectives are to improve Rwanda's internal
and external communications, reduce transportation costs and improve
management in order to increase returns.
40.       To achieve the above-mentioned objectives will require not
only additional investments in the transportation sector but also the
Introduction of greater competition. To this end, existing regulations
must be revised to remove existing barriers to entry into the sector.
The new regulations will come into effect by mid-1991 at the latest. In
addition, all restrictions regarding the free choice of mode of
transportation for imports and exports have been eliminated.
41.       The pricing policy in transportation is being liberalized.
The prices of international transportation, the prices of internal
transportation of goods and private passenger transportation were
deregulated in December 1990. The fares paid in public passenger
transportation were increased 20% in January 1991 to reflect the impact
of structural adjustment measures, particularly the exchange rate
devaluation and the increase in fuel prices.
42.       The operating conditions of public enterprises such as
ONATRACON, STIR and AIR RWANDA will be reviewed as part of the Public
_nterprises Rehabilitation and Restructuring project supported by IDA.
A performance contract with ONATRACOM is under study and is to be
adopted before the end of 1991. Financial and management audits of STIR
are ongoing and will provide the basic data to enable the partial
privatization of this enterprise. This privatization plan is to be
completed not later than the end of 1991. In addition, since a recent
study of increased air access to the country pointed to the need to a
dependable national carrier, an in-depth reorganization of Air Rwanda
will take place before end 1992.
Exnooxt Promotion
43.       The Rwandese Government considers that disequilibrium between
import and export constitutes a major constraint to its development
policy, especially since its exports are extremely dependent on coffee.
The export promotion and diversification strategy will be intensified
during the program period. The devaluation which improved the
competitiveness of Rwandese products on the world market constitutes a
major stop forward. Furthermore, to reach its objectives, the
Government has adopted a three pronged program: the improvement of the
regulatory and the institutional framework; the expansion of production
and marketing of goods and services for exports; the support of private
entrepreneurehip and training programs to increase the quality of labor.



- 34 -                          am L B
44.       Regarding the regulatory and institutional framework, the
objective is to facilitate export activities by introducing appropriate
incentives.
45.       The expansion of production and marketing of products and
services for export forms rart of products/market specific strategies
which will be defined and implemented. These strategies will define for
each exportable product the ways and means to expand production and how
to export them to specific markets.
46.       These measures will be complemented by actions to promote the
emergence of a class of competent entrepreneurs in the productive and
services sectors (banks, transit, transportation, insurance,
information,...). This target can be reached under the following
conditions%
- getting a complete set of data;
- providing appropriate training;
- technical assistance on management and organization of
enterprises and on how to explore new markets;
- technical assistance on defining quality standards and
implementing quality control.
A coherent strategy is being prepared by the Government and will be
presented for discussion to the World Bank before the end of 1991.
Promotion of Tourism
47.       Rwanda should be an ideal place for tourism due to its
pleasant climate, its beautiful landscape, its exotic plants and
animals, its modern hotels and its relatively developed communication
systems. The development of this sector requires the implementation
before the end of 1991 of the master plan which has just been completed.
The first step will be the full capacity utilization of existing
infrastructure and negotiating with neighboring countries so as to ease
movement of visitors. The Government should encourage the population to
preserve the nature and its resources.
48.       To improve the profitability of existing infrastructure, the
Office    Tourism and National Parks should be restructured. The
Governm..Lt has decided to gradually withdraw from the management of the
hotels it owns and to concentrate on promoting tourism. The hotel
privatization strategy will be approved by Nay 31, 1992. Regarding
tourism activities and national parks, a performance contract will be
signed between the State and the Office before September 30, 1992.
49.       The Government intends to preserve the natural forests,
protect the national parks and prepare in the medium term new facilities
for tourigm. The animals of these parks and forests should be protected
to preserve the natural environment but also for touristic and
scientific purposes.
D. Imnrovina Public Resource Manacement
50.       The structural adjustment program adopted by Rwanda is
intended among other things to reduce the budget deficit, which has now
reached unsustainable levels. This objective will be achieved through
tighter expenditure control. However, priority programs in the social



- 35-                           AMNEX_
sectors and the maintenance of national infrastructure should recelve
adequate financing. To this end, the Government is in the process of
introducing resource allocation procedures based on a three-year public
expenditure program and a three-year rolling public investment program.
These programs will serve as a basis for the preparation of the annual
budget.
Ubg XnveLstmnt Proaram (-IP&R
S1.       Considerable progress was made in 1990 in the preparation of
a PIP. The programming of public investments is hampered, however, by
the lack of long-term sectoral strategies in the main sectors. Some of
the projects presented to donors for financing, therefore, are not
always part of clear sectoral strategies.
52.       To remedy this situation, long-term strategies for key sectors
of national development must be rapidly prepared in order to make sure
that now projects are consistent with the sector strategy. In addition,
it is important to adopt a nationwide guide defining the selection
criteria for public investment projects and the guidelines to be
followed by the Government and donors in selecting projects for
inclusion in the PIP. This guide will set out the institutional
techniques and procedures which will be the basis for the planning,
analysis, negotiation and programming of development projects in the
PIP. It will be prepared in consultation with the World Bank by the end
of December 1991.
53.       Each year the technical ministries, in collaboration with the
various donors, will project disbursements for each project over the
next three years; these will be revised every six months to reflect the
actual pace of implementation. The Ministry of Planning will
consolidate these projections and adjust them after a critical
examination of each indivldual project which takes into account the
nature of the project, the past performarce in project implementation
and absorptive capacity. It will also make sure that the overall
investment is compatible with the macroeconomic framework. Bach year,
the Government will discuss with the World Bank the draft three-year
rolling PIP before October 30, with the program for the period 1992-94
starting on October 30, 1991.
S4.       The Government has agreed with the World Bank to adjust the
1991-93 three-year PIP to the level indicated In the macroeconomic
framework. A donor's Round Table will be organized by UNDP and the
Government in December 1991 to discuss the financing of the 1992-94 PIP.
QPntrol of Public NxDenditure
55.       In order to control public expenditure and to ensure a
satisfactory allocation of resources between investment expenditure and
recurrent costs, the Government will establish three-year sectoral
public expenditure programs (PEP) reflecting the sectoral strategies.
The PEP, the PIP and the budget will be entirely consistent with each
other. The PEP will be prepared in 1991 in consultation with the World
Bank for the agriculture, health, education, transportation and public
works sectors and incorporated into the 1992 budget. This procedure
will be extended to all other sectors for the preparation of the 1993
budget.



- 36 -                          AMM8
Fiscal Reform
56.       The Government rocognlieo the need to ratLonalize and Improve
the offLeLency of the tax system so as to stLmulate further economLc
growth. For this reason, taxes on forelgn trade and productlon wlll be
gradually replaced by taxes on consumptlon and income. Some of the
reCommendatlons derivlng from studies undertaken by the IMF ln 1983 and
1990 have already been applied and the Government has requested further
technLcal assistance from the IMF to prepare in-depth reforms of
Rwanda's tax system. Thle plan will be gradually introduced startlng
with the 1992 budget.
Publle Rnterariseg
57.       The Policy Framework Paper (1991-93) reaffirms the LntentLon
of the Rwandese Government to deal with the public enterprises. IDA has
declded to support its efforts wlth a credit for the rehabilltation and
restructurlng of public enterprlses. The main objectlves of thLi reform
are to: (i) reduce the role of the State in thls sector; (iL) improve
the legal and institutional framework for the public enterprLses; and
(LL1) Lncrease sector efficLency by rehabllitating enterprlses that can
be made economically viable, divestLture for those that can be
privatized, and liquidation of the non-vlable ones. A general strategy
for prlvatization will be adopted before September 30, 1991 and a new
legLslation on public enterprises will be adopted before December 1991.
The tlmetable for the rehabilitation, privatization and liquidation of a
certaln number of enterprLses has been revised and a copy is attached in
annx.
iLl ServLce Reform
58.       Clvil servlce reform in Rwanda is necessary to make lt more
efficient and to improve lts management. The functional structure of
all the mlnistrles ie belng examlned in order to improve the lntegration
of the tasks and functions of the various ministerial departments and to
rationalize personnel management. The functions of each department will
be reviewed and if necessary redefined so as to ensure greater
efficiency. The links and relationships among the different departments
will also be revlewed to ensure proper circulation of information among
departments. The organization chart of the civll servlce will be
updated to reflect these changes.
59.       The regulations governing recruitment, promotions, careers and
voluntary or compulsory departures will be amended. The rules governing
mobllity will be clearly set out. The compensatlon pollcy for the Civil
Service wlll be revlewed to ensure a closer link between wage increases
and performance. The possibility of introducing a skill-based bonus
will also be studied.
60.       A study of the clvll service le under way wlth UNDP
assistance. This study wlll be expanded and completed to take account
of all the concerns mentloned above. On the basis of thie study, an
action plan outlinlng the civil service reform program and a timetable
for its implementatLon wlll be prepared before January 1992.
61.       As part of this reform, institutlons resa;,siAble for the
successful implementation of the structural adjustment program will
receive specific attentlon: the MinLitry of Planning and the Ministry



- 37 -                          ANEX A
of Pinance, which monitor the implementation of thls program,
perlodlcally, the progress made, and, if necessary, refocus it to ensure
that it. objectives are met.
B. Social Asnecta of Development
62.       The Government is concerned about the deterLoration in the
population' state of health as a result of the budget cuts in recent
years and the alarming demographic expansion. The main social
indicators, which for a long time have been above those for other
African countrLes, now indLcate that Rwanda has fallen back to the
average for the continent. Food production has not increased since the
mid-1980. and hunger is now a permanent and disturbing problem. In 1989
almost 500,000 persons were sufferlng from famine since they lacked
sufficient purchasing power to buy food in the market. The Government
has therefore decided to establish a "social safety net" to protect on
one hand the social sectors (health, education, population,...) in the
context of a program of restrictive public spending, and to initiate on
the other hand a siocial action program to assist the most vulnerable
groups in the population.
Health
63.       In the health sector, the Government has decided to increase
the present inadequate level of budgetary resources in order to meet the
population's needs. First, budgetary allocation for purchases of
medicine will be increased 10% in real terms compared to the
particularly low allocation for 1990. In addition, to increase the
available resources for public health facilities and to bring the level
and qualLty of public health care closer to private sector standards,
services will be priced so as to improve the recovery of nonwage
operating costs. State subsidies will be targeted at the poorest groups
to ensure their access to health care. The savings resulting from
better cost recovery will be allocated to self-managed programs of
national interest, such as the fight against AIDS and malaria. This
decentralization of the financial management of public medical
structures will begin before the end of 1991. In addition, budgetary
allocations for public health facilities will be altered to reflect the
volume of services provided to the population covered.
Pouation
64.       Aware of the problems arising from the explosive demographic
growth, the Government has set up the Office National de la Population
(ONAPO). The ongoing family planning campaigns will be intensified to
reach the entire population and family planning services will be
extended to all public or approved health facilities. An important
population program to be financed by several donors is being implemented
to support Rwanda's efforts in this area.
Educat$on
65.       To expand the coverage of education services to a larger
section of the population, the Government has decided to take the
following measures: (i) reduce the primary cycle from eight years to
six; (ii) make greater use of day schools in the secondary cycle, and
(1ii) increase beneficiaries participation in the financing of secondary
and higher education. These measures will increase the resources



- 38 -                           Una a
available for education to extend the coverage of the educational system
and improve its quality. Primary Education will have priority for
additional resources allocated to the education sector. This new
approach will improve the qualLty of educatlon in the prLmary ector in
improving the school infrastructure, enhanclng the quallty of teachers
reinforcing their supervLoLon and deploying them ratlonally.
Aotions an Behalf of  omen
66.       The Government has made a serious attempt to improve the
status of women. It will contlnue to recognlse the role that women play
in economic and socLal development and will strengthen the measures to
improve their living standards and reduce their work burden. The
various reforms ln the social sector referred to above will have a
defLinte Lmpact on the status of women. The general level of educatlon
of the population as a whole will be raised and of women in partlcular.
The measures pertaining to the health sector will improve the health
status of the population and provide better protection for families and
mothers ln particular.
Social Assistance Project
67.       In addition to maintalning soclal services at their present
levels, the Government expects to develop, with assistance from donors,
a series of programs to alleviate the potential impact of the economic
crLsis on the most vulnerable groups of the population bys (i)
financing the parental share of educatlon expenditures for children of
the poo-'st families; (ii) introducing a food socurity program for
populations in drought-affected areas; (iii) introducing labor-intensive
works program for rural roads construction and soil eroslon protection;
(iv) launching a micro-entrepreneurial development program; and (v)
establishing a redeployment fund for civil servants who are laid off
because of budget cuts. These programs will be elaborated in detail in a
report to be lssued before June 30, 1991 and their implementation should
start by the end of December 1991.
Envr2oment.
68.       The rational management of natural resources and the
protection of the environment are an integral part of Rwanda' s
development strategy. The Government is finalizing an environmental
action plan which will be soon presented to the donors. This plan
Lncludes:
-   establishing a legal and institutional framework to ensure
the consistency of policies designed to protect the
environment.
-   Lnforming and explaining to the population the importance of
preserving the environment.
- implementation of regional development programs.
-   pollution control  and waste treatment.
-   rational exploitations of natural resources.
-   a program to promote soil conservation and reforestation.
- controlling population growth.
The objective of protecting the environment will be a part of all
development projects.



- 39 -                           ANNEX I
Political ReformS
69.        Tn parallel to current economic reforms, the Rwandess
Government started since July 1, 1987 a process of democratization which
should lead shortly to political pluralism. This should greatly
contribute to the success of the program.
Washington, May 3, 1991
Benoit NTIGULIRWA,
Minister of Finance



- 40 -                          AmX B
REVISED TIMETABLE FOR THE PUBLIC ENTEEPRISES PROJECT
Measure                        Action                    Dea4line
Legal and Institutional          Approval by
Framework:  Revision of the    - Technical CIC                    08/31/91
Basic Law on Public            - Ministerial CIC                  09/31/91
Enterprises                    - Government Council               10/31/91
- Adoption by the National
Development Council             01/31/92
General Privatization          Approval by
Strategy                       - Technical CIC                    07/31/91
- Ministerial CIC                 08/31/91
- Government Council              09/30/91
Rwandese Republic              Finalization                       08/31/91
Divestitures                   Approval by
- Technical CIC                   09/30/91
-SONATUBES                     - Ministerial CIC                  10/31/91
-Imprimerie Nationale du       - Government Council               11/31/91
Rwanda
-STIR
-RWANTEXCO
-Forge Gouvernementale
-OVAPAM
-P6rimetres rizicoles
-Papeteries du Rwanda
-ORTPN (hotel activity)
Rehabilitation and/or          Finalization                       04/30/92
Restructuring of:              Approval by
- Technical CIC                   05/31/92
-Malserie de Mukamira          - Ministerial CIC                  06/31/92
-OVIBAR                        - Government Council               07/31/92
-ORTPN (Tourism and            - signature of program
National Parks activities)      contracts                        09/30/92
-Regie des A6roports
-BUNEP
-ELECTROGAZ
-Caisse Sociale du Rwanda
-Sucrerie Rwandaise



- 41 -                          AM=E  a
Meaux                          Acti                      Deadline
Diagnostic Studies for:        Finalization                       12/31/92
Approval by
-Caisse Hypothdcaire           - Technical CIC                    02/28/93
du Rwanda                     - Ministerial CIC                  04/30/93
-AIR RWANDA                    - Government Council               06/30/93
_REDEMI
-ONATRACOf
-OCIR-T8E
-OCIR-CAFE
-OPRIVIA
-TRAFIPRO
-SONARWA
-SOMITRAP
-SONAFRUITS
-OPYRWA
-R6gis de 1l 'mprimerie
Scolaire
-MAGERWA
-SODEPARAL
-SoRWU
-Caiss. d'Zpargne du Rwanda
-Rgie Apicale
-cimenterie
-Laiteries
-Petrorwanda
-RWANDEX
-BRD
Contract-Plans for             Finalization                      12/31/93
Enterpriseo to be              Approval by
Rehabilitated among those      - Technical CIC                   01/31/94
Listed in Diagnostic Studies   - Ministerial CIC                 02/28/94
- Government Council              03/30/94
- Signature of program
contracts                       05/31/94
Privatization or Liquidation   Finalization                      10/31/93
Plans for Enterpries to be   Approval by
Privatised or Liquidated       - Technical CIC                   11/30/93
among those Llsted in          - Ministerial CIC                 12/31/93
Diagnostic StudLes             - Government Council              01/31/94



_iI) - SM  Policy  ate ix                                                     Amex C - Page I
Sector                Objectives                                     Measures                                                  Timetable
t. Excbanoand Trade Poticy Reaime
a.   Exh e Rate                 Achieve a market clearing exchange           An initial devaluation.                                   Devaluation on 11/9/90.
rate.
The exchange rate policy will be regularly examined      During prOgram period.
and adjustments mill be made if necessary.
b.   Forei  Exchange            Liberalize ilports.                          Eliminatfon of Iaport prohibitions except for item        June 1. 1991.
Allocation and                                                          normally prohibited for health or security reasons.
Iqort reget                                                            Prohibition will eventually be replaced by a suharge
which will be eliminated in 1993.
tptlementatfon of a "Liberalized lport Regime" CLIR)     Anrounced on 11/9/90 and
covering 70K of lpworts; teaporary iwport programing     to take effect from aune 1,
for essential goods, representing 30K of the value of    1991.
Ieorts.
Revision of Foreign Trade Law.                           June 30. 1991.
Establish on open General Licensing System (O0.) to      Before mid-1992.e
cover alt Reports, except for petroleum.
C.   Tariff Regima              Rationalize the tariff structure by          Coinrt specific taxes to ad vatorem for all products,     tiptmeented
moing to ad valorin rates and to a          except for petroleum products, beverages and              (Law of 12/14/90).
unifor structure with fewer tariff          cigarettes.
categories and reduced spread.
first Ohase of tariff reform Incrrated in 1991
budet:         Minima tariff at 10                       Law of 12/14/90.
Maxima tariff at 100X                     Jurie 1991.
Wlesantation of 2nd phase of tariff refom In 1992        Budget 1992.
budget.
2. incentives for Private Sector Growth
a. Pricing Policies             Eliminate price distortiona.                 Elinate all controls oeer profits margins except         febuy 1991.
for m WFpolies. Prices for natural mnopolies  flied
in wcwrdance with sound finacial prineiples.
Abolish fixed prices for all products, except for a      Armounted on 11/9/90 and
smll mrer of goode and services.                         effective since February
1991.
for goods ad services _e prices remaIn fixed, the        Irptemented.
full ilpact of the exchange rate adjustment will be
posed through.
b.   Regulatory                 Liberali2e and siaplify procedures           Abolish prior authorization for enterprise creatlon by   July 1991.*
Framework                  for business creation.                      the Ministry of Commerce.
Prepare an action plan for the reform of institutional   Jamiary 1992.
framwork.
Cndition of effectiv s
-- Condition of secd tra
release



DEA  - VAL fotliy Wat x Arls                                                         C - Pap 2
Sector                ObJectives                                      Neesures                                                   tih4ie
Encourase labor mobilty.                     Latmah tabor mrket stud.                                   Iuma 1991.
Prepere action piln to lapteeent the ratmoiedatilom       1Id1992."
of this labor mErket study.
3.   SUatY Sfd. NUasus
e.   Agrieulturat Sector         Expansion and divaroiffcetion of the         Adopt a strategy for the develompmnt of agriculture.       Xfd+f9S.
agriculturat prodaction.
Iqwove the efficiency of the coffee          ltberaltze the entry In,  the morket of gathering,        Ipto  ented.
sector.                                      processing  nd export of    ^
Establish export reference price.                         Aprit 1992.-
Etflination of budjetary transfers to the Coffee          1991.-
Stabitization fund.
Prepare action plan based on sector strategy study.       December 1991.
b.   EnergY                      ltopre sector efficieny.                     Electricity tariff increase of SO.                         Adopted on Aprit 26;
effective from JAm 1, 1991.
Estabish fifacfal objectives for ELECTUOGNZ end          Deeebr 1991."
adaption of a calendar to revise the tariff for
electricity. Adaption of a contract-plan for
ELECTROGAZ.
Coapteto Pouer Nster Plan.                                End 1992.
4.   P"blic Resource Wneoement
a.   Proorne  and                cqrroe  progrmirn end monItoring of          Agreement an the t991-93 PIP and t991 budget.              Ioptemented.
onwitoring of              current and capital expenitures,
P"tlic Expenditures        bille ensuring social  safety net*.           Three-year por. 1992-9  for pubtSe xpendtures oh          Secaer 1991.
beatth, education. ariculture, trensport and pubtIc
Wkrbs.
Agremnt on 1992-94 PIP.                                   Octtber 199.**
Aremnt on the 1992 budet.                                 Jway 1992."
Prepae guide for puilfc Investment projects.              Deceher 1991.
Three-yea  progmming for phtIc expenditures               1993  udet.
extended to all sectors.
Reduce the consolidated budget               Policy of budgetary restraInts.                           Ouring pros   period.
deficit of the Central Government.
b.   Civit Service               Rationalize civil service.                   Agreemet on action plan to reform civil service.           Juwy 1992."
*Cndition of effectivenes
* Condition of second tranho
rlteese



- 44 -
iiL   ii   2i    2  g       5]5§'IJ i l
I!  |       l-              h  i}  tIt
,~       i !5    *0      1          ii
V ~I~ i                          i



- 45 -
Annex D
Page 1 of 5
28-4et-Si
Table 1
MAMA   - KEY INDICATORS
(In percwnt ecept otherwise indlcated)
1988    1987    1888    188 19 9  I0 1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Oroth Rates
GOP                                      5.5    -0.3     0.3    -5.7    -2.0       1.0     3.7      3.8     3.9     4.0
Gross DOcmetic Iranco  (GMY7             6.2     4.3     2.6    -5.7    -5.8       2.1     3.8      4.0     4.4     4.5
GoY womei InD     e                      2.4    -7.7    -1.1    -9.0    -9.2    -1.5       0.1      0.3     0.7     0.8
Private onsuwsthn per caPite             3.0    -8.1    -3.2   -10.8   -12.2    -2.7       0.1      0.2     0.2     0.3
External ebt
Debt Service (mill. USS)                19.4    27V.     27.5    27.1    27.2    31.7    34.0    35.2    37.2    38.5
of uhich: Interest (miii. US$)         5.4     7.4      9.4     7.8     9.8    11.3    11.2    11.3    11.4    11.8
Debt Service                             8.5    16.5    17.1    18.3    17.7    20.9    20.9    18.7    17.2    15.5
Total debt/GSP                          22.2    28.8    28.7    28.0    28.8    28.3    27.4    28.2    28.8    29.2
Ratios to MP
Gross Investment                        15.9    15.8    15.7    15.8    12.5    15.9    15.8    15.8    15.9    16.0
Domaestic Savings                        8.3     6.3     6.4      6.3     3.8      3.0     5.3      6.2     7.2    8.1
National Savings                         8.2     8.2     6.3      0.2     3.4      2.2     4.8      6.0     7.0     8.0
PMbil IC investment                      9.2    15.6    15.8    15.5    12.4    15.8    15.7    15.8    15.8    15.9
Private Investment .                     8.7     5.9     6.9      8.8     7.3      7.9     7.8      8.1     8.7     9.2
Pt.I Ic Savins     .                     2.0    -0.5   -0.3       0.1    -5.2    -1.2      1.5      2.6     3.4     3.9
Governt Rensaus                         13.8    13.5    13.1    13.8    12.4    13.2    12.6    13.1    13.5    13.6
Gover t RevP s and arats                16.5    15.8    16.6    17.1    15.7    16.8    16.1    18.0    16.2    16.1
Garoent af1Iture                        21.2    23.9    21.8    21.1    24.2    22.4    19.2    18.3    17.4    16.7
Fiscal Deficit (Inc. grants)            -4.7    -8.0    -5.2    -4.0    -8.4    -5.7    -3.1    -2.3    -1.2    -0.6
Fiscal Deficit (excl. grants)           -7.4   -10.4    -8.7    -7.3   -11.7    -9.3    4.6    -5.2    -3.9   -3.1
Exteral sector
E- rt volume aroft rate                  17.8     1.5   -21.5      2.7    35.6    -8.3      4.5      4.5     4.7     4.8
Exports GWS/SP                           11.7     7.8     6.9      6.8     7.2      8.2     7.6      7.9     8.3     8.7
Import voluDwe rot rate                  8.0    -7.1    -0.1    -6.0   -11.1    12.8    -1.9        3.5      3.9     4.3
inots GFSSP                             21.2    19.4    18.1    17.4    17.3    22.6    19.5    19.0    18.7    18.5
Current Accoimt (mlIi. US$) (1)        -186.2  -252.9  -263.2  -232.7  -222.1  -280.4  -287.6  -270.9  -273.9  -278.3
Crrent Acwct/WP  (1)                    4-9.    -11.7   -11.3   -10.7   -10.5   -15.2   -12.4   -11.4   -10.5   -9.8
Gross Official Reserves (miII. US$)     182.1   163.9   118.0    70.1    44.2    80.1   101.4   124.7   139.1   152.9
(montho of imports)                      5.3     5.1     3.8      2.4     2.4      2.6     3.4      3.9     4.1     4.2
Net Offical Rleserves (MIII. US$)       144.6   134.4    97.8    54.1    -3.3    46.2    77.6   105.7   118.8   131.5
(Bmt   Of iparts)                        5.0     4.6     3.2      1.9    -0.1      1.5     2.5      3.1     3.2     3.3
1n  ird credit
lnestic credit                          -1.7    23.1    23.7    15.9    19.3       5.9     7.1      5.4     0.0    -1.1
Gbvernment                           -8.6   149.5    25.0    24.5    8 65.7    -4.8    -1.5    -4.7   -19.2   -27.7
Prrivate sectr                       -0.3    -0.3    23.1    11.9   -4.9    15.6    13.5    11.9    10.8          9.8
Money an *asi-Wy (112)                  13.6    10.3      7.4    -4.2     5.4    21.9    13.3       7.9     2.0     0.8
Interest rate (one-year savings deposits)    5.0   5.0     5.0      5.0    12.0    ..       ..
iscewl laneous
Inf latim rate, annual average          -8.9     6.0     2.6      4.6     8.7    28.0    12.0      5.0      4.0     4.0
Ferl effective e   ave rate             -9.2    -0.2      1.4    -0.8    -8.2    ..        ..
Ratio of Experts GslFSlncrts l8NFS       55.2    40.1    38.3    39.1    41.8    36.3    38.8    41.8    44.5    47.3
Sources: Data provided by the Rwandese authorities; and Furd and World Bank staff estimates and projectlons.
(1) Excluding offIclal grants



- 46 -
Annex D
Page 2 of 5
274Utr-i
Table 2    WAN
ENAL FINCING : REOJIROdTS AID SOUES
1988    1889    I390    1891    1892    1893    1994    1095
(In ofIII=u of US)
Exteral Finarelng Requirwms             -242.4  -213.6  -175.1  -54.9  -319.9  -318.9  -3.9  -315.4
crrent ADcoznt 0lCliodrg
not Official trawfers                -233.2  -232.7  -Z22.1  -280.4  -287.8  -270.9  -273.9  -278.3
Alwrtizatlcn                            -18.1   -19.3   -17.8   -20.4   -22.8   -23.9   -25.8   -23.8
ftw  In Arrears                          0.0     0.0      6.8    48.8     0.0
Cha*  In smvn                           38.9    38.3    57.9  -47.5   -29.5   -25.0   -10.2  -10.2
IIF RCSfdam                              0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   . 0.0
Total Fluin ing Requiresmnts         242.4   213.8   175.1   354.9   319.9   319.9   309.9   315.4
Dlstmeants : Existing Comitmnts          242.4   213.8   175.1    35.3    38.8    40.8   29.0   25.1
Grants                                  139.3   127.8   122.7
Loans                                   81.9    64.2    45.9    35.3    38.8    40.8    29.0   25.1
Bllateral Creditors                    19.1    17.4    11.3    11.7    11.2    12.8    7.0      5.8
lAltilateral Creditors                 82.8    48.8    34.6    23.8    27.8    28.3    21i.9   19.5
of which : World Bar*                31.0    32.0    24.5    13.2    11.4    18.4    13.5   12.5
Private Creditors                      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
SAF                                      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Direct Investment                       21.1    15.6    5.8       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0
Other Capitals n.e.l                     0.2     8.2      1.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Disbursements : ExpeWted New Conmnltmnts   0.0     0.0     0.0   209.7   243.8   243.5   248.8   251.2
Grants                                   0.0     0.0      0.0   121.9   138.3   130.3   132.8   138.4
Loans                                    0.0     0.0     0.0    69.7    78.3    88.9   100.5   107.8
Bilateral Creditors                     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.4     6.5    12.7    15.5
hultilateral Creditors                  0.0     0.0     0.0    69.7    77.8    82.4    87.8   12.1
of which : World Bank                 0.0     0.0     0.0    81.8    67.3    67.9   89.1    70.0
of which : Adjustment Lending      0.0     0.0     0.0    45.0    45.0    45.0    45.0   45.0
SAF                                      0.0     0.0      0.0    12.8    19.0    12.8    0.0      0.0
Direct Investment                        0.0     0.0      0.0     5.8    10.1    11.8    13.3    15.3
Other Capitals n.e.1                     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Identifled Financing               242.4   213.8   175.1   245.0   282.4   284.3   275.8   288.3
Speclal Program for Africa (SPA)         0.0     0.0     0.0   109.9    37.5    35.8    34.3   29.0
Sources: Data provided by the Rwandse authorities; and Fund and World Bank staff estimates and projeotlons.



- 47 -
Annex D
Page 3 of 5
Table 3
264brl91
Rwanda : Balance of Payments. 1987-95
(in mIIIons of US$)
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
4ET           PFrojections (1)
A. Exports of GootS & NFS        167.8   161.4   148.0   153.9   151.7   163.2   188.1   216.5   247.7
1. MerchandIse (FOB)           121.4   117.9   104.8   109.0   110.9   120.3   135.6   155.3   178.1
2. Non-factor services          46.4    43.6    43.2    44.8    40.8    42.9    52.6    61.2    69.6
B. Imports of Goods & NfS        418.4   421.0   379.0   368.1   417.8   420.6   452.2   486.0   523.3
1. Merchandise (FOB)           267.0   278.5   254.2   233.3   276.2   278.2   299.6   323.7   351.3
2. Non-factor 8ervIces         151.4   142.5   124.8   134.8   141.3   142.4   152.8   162.3   172.0
C. Resource Balance             -250.6  -259.6  -231.0  -214.2  -265.8  -257.4  -264.1  -289.5  -275.8
0. Net Factor Income              -9.9   -14.2    -9.9   -14.3   -22.1   -19.7   -19.0   -18.3   -18.5
1. Factor Receipts              10.0     8.3     8.9     3.8      5.0     7.4     9.6    12.0    13.6
2. Factor Payments             -19.9   -22.5   -18.8   -18.2   -28.2   -27.1   -28.8   -30.3  -32.1
(Interest payments)         -7.4    -9.4   -7.8    -9.8   -11.3  -11.2   -11.3   -11.4  -11.6
E. Net Current Transfers           7.5    10.8     8.2     6.5      7.8     9.5    12.2    13.9    15.7
1. Czrrent Receipts             28.8    32.2    27.5    28.6    29.2    32.0    35.8    38.3    41.0
a. total                      28.8    32.2    27.5    26.8    29.2.   32.0    35.6    38.3    41.0
b. other current transfers     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
2. Current Payments             21.3    21.8    19.3    20.0    21.8    22.5    23.4    24.3    25.3
F. Durrent Acc. Ba). (no grants)  -252.9  -283.2  -232.7  -222.1  -280.4  -267.8  -270.9  -273.9  -278.3
'. LoneTerm Capital Inflow       226.7   224.1   188.1   156.5   212.1   240.7   247.6   249.7   259.5
1. Direct Investment            17.5    21.1    15.6     5.6      5.8    10.1    11.8    13.3    15.3
2. Off lclal Capital Grants    118.6   139.3   127.6   122.7   121.9   138.3   130.3   132.8   138.4
3. Met ong Term Loans           89.9    63.0    45.5    28.3    84.8    94.3   105.8   103.8   105.8
a. DIsbursements             110.1    81.1    64.8    45.9   105.0   117.1   129.7   129.4   132.7
b. Repayments                 20.2    18.1    19.3    17.6    20.4    22.8    23.9    25.8    26.9
4. Other LT Infls (net)          0.7     0.8   -0.6       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
M. Total Oter Items (net)          7.8     0.2     6.2      1.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
1. Net Sort Term Capital        11.4   -2.2      4.9   -1.6       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
2. Capital Flowsn.e.l.           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
3. Errors andl0Osslons          -3.8     2.4     1.3      2.8     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
1. FlnancIng                      18.4    38.9    38.3    64.8  -41.5  -10.5   -12.2  -10.2  -10.2
1. Net Credit from the IMF       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    12.8    19.0    12.8      0.0     0.0
2. Net Reservsem l Oies         18.4    38.9    38.3    57.9  -47.5  -29.5   -25.0  -10.2  -10.2
3. Arrears                                                8.8    -6.6
J. FInamcing gap                                   0.0     0.0   109.9    37.5    35.6    34.3    29.0
Share Of GaP:
1. Resorce Balce                 -11.6%  -11.3  -10.6%  -10.1%  -14.4%  -11.9%  -11.1X  -10.4S   -9.7%
2. Current account defIlcIt
Excluding offIclal transfers  -11.7%  -11.3X  -10.7%  -10.4%  -15.2%  -12.4%  -11.4%  -10.5%   -9.8%
Includlng off Iclal transfers   -8.2Z   -5.3%   -4.8%   -4.7%   -8.6%    -.1%   -5.9%   -5.4%   -4.9%
irand    Items:
ap MP                           2157.8  2327.4  2178.8  2125.8  1847.8  2181.0  2380.3  2599.5  2835.5
wanda francsAlS$                 79.87   78.45   79.95   82.88  119.37  118.55  117.33  118.14  115.12
Sources: Data provided by the Randese AtOltles; and Fud and Wrd Bark staff estimates and projectIons.
(1) Asaming full I lementatlon of proposed program.



- 48 -
Annex D
Page 4 of 5
Sodal ndlcators of Devdopment, 1990                     Table  4
Rwanda
2S.30      15J20      c<R         S                     Ah
Ui w of        Yas        yws         iq S                                ee
mwo             t5          g         (iw)       Afin       hcu          ru
HUMA.N REORCES
Skie, owh awctue of pop4ulation
4rot     t (i199)                          mi".              3.f9       47                                            37.9
14 aphtroon    ~, ofpa.                          456        48O
15-64 &                                                    5'.0       49.4       49.3        5Q         6Q1         57.6
Agcedeten yro                              unit            0.92        L          LOS        098        045         07
Pea gc u uzbema                          %*                             4 28  45             33.1         .4        59.2
Feandes ir 100 maInr
Utban                                    ahlbe                .                     . ..  ..         ..
R fra. .                                                            .          ..              ..          _          ..
Poe gnwbuwsm3                                                                       3.3         .1         2.0        2.1
1u.X  157,  734       67         352         -5.6      3.0
Utbatutril gwi diffrtil                   di                  2.9        4.2        3.4         2.8        5.8        1.9
P  j'cd popaua: 200                       mi                  ..         ..      134          674       3A0          831
Stailo say populsaa                                            ..         ..      7Q007         ..          ..
Dete satsf wpoplalom gwth
C,udbinh tc                            pbo                 51.5       5l.7         36        467        29.8        30.0
Totalitility mm                       b perwa              7.54       7.96         .00       659        3.0        387
con      wprevalam d154                                                            6.0                  562
CaId (4) Iwans (15.49) rtsos
Ub                                    per 100 womn            ..                    ..         ..
Crude deah ma                          peraho.. pop.        17.2       19.7       17.8       1.          99         8.1
Idant moYtW  me                      pdxrit   lawMbmtu     1418       1410       11         17.         693         LU
(Indermnlm                                                                                  It , 11,   5, l6.       |
Life eapeciuncy at birtl overall            u              4.         410         49.0       51.        61.9       6.
fgansal                                 299        467°       5X7         2          62.7       67.6
Liabor force (1564
Tol bbor fa                                                  1.73       2.27       3.43        194       1,371       244
A.icuur                               adlaborf            94.2       93.2          -          - .
al                                                         s4         4IS         47J        37.i       35.9       3Qi
Faiuaes per 100mal
Urben                                    awmber               .. .                  ..         -
PstiCipdulOn MEw: o l.1                                                 521        493        413         493        3a8
fans.                          *53.3                     50.9       467         30i4       35.0       226
EACdu*OrA AlUalMUaeart flbor fore.
Sdaod yer cw*lewd: over    .                                   ..         -          ..  
m. ..                                      ..         -          ..             . . -
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     thu o.sq. bin      2634       2634       2634      23,066      36,997     21.068
Dad4 A361    36.09
Acent.fwa                                 %of                  .- .                490        563                    63.
Usbn                                        *..                         ..      74ao          w.7         7.       7
Rural                                                                             as.4.0     2.                     46.8
PPoulatio  grwt                             Infantmorutalt                        Priam"r scbool enrolment
4 
o                                          o0
-r        m*7         -                    -*        0U1b         -                    a~b          tb7_
ERsi   .L



- 49-
Annex D
Page 5 of 5
Sodal Indicators of Dlevdepmr.t, 190
Rwanda
23.30     15-20      MSs 
(Ina of    PM*       ymM       "Ib"0     Sa           LOW.
AoWE            a85       49        (we)       Abi        ncsm      8nup
INCOME AND POVERT
GNPpa cow (mu G 1989)                      US$              40         90        320       330        330       1320
Tobabhodi io
Sham w top  % of _baseb        4f                           ..        ..        ..
Shm&t0920%ohn.bid                                           ..        ..        ......
Sbmtob' 40%oh                                              ..         .
Shwe tobanmn20%   ofha u ad $                               ..................................  ..  ..   .   ..
Po"
Abs       h    d     p pwiMyIncm   a   USSp  pa             ..        ..                    .
. u       .      .                       .. .. .
P*i: tofp _ub  p*-W                      %  *-o
PrevaharC l"lWuflAm (Widrs)            %   wvv         _
EXOWRE
Food                                    %ofGDP               ..         _       23.1
Oakms4     kdCbees p                               -                  *-        .0*
Csi.     s                             ai.muict am           3         17        1 1      8,274    27.738
POWd Maimeeuls                                                       9 10        8      3796       712        76
Food pwodeciMi perosaw                 197941-100          76.y      9.6        719        2          7.8      79.9
Share of agitouhum                       % oDP             74.8      49.2       365        33.7      32.8       15.2
B      Pu1sh$                            its psrper$      1.660     1,070      1,786     2,01I0     234        2,741
ispapni            5         S          9         48         56        77
Ro #                                       aDP                                  12 8 ..  .. .8
Anagbsdaldn ibousbold                                                       ..         ..         ..
Ud an                                                      _          ..        ..          ....
uodinvazmzhg                               )OD(             ..         _         3.1
Fkndelpo                                   AO(GP                                 SI  5.2     _                    .
kg   deqidaa ul g     7.        223       41.7      10ss       323.8     843.7
TtSal _eed k- %                               M                         ..    10,000         _         .
P uladmpertdqiaww                        psa                        1.453       670          _                   17
INVKSThIEsIN UUM CAPTAL
Msdlla                                    otfGDP             _         ..        33          .
urns.                           *              451        f       7.                    1          1.5 .
eod                                             ..                  600          _                    ..
Aoossobdtohetu                          Ik£lpap.             -                    .. 60.0
men                                  ..        ..48 0.7                      4          65.21
OmlRAdy Ibsoupym(mdsde)                   of GU$                        _       50.0       I.4       21.6       27 5
ESom"                                   %dtGDP               _         _         2.9         _
pdwmr. wa                         %dic"-apgroup            0        56        64.0       668       10,43     102.0
temsio    ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ 30                510        6.        69.7       94.7      tllt 
l  *           2.0       2.0        6          I         37.2      5n
1.1X2     280        5' 4
T _ _tdaysd"            .       114       21.2
Pqd4mAmud:,pdmv                       papAbper.s            67        5          57         41        21 9
komew                             I~~~~~1 I3 is                  33         18         I'
%.dcalwi                     688       81.2       764        67.8
% 1oifltwdlhnu        213       21.1       12.8   4     .                   U 
1*ofap(e1t)                               5.         53.4       43.4       25 4
~a1g                     V.f6aea t(gS)            _                  67.3      64.0       S6.5       Ila
NEwaq_wdmm                             pe    pp              ..        ..        Ql        5         2Q4 0
Sm~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-50-                                  Annex E
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(March 31, 1991)
Loan or                                                         Amount In USS Million
Credit     Year                                              ------------------------------
number    Signed       Borrower                                Bank    IDA (1)  Undisbursed
Twenty three credits fully disbursed'                                    232.22 (1),(2)
1283     1983 GOVT OF RWANDA    Bugesara & Gisaka Migongo             16.30      0.53
1546     1985 GOVT OF RWANDA   Agricultural Research                  11.50      3.98
1565     1985 GOVT OF RWANDA    Technical Assistance                   4.80      3.42
1641     1986 MIN. PUBLIC WORKS Sixth Highways                        11.00      3.15
1650     1986 GOVT IBRD         Fourth BRD                             9.00      3.63
1669     1986 GOVT OF RWANDA    Gitarama Agric Dev.                   12.70      4.48
1678     1986 REP. OF RWANDA    Family Health                         10.80      9.62
1683     1986 REP. OF RWANDA    Third Education                       15.60     11.41
1783     1987 REP. OF RWANDA    Second Water Supply                   15.00      8.23
1796     1987 REP. OF RWANDA    Sectoral Pre-Investment Studies        7.40      7.35
1811     1987 REP. OF RWANDA    Second Integrated Forestry            14.10     11.24
A008-1    1988 MIN. PUBLIC WORKS Sixth Highways Supplement (SFA)       10.00     10.82
2026     1989 REP. OF RWANDA    Agricultural Services                 19.90     19.92
2041     1989 REP. OF RWANDA    Urban Institution Sector Dev.         32.00     32.10
2113     1990 REP. OF RWANDA    Public Enterprise Reform               4.40      4.50
2136     1990 REP. OF RWANDA    Transport Sector                      40.00     42.04
**  2189     1991 REP. OF RWANDA    Second Communication                  12.80     12.03
Subtotal 17 active projqctas             0.00    247.30    188.45
Total original principal s                    0.00    479.52 (2)
of which cancellations                     0.00      4.56
repayments                       0.00       5.44
Total outstanding mnel. undisburseds          0.00    469.52 (3)
Amount sold s                                 0.00       4.38
of which has been repaid                   0.00      4.38
Total now due to Bank and IDA (1) :           0.00    332.46 (3)
Total undisbursed t                           0.00    188.45 (3)
** Not yet effective.
(1) US$ amounts are computed at rate of negotiations dates for Original Principals,
whereas the current rate is applied to the Undisbursed Amounts.
(2) Include cancellation of USS 4.56M and regional Project Rusiui II of US$ 14.89M.
(3) Because of the depreciation of the US$ w.r.t. the SDR (i) it is possible that the
Undisbursed amount is higher than the Original amount, and (it) the sum of Total
now held bj IDA and Bank, and Total Undisbursed, is higher than Total outstanding.



- 51 -
Annex E
Page 2 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
B. STATE!ENT OF IFC INVESThENTS IN RWANDA EXPRESSED IN US$
----------------------------_---------------------------
(March 31, 1991)
Amount
Investment                                                -------------------------
Number     Year       Obligor         Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
337-RW     1975  Sorwathe        Tea processing              0.53               0.53
and marketing
470-RW    1979  Sorwathe                                     0.23     0.06      0.29
764-RW    1985  Sorwathe                                     0.29              0.29
1028-RW    1988  Sorwal           Manufacturing              t*)       0.20     0.20
Total Gross Commitments t                  1.05    0.26       1.31
Less * Cancellations, termination,
exchange adjustments, repayments,
write-offs, and sales               1.05    0.06       1.11
Total comuitments held by IFC              0.00    0.20       0.20
Total undisbursed                          0.00    0.00       0.00
Total disbursed                            0.00    0.20       0.20
---------------------------Loan---g-arantee---of------2.1-----------pro_--ded__by------
(*) Loan guarantee of US$ 2.1 million provided by IFC.



- 52 -
AMEE f
BANK ASSISTANCE TO DATE
1.         The Sankts priasry focus in its operations in Rwanda to date has been an sector and project
lending fn support of the Governent's public Investment progra; on appropriate but limfted polfcy reforms
through sector lending (without qufck-disbursing assistance); and on mcro and sectoral policy dialogue
through economic nd sector work. Since 1970, Rwanda has received 3B IDA Credfts for a total amount of
479.52 millton, cnd two Special African Facility Credits (C2 million) for the 6th Highway Credit. Rwanda
has also benefitted from three loans from IFC and two equity participations.  Lndinr g=atf   have
financed: (a) Infrastructure development (47 percent), particularly road construction am maintenance;
(b) agricultural and rural development (29 percent), with particular emphases on farmirn systems rsearch,
Improving extension services and input supply, nd reforestation; Cc) human resources development (9
percent), especilly In primary education, preventive health services and family plamnng; (d) development
of local energy sources and energy conservation (S percent); (e) devevopment of smalt and mdi.u enterprises
(8 percent); through support to the Development Bank (RD), and (f) technical assfstance (2 percent).  To
dote, there has been no lending for structural adjustment.
2.         The current nortfotio includes 17 IDA Credits. Disbursement performance has also been slow
(anmual d1sbursesents have averaged about $30 million in FY88-90 and about 40 percent of the total
comitments remain undisbursed). Portftolio performance has been mixed. In aome cases, project
fiplementation I. affected by weak management and institutions, lengthy ratification procedures ihfch detay
effectiveness of Credits, inappropriate budgetary practices for counterpart funds, and cuTbersome
procurement procedures.
RUANDA: Distribution of Lending, FY7I-91
(USS #illion)
Sector                   Amout                               No. of Proiocts
Infrastructure           225.5                 47.0K                15
Road                 105.2                 21.98                 9
Transport             40.0                  8.3K                 1
Telecom               20.3                  4.2K                 2
Urban                 32.0                  6.7X                 1
water Supply          28.0                  5.8K                 2
Agriculture               138.9                29.0X                 11
Agriculture          103.8                 71.6K                 2
Forestry              35.1                  7.36                 2
Human Resources           44.4                  9.3K                 4
Educatfon             33.6                  7.C                  3
Health                10.8                  2.3K                 1
Energy                    24.0                  5.0%                 2
Finances & Industry       37.0                  7.7X                 6
finances              25.2                  5.3X                 4
Industry              11.8                 2.5K                  2
Technical Assistance       9.8                  2.0X                 2
.......              .......       .      .. ------.... 
TOTAL                    479.5                 100.0X               40
3.         The Sank's program has been pursued In a climate of generally good relations with the Governent.
In all sectors in which the Bank Is active, despite the inplementation problems mentioned above  there
exists a general receptivity to sank's advice on seetoral development issues.  In agriculture I mproved
sector management a8 well as more rigorous project planning and financial controls have been attained, with
a shift away from integrated rural development schemes towards more direetly productive projects and the
strengthening of institutional linkages between central goverrment and local levels.  in the highways
setore thenidialogue with the Ministry of public Works and EnergY is focused en developing a national road
maintenance capacity.  In industry  the Goverrment is coamitted to promote smell-scale enterprises and has
started to focus on the rehabilitation and restructuring needs of some of the public and mixed nterprises.
In the education and health sectors  cost and financing analyses by the Governrmnt constitute the basis for
designing future IDA lending.



2130y                              2f300  o
RWANDA
UGAN DtA                        /
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I                                                                                                                             TANZANIA
t s * ,omtt ~~~~~~~~Z A I R E 9
* NATIONAL CAPiTAL                                                                                                                      PR
()PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                                      Bug
-MAIN ROADS
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                      G'
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                        .      GlS
TANZANTA
\   Kibuye  t|f T                                                                           IJG               .\
2Pt       f,                                                                                                                      98. d GIKONKONGORC).
[<t| Cyang-loSSAEg Oikohg |
,8URUNDI\<rBtr                                                                                                              
_   TANZANIA                                                                  R                )J(~;~
ZAIRE
iMOaj ZAMB+ Z                                                                                          A I RUE  tKiLOMETRS 0  5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50  -_             -
-,   a   A |,UOBIKQUE                                                                                                                                                                   t2       ,,,,,_ 
_ >1 . . . \ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MttES 0    5   10  is  20   25  30 |
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-                                                                           do                                  -



2f-                              20'1V                            20930
RWANDA
UGANDA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN I                                                                                                                      T A N Z A N I A
*   NAMONAL CAPrTAL 4.
(j  PREFECTURE CAP.TALS
-MAIN ROADS
COMMUNE BOUNDAR7ES                    G     jd"
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
-      INTERNATIONAL 8OUNDARIES                            G S
'Af/,';:An   \*9
-25bo \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kibuyel  IA / lK JG \2
_ 73=30' r v Dt s ~~GIKONGORC )2 
UGACyA gENYgu C                                                         CYkotgoro
gRWANDA     X                                   ;< KE;A                                          RE
B8URUNDI                           |             <                 t             (  Butetre                      BURUNDI
TANZANIA
ZAIR
to 0 || ~~~~Z    A                 I R   E < °5 r    °     - t= 
Ki\LOMBTES 0   S    tO 15  20 2i4530-
E .                                                                                                                            ;O ZA M  ,



