Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14873
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT NO. 2271-RW)
JULY 19, 1995
Country Operations Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = RF (Rwandese Franc)
1988:  US$1.00       =       RF 77
1989:  US$1.00       =       RF 80
1990:  US$1.00       =       RF 83
1991:  US$1.00       =       RF 125
1992:  US$1.00               RF 132
1993:  US$1.00       =       RF 144
1994:  US$1 00       =       RF 134
1995:  US$1.00       =       RF 260
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CER                          Caisse d'Epargne Rwandaise
ERC                          Emergencv Recovery Credit
ELECTROGAZ                   Etablissement Public de Production de Transport et de
Distribution de l'Eau. d'Electricite et de Gaz
FPR                          Front Patriotique Rwandais
GDP                          Gross Domestic Product
IMF                          International Monetary Fund
IDA                          International Development Association
PIP                          Public Investmenlt Program
RF                           Rwandesc Franc
RWANDATEL                    Rwanda Telecommlunications
RWANTEXCO                    Rwandese Textile Company
SAC                          Structural Adjustmcnt Credit
SAF                          Structural Adjustment Facility
SAP                          Structural Adjustment Program
SDR                          Special Drawiing Rights
USD/US$                      United States Dollar
SOGEA                        Societe Generale d'Eau et d'Assainissement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............................................................                                                                                                       vi
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................................                                                                                            ii
Introduction ............................................................                                                                                           ii
Analysis of Credit Objectives .............................................................                                                                         j
Activities and Results ............................................................                                                                                 ii
Supervision  and   Monitoring .............................................................11i
L EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ...........................................................2
A. Justification and Objectives of the Credit ...........................................................2
B.  Assessment of the Objectives ...........................................................2
IL EVALUATION OF ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES ...............................................                                                                          2
A.  Recommended Measures                                                    ..........................................................2
B.  Achievement of Specific Objectives ...........................................................3
1.  International Competitiveness of the Economy ...........................................................3
2.  Reducing  the Role of the  State ..........................................................4
3.  Effective Public Resource Management ..........................................................5
a. Public Finances ...........................................................5
b. Money and Credit ...........................................................6
c. Civil Service Reform   ..........................................................6
4. Promotion  of Private Enterprise ...........................................................6
a. Liberalization  of the Labor Market ...........................................................6
b. Elimination  of Constraints on Prices, Profits, and  New  Businesses ................................................7
5.  Social and  Environmental Actions ..........................................................7
C.  Results and  Analysis of the Measures ...........................................................8
1.  Conditions for Releasing  the First Tranche ..........................................................8
2.  Conditions for Releasing  the Second  Tranche ...........................................................8
3. Other Measures ...........................................................9
D.  Assessment of Results in  Terms of the Main  Objectives                                        9..........................................................9
IIL ANALYSIS OF FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT .................... .................... 10
A.  Factors under the  Control of the Authorities                                          .......................................................... 10
B.  Factors Beyond  the Control of the Authorities ..........................................................                                                     10
IV. SUSTAINABILITY  OF RESULTS ..........................................................                                                                             10
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT .                                                                                    .......................................... 11
VL  FUTURE OPERATIONS .......................................................... 12
VIL MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................................................                                                                         12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART IL STATISTICAL INFORMATION .................................1
Table 1:      Summary Evaluation
Table 2:      Bank Credits
Table 3:      Project Timetable
Table 4:      Disbursements: Estimated and Actual Totals
Table 5:      Key Project Implementation Indicators
Table 7:      Project Studies
Table 8:      Project Costs
Table 9:      Status of Compliance with Credit Agreements
Table 10:     Compliance with Guidelines in the Operations Manual
Table 11:     Bank Resources: Contribution of staffs
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Missions
ANNEXES
A. Mission Aide-Memoire
B. Miscellaneous: Other annexes
C. Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT 2271-RW
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC I) for Rwanda (SDR67.5 million, equivalent to US$90 million) which was approved on
June 7, 1991 and became effective on October 7, 1991. The credit was closed on December 31,
1994, twelve months later than the original closing date. IDA funds were scheduled to be
disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche, in the amount of US$55 million, was fully released
upon effectiveness and disbursed gradually up to 1993. The remainder, i.e., US$35 million, was
canceled because Rwanda failed to meet the conditions for the release of the second tranche. The
civil war was partly to blame for the cancellation.
Total financing associated with this credit amounted to the equivalent of US$126 million.
In addition to SAC I, cofinancing was provided by Switzerland (SwF 10 million or US$7.5
million) and Belgium (BF400 million, or US$18.8 million). Joint or coordinated financing was
extended by the African Development Bank for US$15.6 million, the European Development Fund
for US$18.8 million, France for US$13.2 million, Austria for US$6.2 million, Germany for
US$16 million, the United States for US$20 million, and Canada for US$10 million. The IMF
granted Rwanda access to its Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF).
This completion report was prepared by Mr. Sourou Joseph Attin under the supervision of
Mr. Michael N. Sarris, Chief of the Country Operations Division in the Central Africa and Indian.
Ocean Department. It was reviewed by Mr. Hari Prasad, Operations Adviser at AF3. The
borrower and the cofinanciers did not provide written comments but some of their oral comments
on the draft ICR are reflected in the mission's aide-m@moire and the final version of the ICR.
The preparation of this ICR started with a field mission in April 1995. The first draft was
discussed with the authorities of Rwanda at that time. This final version was based on information
contained in project files and takes into account comments from the Rwandese Government and
other donors.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT 2271-RW
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Rwanda is a landlocked country in central Africa covering 26,000 km2. Its population
(7.8 million in early 1994) is made up of two major ethnic groups, the Tutsis and the Hutus.
Between 1959 and 1973, the country experienced repeated ethnic conflict, which forced a large
part of the population into exile in neighboring countries. A civil war triggered in 1990 by exiles
seeking to return to Rwanda led in March 1991 to a cease-fire and a fragile power-sharing
agreement brokered by international mediators, and underpinned by political reforms aimed at
democratization and national reconciliation. These reforms started well, with a new constitution
submitted to the parliament in April 1991, and free elections scheduled before the end of the year.
T'he political transition, however, stalled, and was irremediably derailed in April 1994 by renewed
violence, culminating in the massacre of up to one million people, the exodus of two million
refugees to neighboring countries, and the internal displacement of another one million people. A
new Government led by the victorious former exiles was formed in July 1994.
2.    During the 1960s and 1970s, Rwanda's economic performance was above average for
sub-Saharan Africa. Prudent economic and financial policies, limited Government intervention,
and generous foreign aid on concessional terms resulted in sustained growth in per capita income
and low indebtedness.  Unfortunately, during the second half of the 1980s the authorities
responded to deteriorating terms of trade, mainly due to declining coffee prices, by stepping up
control over the economy. This eroded Rwanda's competitiveness and caused a steady drop in per
capita income. In 1987, faced with a crisis, the Government initiated talks with the Bretton
Woods institutions on a Structural Adjustment Program (SAP). A Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) was negotiated in September 1990. The President of Rwanda traveled to Washington in
October 1990 to assure the Bretton Woods institutions of his personal commitment and his
Government's intention to implement the SAP. Appraisal of the program, originally scheduled for
October 1990, was delayed by the outbreak of the civil war. Despite the war, the Govermment
demonstrated its commitment to reform by starting to implement the SAP, thanks to a relatively
competent administration.
3.    The SAP was consistent with the World Bank's assistance strategy for Rwanda, which
called for a return to sustainable and equitable growth. It stressed economic stabilization,
improved management of public resources, creation of conditions conducive to developing private
enterprise, and diversification of output and exports. In the longer run, the SAP sought to



ii
improve income distribution and protect the environment. The SAP was supported by a first IDA
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) and by an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF)
arrangement. Two sector adjustment credits were also under preparation in the financial sector
(US$44 million) and agriculture (US$40 million).
Analysis of Credit Objectives
4.     The SAC I supported the first stage of the SAP, i.e., the reform agenda of the PFP for
1991-93. The scope of policy reforms and specific targets were commensurate with the depth of
Rwanda's economic crisis, prompted by a civil war which had exposed the fragility of an economy
already weakened by inappropriate policies and a difficult external economic environment. The
main objectives of the PFP were to stabilize the economy, increase its competitiveness, and
improve public resource allocation, to lay the ground for sustained private-sector based, export-
led growth and an improvement in the standard of living of the Rwandese people. These
objectives were expressed in specific measures and quantitative targets.
Activities and Results
5.     The specific measures supported by SAC I included seven conditionalities for releasing
the second credit tranche. Their implementation was only partial due to the war, and their
sustainability has been affected by the change in Government.
-      Restoration of external competitiveness. The Rwandese franc was devalued in SDR
terms by 40% in 1990 and by 15% in mid-1992. The exchange system and imports were
liberalized. However, the fall in export prices and the decline in output because of the war
prevented exporters from taking advantage of the more competitive exchange rate. The balance of
payments improved in 1991, partly as a result of quick-disbursing support to the adjustment
program, and as imports contracted under the combined impact of devaluation and war. By 1993,
however, external reserves (four months of imports in 1991) were entirely depleted and Rwanda
accumulated foreign payment arrears amounting to US$30 million, because of lax fiscal
management, falling terms of trade, and the suspension of financing from some donors who were
waiting for an end to the hostilities. As a result, the Government reinstated exchange controls.
*      Improved public resource management. The PFP aimed to reduce the fiscal deficit,
improve public investment management, and reform the parapublic sector. Fiscal mobilization
measures were implemented for the most part, although their yield fell short of objectives because
of the decline in economic activity due to the war. Total revenue increased by 15%, or 2.4% of
GDP in 1991, and by 8%, or 1.2% of GDP in 1992. On the expenditure side, the civil war and
the decline in world export prices, especially for coffee, prevented the authorities from making
anticipated cuts in public expenditures such as transfers to the coffee sector or military spending,
and led to unforeseen outlays for assistance to persons displaced by the war. The implementation
of the "rolling" three-year Public Investment Program (PIP) introduced in 1992 in accordance
with criteria agreed with the Bank was disrupted by the hostilities. The Government increased the
use of indirect monetary policy instruments while abolishing direct monetary controls.  It
liberalized interest rates, with the exception of the maximum lending rate, which was increased.
This added to the burden of interest paid by the Government on the internal debt, and increased
public finance difficulties. The Government had identified even before the start of the SAC I



iii
program 86 public enterprises to be privatized, liquidated or reorganized. During the program
it took measures to reorganize and rehabilitate 12 enterprises, and revised the legal framework
to increase the management autonomy and responsibility of managers of public enterprises. In the
energy sector, it increased power tariffs (although this failed to stabilize the financial position of
ELECTROGAZ). Finally, it presented to the Bank a proposal for civil service reform in 1993.
This proposal was deemed unsatisfactory because it did not follow PFP recommendations, was
too vague, and did not provide for any significant action.
*      Incentives for the private sector. In 1991-92, the Government removed numerous
constraints to private enterprise: it discontinued controls on prices and profit margins with the
exception of public monopolies (water, electricity, and telecommunications); abrogated prior
authorizations required to set up businesses; abolished regulations governing hiring of workers;
eliminated the International Transport Authorization and the Departure Authorization Paper;
eased requirements for establishing international transport companies; deregulated subcontracts
with foreign road transport companies; and liberalized international shipping rates.
*      Social and environmental measures.  None of the recommended measures was
implemented, except for the incorporation of a social safety net in the budget.
Supervision and Monitoring
6.     Both the Bank and the Government invested the resources and time needed to prepare,
implement, and monitor the adjustment program. The Government established a National
Committee to monitor the SAP, took important up-front actions, and made a genuine effort to
implement follow-up measures. There were five SAC supervision missions to Rwanda from June
1991 to October 1993, or more than one mission every six months, for a total of 38 staff-weeks.
Disbursement procedures for the first credit tranche were observed up to 1993. However, some of
the SAC I conditions were not satisfied, largely due to the war. Certain donors suspended their
contributions to the program because it was not being implemented as planned. The release of the
SAC I second tranche was delayed for a year before being canceled at the end of December 1994,
when the magnitude of the political and social crisis quashed any hopes that the stipulated
conditions could be satisfied.
Sustainability of Results and Future Operations
7.    A substantial part of the reforms supported by the SAC I is still valid today despite
failure to complete the reform agenda, and notwithstanding the profound degradation of Rwanda's
economic and social situation. The SAC I helped: (i) introduce exchange rate management
consistent with economic competitiveness and balance of payment requirements; (ii) initiate
restructuring of the public productive sector; (iii) start eliminating the constraints and controls
which inhibited private investment; and (iv) set up a more efficient tax and customs system. If the
new Government confirms its intention to pursue these reforms, the unfinished SAC agenda could
be restored. The country's new leadership appears to support economic reform. During the first
half of 1995 the Government issued a policy statement on the reconstruction of Rwanda which
expresses commitment to liberal economic policies and a reduced role of the State in the economy,
resumed the reorganization of public enterprises, devalued the currency, and introduced a flexible



iv
exchange rate system. However, successful economic reform hinges on the active pursuit of a
policy of national reconciliation and peace, the return of refugees and displaced persons, and the
reintegration of both "old" and "new" exiles into the administration and the army.
Lessons and Conclusions
8.    The SAC I got off to a good start and the reform agenda it supported remains largely
valid. Its objectives, however, were not met because of the devastating impact of the civil war on
Rwanda's economic, political, and social environment, and the authorities' failure to associate the
people with the program. This led to opposition to measures such as the ones intended to increase
fiscal resource mobilization (e.g., the national solidarity tax on wages which was rejected by
workers, and the increase in tobacco taxes which was voted down by the National Assembly).
Two of the seven conditions for the release of the second tranche were not met.
9.    The Bank's decision to proceed with the SAC I despite political uncertainty was based on
a careful risk assessment, and was motivated by the strong commitment of the Government to
reform and bold up-front political and economic reforms, and the urgent need to alleviate the
country's economic and social difficulties. Until the unexpected explosion of ethnic violence in
April 1994, this decision was vindicated by the country's ability to absorb the substantial financial
support which donors were prepared to extend on highly concessional terms, and take advantage
of the reforms undertaken under the adjustment program. The outbreak of hostilities derailed
important SAC I activities to expand and sustain the reforms undertaken, such as, for example,
making the population aware of the need for and objectives of the adjustment program, and
accelerating parapublic sector, civil service, and tax administration reform.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT 2271-RW
PART I: EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
A. Justification and Objectives of the Credit
1.    The decision to submit the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) to the Executive
Directors despite political uncertainty was based on: (i) the Government's manifest commitment
to reform, validated by important up-front policy decisions and actions, and confirmed personally
by the President of the country during a visit to Washington in October 1990; (ii) the encouraging
prospects for a peaceful settlement of the civil war, political liberalization and national
reconciliation, owing to the successful intemational mediation of a cease-fire and a power-sharing
agreement in March 1991, the submission of a new Constitution to the Parliament in April 1991,
and expectations for free elections before end-1991; (iii) the need for urgent measures to arrest the
rapid deterioration of the country's economic and social situation; (iv) the strong support of the
donor community and the IMF to political and economic reform; and (v) the importance that the
Govemment attached to the leadership role of the Bank in maintaining a strong presence of the
donor community in Rwanda during difficult times.
2.     The main objective of the credit was to support the Govenmment's Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) aimed at restoring macroeconomic and financial equilibrium, enhancing economic
competitiveness, and creating the conditions for sustained growth and poverty reduction. The
SAC I intended to help create an enabling investment environment based on economic
liberalization, a reduced role of the State, and the more efficient allocation of public resources.
The credit was to lay the foundation for economic recovery by promoting output and exports
growth and diversification, and thus to lead the country on the path of sustained economic growth
and human resource development.
B. Assessment of the Objectives
3.     The general goals of the SAP were expressed in specific measures and quantified targets
under a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1991-93, as follows: accelerate economic growth
from less than 2% in 1990 to 3.7% in 1992 and over 4% p.a. as of 1993; reduce the budget
deficit from 11.7% of GDP in 1990 to 6.6% in 1992 and 5% of GDP by 1993; reduce
inflation from 19% in 1991 to 12% in 1992 and then to 5% a year from 1993 on; improve



2
the balance of payments by generating a current account surplus as of 1991, and increasing
foreign currency reserves from the equivalent of 0.8 months of imports in 1990 to 2.5 months in
1992 and 3 months in 1993; and stabilize the volume of investments at 15.8% of GDP over the
period. These admittedly ambitious targets were commensurate with the extent of the crisis
confronting the country. Rwanda chronic economic difficulties due to inappropriate past policies
and adverse terms of trade had been abruptly aggravated by the 1990 civil war. The agreements
reached in 1991 by the Government and the rebel Front Patriotique Rwandais (FPR) on power-
sharing, political reform and national reconciliation improved the prospects for lasting peace, the
main condition for economic reform.
4.     The SAC I meshed well with the SAP. Moreover, its specific objectives were supported
by other operations: (i) the IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) to monitor the exchange
rate system, fiscal reform, and macroeconomic stabilization; (ii) additional quick-disbursing IDA
credits to support the reform of the banking sector (Financial Sector Adjustment Program), and
coffee sector liberalization (Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program); and (iii) extensive
cofinancing or parallel financing extended by the African Development Bank (AfDB), the
European Development Fund (EDF), Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Switzerland,
and the United States.
II. EVALUATION OF ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES
A. Recommended Measures
5.     The SAP envisaged twelve key areas of reform, eight of which became specific
conditionalities for SAC I. Of these, one was a condition for effectiveness and the release of the
first tranche, and seven were conditions for releasing the second tranche. The main risks were
linked to the war, and the need to promote changes in attitudes. Government ownership of the
program was strong, and was manifest in its participation in design, implementation of reforms,
and monitoring. A National Committee was set up by the Government to coordinate and monitor
SAP reforms.
6.     The only condition for releasing the first tranche was the liberalization of the legal and
regulatory framework for the private sector. Second tranche release was conditioned on a
satisfactory evaluation by the Bank of seven specific measures to be taken by the Government: (i)
implementation of the second phase of the tariff reform; (ii) agreement on financial performance
objectives for ELECTROGAZ and a timetable for increasing power tariffs to meet long-ran
marginal investment costs; (iii) implementation of a nondiscriminatory system for allocating
foreign exchange based on a liberalized import system; (iv) adoption of a three-year "rolling"
Public Investment Program ( PIP) for 1991-93 and of an agreed budget for 1991; (v) adoption of
a plan of action for reforming labor market legislation; (vi) implementation of civil service reform;
and (vii) liberalization of the coffee sector by introducing an export reference price system for the
purpose of repatriating export receipts, and elimination of subsidies to the Coffee Equalization
Fund.
7.     The SAC I also supported other SAP reforms, notably: (i) fiscal reform to make the tax
system more effective and efficient; (ii) establishing and maintaining a competitive exchange rate;
(iii) restructuring of public enterprises; and (iv) protecting vulnerable groups, combating poverty,



3
and putting in place a safety net and an environmental action plan. These reforms, however, were
not specific tranche release conditionalities. The first two were monitored by the IMF under the
SAF, while the other two were part of the longer-term reform agenda.
B. Achievement of Specific Objectives
1. International Competitiveness of the Economy
8.     Objectives and Measures.   The main reforms concerned the introduction of a
competitive exchange rate, import liberalization, and the liberalization of the exchange system.
The Government was to devalue the Rwandese franc to restore balance of payments equilibrium
and enhance external competitiveness, and to liberalize the imports and exchange system to make
the economy more dynamic and efficient. The SAC was expected to help finance foreign
exchange needs during the transition period.
9.    Implementation and Impact. Imports and foreign exchange allocation were liberalized
in 1991. The Rwandese franc was devalued in terms of the SDR by 40% in 1990 and by 15% in
June 1992, to make the exchange rate competitive again. These measures, added to the effects of
the war, led to a reduction of imports of consumer goods by 25% in 1992; without the emergency
aid these imports would have declined by 32.5%. This allowed Rwanda to liberalize imports,
ensure free access to foreign exchange, and maintain a relatively high volume of food imports
linked to emergency aid in 1992, while containing imports of consumer goods 13% below
the SAC I target. One of the main goals of the SAP, i.e., to reduce demand, was achieved in this
way. However, between 1991 and 1993, only 36% of the export objectives were realized, on
average. During 1991 and 1992, a 48.5% drop in the world price for coffee, Rwanda's major
export (50% of total exports) upset the positive impact of the Rwandese franc devaluation on the
volume and profitability of exports.
10.    Beginning in 1991, the disappointing performance of exports aggravated Rwanda's
extemal position. The current account deficit of the balance of payments, instead of declining as a
ratio of GDP as projected under the SAP, increased steadily, from 9.6% of GDP in 1990 to 16%
in 1991, 20.4% in 1992, and 24.6% in 1993. The overall balance of payments showed a surplus
in 1991 of US$87 million, attributable, however, to donor support under the SAP rather than to an
improvement in the economic situation. Net foreign reserves increased from US$22 million in
1990 to US$109 million in 1991, or from 0.8 to 4 months of imports. This performance, which
exceeded the SAP objective, allowed the Government to accelerate the liberalization of foreign
payments in 1992. Unfortunately, this good performance was reversed by the fall in world coffee
prices and inadequate foreign financing as SAP implementation deteriorated. Only US$48.6
million were disbursed in 1992, half the US$97.8 million amount disbursed in 1991, because the
conditions for implementing the SAP were no longer being met, and the Government took too long
to account for the use of funds already disbursed. In May 1993, extemal financing of the program
was entirely suspended because of these problems.



4
2. Reducing the Role of the State
11.    Objectives and Measures. The SAP envisaged reducing the role of the Government
and public enterprises in the economy, improving the legal and institutional framework of public
enterprises, and bolstering their efficiency. The policy of gradual reduction in the role of the State
was to be pursued through the privatization of certain public enterprises, rehabilitation of
enterprises considered economically viable and expected to remain in the public sector, and finally
liquidation of public enterprises that were not viable. This restructuring of public enterprises
aimed to improve the Government's financial position, by selling all or part of the Government's
shares in enterprises to be privatized, curtailing or even discontinuing budget subsidies to
parastatals, and taxing privatized or reorganized firms, expected to become better mnanaged and
more profitable. In the coffee sector, the Government planned to eliminate budget subsidies and
sell its shares to private investors, to reduce the burden of this sector on the Government budget,
and increase efficiency and output. In the energy sector, the authorities planned a 50% increase in
power tariffs, to improve the critical financial situation of ELECTROGAZ and reduce budget
subsidies.
12.    Implementation and Impact The authorities prepared in 1991 a list of 86 public
enterprises to be privatized, liquidated, or reorganized, and decided to irnplement rapid measures
for 12 enterprises. Some important measures were implemented: (i) in the financial sector, the
Government announced the liquidation of the Caisse d'Epargne Rwandaise (CER) in 1992; (ii) in
the energy sector, electricity rates were raised by 50% in 1992. However, the operating deficit of
ELECTROGAZ continued to grow because of failure to contain wage increases, and due to the
rising debt burden stemming from bad investments, and inability to collect fees from subscribers.
The authorities decided to overhaul the enterprise completely by splitting it into a public
corporation responsible for managing the current assets of ELECTROGAZ, and a private
company responsible for the technical, operational, financial, and commercial management of the
facilities in this subsector. Following international competitive bidding, the SOGEAIDENYS/SPE
company was selected on March 22, 1993 to carry out this operation; (iii) in May 1992, the
Government decided to sell the Rwandese National Printing Company and the Rwanda Paper
Company, and all of its shares in RWANTEXCO and SONATUBE, the ITUZE tourist village,
and the KIYOVU and REGINA hotels; (iv) also in 1992, the Government drew up a legal
framework granting managers of parastatals increased autonomy and responsibility; (v) on
January 7, 1993, a semi-public telecommunications company, RWANDATEL, with the
Government holding only 26% of the stock in the long run, was established. These measures
made some public enterprises more efficient and more competitive. The Goverrnment failed,
however, to implement measures to liberalize the coffee sector.  It continued to assume
responsibility for marketing coffee and to grant subsidies which accounted for nearly half of
export receipts in 1992. The rationale was Rwanda's precarious social and political situation.
Full liberalization of producer prices for coffee would have led to a 35-45% decline given
prevailing world market prices, a risk the authorities were not ready to take in rural areas
vulnerable to a rebel take over. They continued instead to subsidize the Coffee Equalization Fund
to preserve the purchasing power of farmers. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program under
preparation was meant to assist the reform effort in this sector.



5
3. Effective Public Resource Management
a. Public Finances
13.    Objectives and Measures. The SAP aimed to reduce the budget deficit from 11.7% of
GDP in 1990 to 5% of GDP in 1993 through a combination of improved fiscal mobilization and
lower Government spending. On the revenue side, the Government planned to: (i) set up an
efficient tax system and correct major tariff distortions by lowering the maximum rates of customs
duties from 250% to 100% in 1991; (ii) raise taxes and assessments; and (iii) eliminate customs
exemptions. To reduce Government spending, the authorities intended to implement a budget
austerity policy, abolishing subsidies and reducing Government costs. Finally, the SAP planned
to strengthen programming and management of public finance through strict macroeconomic
policies, an annually updated "rolling" Public Investment Program (PIP), and the provision of an
adequate social safety net in the Govemment's budget.
14.    Implementation and Impact. The Govemment implemented most of the measures to
increase fiscal revenue, except for the temporary national solidarity tax on wages, which was
rejected by wage-eamers, who instead demanded a wage increase. Other measures to raise taxes,
eliminate virtually all customs exemptions, and improve the tax administration were implemented.
Specific measures included expansion of the tax base for the tumover tax and an increase in its
rate schedule; higher specific taxes on oil, beer, and cigarettes; elimination of past exemptions
from import duties and interdiction of new exemptions; an increase in minimum import duty from
0% to 10%; and higher public utility rates and shipping or transport charges. To reduce fiscal
evasion, the marginal tax rate on wages was lowered from 80% to 50%. Following these
measures, revenue collected from the tumover tax increased 2.36 times in 1991, and non tax
revenue increased by 17.5%. Customs receipts also increased considerably, by 50% in 1991 and
by 13% in 1992, under the combined impact of the devaluation and elimination of customs
exemptions. These receipts would have increased even more if importers had not cut back their
activities because of domestic security concems. Total budget revenue excluding grants grew
from RF 22 billion in 1990 to RF 26 billion in 1993. Despite this good performance, the
Govermnent lost substantial revenue from 1991 to 1992 because poorly organized and equipped
tax administration. In 1994, tax collection stopped after the April events, and only RF 7 billion in
revenue was mobilized.
15.    Despite the relatively good fiscal mobilization performance, the authorities failed to meet
overall budgetary targets, and improve the quality of Government expenditure, including the
management of public investment. Increased Govermnent spending in 1992-93 more than upset
the improved revenue performance, and led to budget deficits twice the size projected under the
PFP, respectively, 18% of GDP in 1992 and 19% in 1993. The three-year PIP introduced in 1992
with donors' support was not implemented because of the war. The inability of the Govenmment to
contain current spending prevented it from reducing domestic debt as anticipated, and led to the
accumulation of additional payment arrears of RF 20 billion. The Govemrnment resorted also to
special advances from the Central Bank, amounting to over RF 9 billion in 1992. Higher
Govermnent spending was essentially due to: (i) the increase in military spending, from 1.9% of
GDP in 1989 to 7.8% of GDP in 1992; (ii) subsidies to the coffee sector, to the tune of 46% of
export receipts in 1992; and (iii) the elimination of preferential rates for Treasury notes Central
Bank advances to the Government, which increased, respectively, from 5-7% in 1989 to 12-15%



6
in 1991-92, and from 3% to 14% in 1991 and 11% in 1992. The budgetary impact of higher
interest rates was amplified by the rapid increase in the domestic public debt, from 15.4% of GDP
in 1989 to 21.9% of GDP in 1992; interest on domestic public debt reached 13% of current
nonmilitary expenditures in 1992. By June 1992, the Government's budget was badly off-track.
In consultation with the IMF and the Bank, the authorities took some steps to contain the fiscal
slippage, by increasing the excise tax on beer by 15%, and raising power tariffs by 50% and
public transportation fares by 20%.
b.    Money and Credit
16.     Objectives and Measures. The key objectives were to curb inflation from 14% in 1991
to 5% in 1993, increase savings, step up competition among banks, and extend more credit to the
private sector. The measures recommended to achieve these objectives involved reorganizing
financial institutions and improving the mobilization and allocation of resources.
17.     Implementation and Impact. Over the 1990-1992 period, the Government increased its
reliance on indirect monetary policy instruments to improve domestic demand management, and
abolished direct monetary control instruments such as ceilings on lending and banks' use of the
rediscount facility. To put the banking system on more solid ground, the Central Bank law and
the banking law were revised to include strict measures to reinforce bank controls and the
establishment of sufficient reserves to cover bad debts. The authorities liberalized interest rates,
except for the maximum lending rate, originally  set at 7%   in 1989, then  increased  to
17% in 1990, and  rolled back to 15% in mid-1992. The minimum borrowing rate or the rate
of interest on 12-month deposits was reduced from 12% in 1990 to 9% in 1992, and the
rediscount rate declined from 14% to 11%. However, new lending rates remained reiatively high.
In March 1992, the Central Bank asked deposit institutions to raise their reserves from 1% to 5%
of demand deposits, while the rate applied to other deposits remained unchanged at 1 %.
C.     Civil Service Reform
18.     The reform objective was to increase the efficiency of public administration by
improving the structure, operations and management of the civil service, and by better integrating
the functions of the various departments of the administration. Specific measures should have: (i)
improved the circulation of information among Government offices; (ii) established hiring
procedures and criteria; and (iii) defined a civil service career program for the national
Government. Reform proposals were prepared by the Government and submitted to the Bank in
November 1993. They were deemed to be out of tune with the objectives of the reform, too vague,
and failing to provide for immediate action under the SAP.
4. Promotion of Private Enterprise
a.     Liberalization of the Labor Market
19.     Objectives and Measures. The main objective of labor market reform was to allow
private enterprises to adjust the volume and skills of their staff to their needs. Specific measures
included the elimination of the requirement that private enterprise hiring be done from a list drawn
up by the Government, and the elimination of the constraints on mobility of labor.



7
20.    Implementation and Impact. The requirement to base private enterprise hiring on
personnel lists drawn up by the Government was eliminated. The authorities also carried out a
labor market study which issued recommendations on improving the mobility of labor and
reducing market distortions leading to relatively high industrial wages. These recommendations
were never implemented.
b.    Elimination of Constraints on Prices, Profits, and New Businesses
21.     Objectives and Measures. The key objective of the reform was to restore market laws
and competition, in an effort to promote private investment.  Specific measures included
liberalizing prices and profit margins, eliminating obstacles to creating new businesses, and
liberalizing international transport.
22.     Implementation and Impact. The controls applied to profit margins were abolished in
1990, except for water, electricity, and telecommunications. Price controls were discontinued for
most products, with the notable exception of petroleum products at the pump, minimum prices
for producers of coffee, tea, wheat, rice, sugar cane, and pyrethrum, and the fee for public medical
consultations. The prior authorizations required from the Minister of Industry to create a
business, and from the Minister of Trade to register a firm, were both eliminated.  The
Govermment took important steps to liberalize international transport by eliminating the
Intemational Transport Authorization and the Departure Authorization Paper, easing conditions
for creating intemational transport companies, deregulating subcontracting with foreign road
transport companies, and decontrolling intemational shipping fees.
23.     Despite these reforms, supply response lagged.  A study on competition in the
manufacturing sector indicated that policy reforms had reduced effective protection rates in the
sector and improved its efficiency. Reforms, especially the devaluation, provided an important
incentive to expanding and developing small and medium-sized businesses using local raw
materials. However, some manufacturing enterprises, especially import substituting firms using
large quantities of imported raw materials, were not profitable, and others were threatened by
unfair competition from products smuggled into the country.  Security problems hampered
production, imports, and investment.
5. Social and Environmental Actions
24.     Objectives and Measures. The measures envisaged under the SAP included protection
for the most vulnerable groups, incorporating a social safety net into the Govemment budget, and
implementing an environmental action plan. A social action program was drawn up with the
assistance of the Bank.  Specific activities contemplated under this program included free
education benefits for the poorest, implementation of a labor-intensive public works program
involving construction of rural roads and measures to fight soil erosion, setting up a program to
develop small businesses, and creation of a food security program for the drought-afflicted
population and of a fund for redeploying redundant public sector workers. To monitor the
program effectively, a household survey was planned with the help of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP). Several IDA-financed projects were envisaged to support
population control, protection of the environment, and promotion of women.



8
25.    Implementation and Impact. With the exception of the safety net in the Government
budget, none of the above measures were implemented.  The war created new priorities,
especially: (i) the reintegration of over 900,000 former exiles and displaced persons (which
entailed a reallocation of land and property); and (ii) the integration and training of a new army
19,000 strong men. The absorption of about one million peop e was particularly difficult given
the already high population density (295 inhabitants per km ), shortage of land, and serious
environmental problems; and (iii) growing malnutrition and incidence of AIDS. lIn 1991, over
500,000 Rwandese suffered from malnutrition, and nearly one out of every five adults tested HIV-
positive.
C. Results and Analysis of the Measures
1. Conditions for Releasing the First Tranche
26.     The release of the first credit tranche was conditioned on the revision of the legal and
regulatory framework governing the private sector, the removal of institutional and administrative
obstacles to promoting and developing private enterprise, and the liberalization of domestic trade.
The Government fulfilled these requirements by simplifying procedures for starting up new
businesses and eliminating price and profit margin controls, as described in the previous chapter.
2. Conditions for Releasing the Second Tranche
27.    (a) Conditions implemented as agreed: (i) reform of the customs tariff system to make
it more effective; and (ii) performance criteria including a timetable for raising electricity tariffs
applied by ELECTROGAZ. Although these conditions were fulfilled, additional steps would have
been needed to attain the reform objectives. The new customs system could have produced better
results with more effective organization and by upgrading staff and equipment. In the energy
sector, the Government was expected to privatize the technical and business management of the
company in March 1993.
28.    (b) Conditions implemented in part or with delays: (i) liberalization of foreign
exchange allocation and foreign trade; (ii) setting up of effective public expenditure programming
consistent with macroeconomic guidelines and a credible PIP; and (iii) reform of labor market
legislation. Imports and the foreign exchange allocation system were liberalized during the first
two years of the program. Under the combined impact of devaluation, generous donor assistance
to the SAP, and reduced imports because of the war, the balance of payments improved in 1991,
and demand for foreign exchange was met in full. Further liberalization measures were not
pursued and the Government was late in accounting for the use of funds from previous
disbursements under the adjustment program. Exchange controls were reinstated in 1993. As
regards public expenditure programming, a macroeconomic policy paper was drafted, but the PIP
preparation encountered major delays, and its implementation was halted by the war. The labor
market was liberalized, but the authorities did not implement the action plan recommended by the
sector study.



9
29.     (c) Conditions not fulfilled: (i) civil service reform; and (ii) liberalization of coffee
sector prices on the basis of world market prices, and elimination of budget subsidies to coffee
producers. The implementation of these reforms was made impossible by Rwanda's political
situation. Preparatory work for civil service reform was completed in 1993 but was overtaken by
events: following the power-sharing Arusha agreements with the FPR, the Government was
expected to integrate civilian and military members of the FPR into the Government and the army.
As a result, civil service employment criteria and procedures had to be redefined. As for the
coffee sector, price liberalization as world market prices were depressed would have resulted in a
35-40% reduction in producer prices, and the proportional reduction of purchasing power in rural
areas, an untenable proposition on political and security grounds.
3. Other Measures
30.     (a) Measures implemented as designed:  The Government implemented several
measures recommended under the SAP but which were not conditions for the release of the SAC.
They included: (i) preparing tax reform to make the tax system more effective and efficient; (ii)
restructuring public enterprises; and (iii) establishing and maintaining a competitive exchange
rate.
31.     (b) Measures partially implemented: the SAP envisaged measures to protect
vulnerable groups, alleviate poverty, draw up an environmental action plan, and create a social
safety net. The only measure implemented was the provision for a social safety net in the 1992
budget.
D. Assessment of Results in Terms of the Main Objectives
32.     Objectives fully achieved. The Government took effective action to restore the external
competitiveness of the economy. reduce aggregate demand, and create incentives for private
investment. The currency was devalued, imports were reduced, and a study conducted in 1992
indicated that firms in the industrial sector, especially those that relied heavily on local raw
materials, were operating competitively and efficiently once again. The expected supply response,
however, did not materialize because of the civil war.
33.     Objectives partially achieved.  Macroeconomic stabilization objectives focused on
reducing balance of payments and fiscal deficits, and ensuring a rational use of resources.
External imbalances were greatly reduced. During the first year of the program, the balance of
payments improved, as imports contracted and external financing of the SAP was considerable.
The net foreign reserve position improved significantly, from 0.8 months of imports in 1990 to 4
months of imports in 1991. Export objectives, however, were not achieved, and export revenue
actually declined as a result of the deteriorating terms of trade and the war. The external current
deficit increased from 9.6% of GDP in 1990 to 16% in 1991, 20.4% in 1992, and 24.6% of GDP
in 1993.  Domestic imbalances grew.  The fiscal deficit worsened despite an increase in
Government revenue over the first two vears of the program, because of the sharp rise in
Government spending, primarily for expenditures related to the conflict and subsidies to coffee
growers.
34.     Objectives not achieved. The progranm failed to achieve economic recovery, increase
per capita income, and diversify and expand private investment and exports. Economic growth,



10
per capita income, and export growth rates actually declined. Over the 1991-93 period, per capita
GDP declined by 5.5% p.a. and private per capita consumption by 4% a year on average; the
volume of exports declined by 6%, and GDP contracted by 3% p.a. on average. Private investors'
confidence was undermined by security concerns, partial implementation of reforms, and the
fragile macroeconomic environment.
III. ANALYSIS OF FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT
A. Factors under the Control of the Authorities
35.     The main obstacle to implementing the program was political. Implementation of the
peace agreements with the Front Patriotique Rwandais and the democratization process moved
very slowly. The delays in the political reforms held back the economic reforms, especially
reduction in military spending; reduction in the Government's role and administrative reform, and
reorganization of the tax administration. In addition, this slowed down the proper justification of
the use of the proceeds of the credit.
36.     Political concems took precedence over economic problems. The war effort prompted
the Government to increase substantially spending, well beyond the fiscal targets agreed under the
SAP. Though partly beyond the Government's control, the increase in military spending was
probably exacerbated by lack of transparency and abuse. Other measures, notably the reform of
the tax administration and civil service reform, were held hostage by protracted debates in the
National Assembly. The reorganization of the customs administration to reduce fraud was slow to
materialize. Delays in drawing up an updated macroeconomic policy and a credible PIP also
slowed down implementation of the program. The PIP was not ready until 1992, while the credit
had been effective since 1991, and was not implemented. Government officials in charge of
reform were not motivated, and lack of incentives triggered a great deal of administrative turnover.
Finally, poor management of the credit delayed justification of its use, and slowed down
disbursements.
B. Factors Beyond the Control of the Authorities
37.     The factors beyond Government control were the war and the deterioration in the terms
of trade. As a result of the civil war, nearly two million persons were displaced in 1990 and 1994,
the socio-economic infrastructure was destroyed, economic activity dropped sharply, and private
investors' confidence could not be restored. Farm production declined greatly or was even
discontinued in some regions, and many traders reduced or closed their businesses. The sudden
contraction in economic activities undermined anticipated tax revenue and growth targets. The
deterioration in the terms of trade entailed a decline in export proceeds and created balance of
payments difficulties which hindered trade and payments liberalization. The drop in world coffee
prices at a time when the social situation was critical prevented the Government from eliminating
subsidies to the Coffee Equalization Fund.
IV. SUSTAINABILITY OF RESULTS
38.     Many of the reforms supported by the SAC are still valid despite the partial
implementation of the program and the acute social and economic crisis of the country. The
program was successful in the following: (i) adjustment of the exchange rate to make the



11
economy more competitive and maintain extemal balances; (ii) a start to reorganizing the
productive public sector; (iii) elimination of constraints and controls that discourage private
investment; and (iv) establishment of a more effective tax and customs system. The current
authorities have indicated their support of these reforms, by proceeding with another devaluation
of the Rwandese franc, setting up a flexible exchange rate system, and announcing their intention
to pursue other economic liberalization and privatization measures. The high tumover among
civil servants and the shortage of qualified personnel in the Government administration as a result
of the war point to the need to build national management capacity with emergency technical
assistance and for a program to train Government workers, in addition to special incentives to
stabilize the civil service.
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT
39.     The Bank. The Bank devoted the time and resources needed to prepare and implement
the SAC. Preparation began in October 1987 and negotiations were initiated in May 1991. The
Bank carried out four missions for preparation and appraisal, five supervision missions and one
completion mission. Once the credit was approved, appropriate disbursement procedures were
observed for the first tranche of US$55 million, which was disbursed from October 1991 to
September 1993. The Bank's decision to submit the credit to the Board of Directors and release
the first tranche was based on a thorough evaluation of the risks involved in supporting the
national reconciliation effort, and on the fact that the Government had fulfilled the requirements
for the credit and disbursement of the first tranche.
40.     Disbursements were suspended in December 1993 due to delays in implementing the
program. The outbreak of the civil war in April 1994 compromised further implementation of the
SAC. The cancellation of the second tranche was postponed until December 1994 for two main
reasons: after fighting stopped and an RPF-led Government came to power in July 1994, the new
administration needed time to consolidate and was not in a position to take important economic
decisions; the credit had already been suspended; and since the closing date was scheduled for
December 31, 1994, there was little or no risk involved in waiting until that date.
41.     The Bank asked the Rwandese Governnent to justify the use of the special accounts
funds, and it carried out several missions to determine the undisbursed balance and the
expenditures made before and after April 6, 1994 (the date the civil war broke out), identify
substantiating documents, and reach an agreement with the authorities on the settlement of the
accounts.
42.     The Government. The Government negotiated a PFP for 1991-1993 with the Bank and
the Fund in 1991 and set up a National Committee to monitor the Structural Adjustment Program.
It made genuine major efforts -- especially in 1991 -- to reduce domestic and external financial
imbalances, eliminate distortions hampering export growth and diversification, and introduce
market-based mechanisms for resource allocation. The authorities met in full two of the seven
conditions for releasing the second tranche, and fulfilled in part three others.
43.     The Government's main lapse in implementing the SAP was failure to mobilize political
and popular support for reform. In the beginning, the Rwandese authorities even publicly denied
any intention of considering an adjustment program, and kept talks with the Bretton Woods
institutions secret until the agreements were actually concluded. The SAP was not sufficiently



12
understood by the Rwandese people and by all the agents responsible for implementing it. The
authorities underestimated the pressure of social, economic, and political interest groups of
workers, entrepreneurs, and especially in the National Assembly. For example, measures aimed at
improving public finance, such as the solidarity tax on wages and the tobacco tax, were contested
and voted down by the people and by the National Assembly in 1992. In 1993, workers sent a
petition demanding not only that the Government put an end to staff cuts, part of its policy to
rehabilitate public enterprises, but also that it proceed with a 100% wage increase. A rational and
economically viable PIP was only belatedly adopted.  All these pressures explain the
Government's ambiguous attitude about pursuing economic reform, which slowed down program
execution and forced most donors, including the Bank, to suspend disbursements in 1993.
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS
44.     The immediate priorities of Rwanda are to restore peace, foster the return of refugees
and national reconciliation, and relocate refugees and displaced persons to their homes. On the
economic front, restoring production -- especially in agriculture -- and basic education, health, and
public infrastructure, must be accompanied by urgent actions to assist the most vulnerable groups,
especially single parent families and orphans (an estimated 30% of households in certain areas of
Rwanda are headed by single women). IDA extended in August 1994 an Emergency Assistance
Grant in the amount of US$20 million, which has already been released, declared effective in July
1995 the US$50 million Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) approved last January, and is
restructuring the existing portfolio, which can mobilize about US$200 million in undisbursed
funds.
45.     Future operations hinge on the uncertainties clouding the future political and social
situation, and especially the return of refugees, and power-sharing between the two main ethnic
groups. Once the reconciliation and political stabilization process are well under way, the Bank
could develop other types of assistance programs that would be less demanding than the SAC and
that would be geared to improving the standard of living of the Rwandese people and rebuilding
national productive and institutional capacities. Policy-based quick disbursing operations may be
needed to support sector reforms in areas such as financial intermediation, privatization of State-
ownmed enterprises, or coffee sector liberalization.
VII. MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS
46.     The Rwanda experience highlighted the risk of implementing structural adjustment
programs in times of war. The civil war interfered with implementation of this credit in Rwanda
in three ways. First, the restoration of macroeconomic equilibrium required a policy of budget
austerity, which proved to be incompatible with the increased spending resulting from the
perceived and actual risk of hostilities. Second, as the war was prolonged, economic operators
and donors alike felt that the risks had become too great, and many of them cut back their
activities considerably or halted them altogether. Outside financing of the SAP was less than
expected because the conditions needed to pursue the program were not fulfilled. Third, the
change in regime and in the balance of power made it impossible to ensure the sustainability of the
program.
47.     The SAC experience in Rwanda also demonstrated that assessing the risks is no
guarantee of successful implementation. The Bank was well aware of the risks it was running



13
during these particularly difficult times, to the point that it even asked to associate RPF
representatives in the negotiation of the SAC.  Its decision to support the Government in
proceeding with the adjustment program, and help mobilize donor assistance for it was prompted
by the obvious commitment of the Government's to reform, including significant up-front actions,
the broad donor support to the reform program, and the increasingly critical economic and social
situation of the country. With hindsight, this decision may be questioned. At that time, however,
it was consistent with the Bank's analysis, and with the position of the IMF and other partners of
Rwanda that were supporting the SAP. Both the Government of Rwanda and its external partners
were firmly convinced that the country was at a turning point in its history, and that the real
progress made in political and economic reforms deserved taking some risks.
48.     The SAC had a pragmatic design, its specific conditionalities were realistic, and a
number of sectoral activities were planned to deepen the reform in critical areas. The IMF
assumed responsibility for crucial stabilization and macroeconomic management policies, and
other sources had put in place the financing needed for the program to be a success. The sudden
and unexpected outbreak of civil war in April 1994 dashed these hopes and expectations. These
events, which had not been predicted by any national or foreign observers, derailed economic
recovery efforts and undermined the sustainability of SAC results. If the political reconciliation
process had continued as expected, the SAC would have had a better chance to succeed.
49.     An assessment of the activities undertaken during the first two years of the program
indicates some positive results, especially the improvements in the internal and external
competitiveness of the economy, the liberalization of trade and prices, demand management, and
mobilization of tax receipts and exchange reserves. The results of the program could have been
even better if the Government had made the necessary efforts to build broader political and
popular support for reform. That would have made it possible to reduce opposition to the reforms
and to gain the support of socio-economic groups essential for implementation of the program.
The deterioration in the terms of trade, in particular the drop in world coffee prices, was a major
handicap to the program's success in general, and to the implementation of reform measures in the
coffee sector in particular. Finally, the weakness of technical and administrative arrangements to
implement and monitor reform measures had an adverse effect on the application and effectiveness
of tax measures. For example, fiscal mobilization measures were weakened by tax fraud because
of the tax administration's technical and physical problems. In fact, the tax and customs reforms
were not immediately followed by administrative and technical arrangements to enforce the
measures effectively, and this led to losses in tax receipts and worsened the budget deficit.
50.     At a more general level, one could question the very philosophy of the adjustment
program, and whether even if implemented faithfully it could have produced credible results in
terms of economic growth and poverty alleviation. The SAC I was conceived and designed at a
time when the Bank's experience with adjustment was evolving, and the premises of a quasi-
automatic supply response to a standard package of demand management and incentive
framework measures were hardly ever questioned. If the Bank were to consider a similar
operation nowadays, it would be placed in the explicit context of a long-term "vision" of the
country's development potential and constraints.






PART II. STATISTICAL INFORMATION






Table: 1 -Summary of Assessments
(A) Achievement of Objectives              Substantial         Partial         Neghigible       negligibl
Macroeconomic Policies                                         x
Sector Policies                                                            I                 Lxr]
Financial Objectives                     _            I    C                                t_______
Institutional Development                                                   L                  m     z
Physical Objectives         C             J                                 [    x          [
Poverty Reduction                                                   7 L r 1                         i]
Gender Issues
Other Social Objectives                 lE  I            r                  r    x   ,      - 
Environmental Objectives                                                       x r  l E___ [ -_
Public Sector Management                j           l     r                                 r
Pnvate Sector Development                     -  _          _x              L                _______
Other (specify)                                   F1 <__                    F  =            C  
(B) Proiect Sustainability                   Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
~m EXIf rI I
Highly
(C) Bank Performance                       Satisfactoty      Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                            = r  x -_          FI 
Preparation Assistance                                        X                =IZ
Appraisal                                                                   I
Supervision                                                    x
Highly
(D) Borrower Performance                   Satisfacto        Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                               C         |                       |    x X
Implementation                          I    I        I I   [       I      |     x     |
Covenant Compliance                      ll  Lix                            [Ill
Operation (ifapplicable)                 r        J      11 11r1
Highly                                              Highly
(E) Assessment of Outcome                  Satisfactory      Satisfactory     Unsabsfactory    Unsatisfactor
II    XIII  [11x1111E



Table:2 -Related IDA Credits \1
[_   Credit       T   Credit  |            r~~~~~_ _ __CreditZAJmt. |  Date of PDate o Ef- |Date of|l
|  Tidle        | Number  I  (US$ mil.)V Purpose        Approval   fectiveness    Closing       Status
[Preceding operations              na          na           na          na           na          na      na
I-none-
Following operations
SAL II                           na           na          na           na           na          na           na
Table: 3 -Project Timetable
Date                  Date actual
Steps in Project Cycle                Planned \2           (or latest estimate)
Identification                                  Oct-87                   Oct-87
Preparation                                    May-91                   May:91
Appraisal                                       Jan-91                   Jan-91
Negotiations                                   M    1-91
Letter of Development Policy                   May-91                   Ma-91
Board                                           Jun-91                   Jun-91
Signing                                         Jun-91                   Jun-91
Effectiveness                                  10/7/91                  10/7/91
First Tranche                                   Oct-91                   Oct-91
Second Tranche                                  4/i                     na
Project completion                             6/30/93                  na
Credit closing                                 2/31/93                 12/31/94
\2 As provided in the President's Report.



Table: 4 -Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative. Estimated and Actual
FY __               FY      Total
1991      1992      1993 Disbursements
Appraisal estimate               55        35                        90
in millions of US $
Actual disbursement              33     12.02      10.12             55
in millions of US $                          l
Actual as % of estimate     59.75%    34.34%       xx           61.11%
Date of final disbursement  9/30/93
CY        CY        CY       Total
_          _       _         ~1991       1992      1993 Disbursements
Actual disbursement           36.51     49.87      61.11          61.11
(cumulative in %)                    _        l
Actual disbursement              33        45        55            55.0
(cumulative in million $)
Date of final disbursement  9/30/93



Table: 5 -Key Indicators
11989   1      1990      1       1991             1992             1993
Actual lplanned I Actual lplanned I Actual lplanned I Actual lplanned I Actual
(in percent unless Indicated otherwise)
Real growth rate:
Grs  oetcProduct (GDP)                 -.4       tot     418      1.00     0.71    3.70     0.67     3.80    -9.96
Gross Domestic Income (GOY)                    -        4.00    4.5       2.10    1.4      3.80    0.71     4.00    -9.50
Real per capita growth rate:
Gross Domestic Product                          -3.32            4.72             -1.95            -2.26     0.30   -12.57
Total consumption                               -3.5             4.69             -0.621           421              -9.11
Private consumption                             -4.68   -12.20    -7.29    -2.70    -6.27  0.10   -11.16     0.20    -2.13
Debt and Debt Service (LT+IMF+ST):
Total DOD (USS mil)                              599.0            686.0            769.0             60400            836.00
DOD / GOP                                         24.12    28.00    43.77    28.30    43 64    27.40    53.85    28.20    56.78
Debt service (USS mil) 1/                         26.22    27.10    20.59    31.70    25.10    34.00    24.29    35.20  6.17
Debt service / Exports                            16.44            13.11             16.79            19.92             5.17
Debt service / GDP                                 1.09    17 70    0.8    20.90      1.49    20.90    1.48    18.70    0.41
Interest burden (LT+IMF.ST)
Interest paid (US) mul)                           12.61            10.97             12.17            12.73             31
Interest I Exports                                 7.91             6.92             8.14             10.4I             2.66
Interest I GDP                                     0.52             0.47             0.72              0.79             0.21
Gross Investment I GOP                            13.4    12.50    11.4    15.90    11.4    15.80    13.9    15.60    14.9
ICOR (5 years ending year shown)                  14.2             86.21            42.01             -4.34            -0.81
Domestic Savings I GDP                             129      3.90    -1.12    S.00    4.19     6.30    -8.49    6.20    4.70
BOP Resource Balance O GDP                       -11.16           -12.96           -16.58            -20.42           -24.61
National Savings / GDP                             2.19    3.40    -1.3      2.20   -4 6      4.80    -5.93    6.00    -9.23
BOP Current Account Balance / GDP                -11.24   -10.50   -13.2   -15.20   -15.99   -12.40   -19.87  -11.40   -2414
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                    78.10            47.70           169.19              3.              25.14
Marginal Natlonal Savings Rate                    74.64            50.11           125.17             65.9             2e.82
Government Investment / GDP                        5.37    12.40    5.09    15.80     6.2    15.70     6.76    15.80    7.80
Government Savings I GDP                           3.2    -5.20    -147    -1.20    0.o       1.50    -0.6      2.60    0.2
Private Investment/ GDP                            7.9      7.30    7.56     7.90    6.8      7.80     7.57    8.10    7.99
Pr/vate Savings / GDP                             -1 03             0.08            -4 6              -5.29            -9.46
Current ExpendtturesJGDP                          1120             16.e8             17.00            20.93            20.19
Capital Expenditures/GDP                          rS6.34            6.68             7.96              9.19            10.9
Overall Budget defict / GDP (Excl. grants)        4.98   -11.70   -11.2     4.30   -13.11    4.60   -17.50    4.20   -19.1
Overall Budget deficit i GDP (Incl. grants) 2/    4.12    4.40    4.11    -8.70    -7.96    4.10    4.64    -2.30   -10.79
Prlmarr deficit I GDP                             -2.06            -7.00             4.62             -7.4             -7.94
Consumer Prices, growth rate 3/                    1.05             4.17             19.60             9.6             12 36
GDP Deflabor growth rate                           5.30             3.07             10.11             2.77             9 58
Reai Exchange Rate Index (1687=1o0)              100.6             96.07         1  87.66             6249             62.97
Terms of Trade Index (1987-100)                  102.13            90.78            63.0             56.90             75.19
Exports GNFS, volume growth rate 4/                5.14    2 70    19.4       30    -501      4.50     0.1-128
ExportscGNFS/GDP                                   6.14     7.20    6.53     6.20    8.45     7.60     6.91    7.90     7.47
Imports GNFS, volume grovth rate 4/               4.22   -11.10    0.42    12.80    43.2    -1.90      2.9    3.60    11.72
Imports GNFS / GDP                                17.29    17.20    19.4    22.60    25.05    19.50   27.33    19.00    32.09
BOP Current Account Balance (USS mil) 5/        -270.80  -222.10  -304.80  -280.40  -269.80  -267 60  -325.4  -270.90  -360.0
Net reserves (USS mil)                            78.74    -3 30    22.7    46.20   101.4    77 60    70.3   105.70    38.60
Net reserves (in months of imports)                2.20    -0.10    0.8      1.50    2.76     2.0      2 07    3.10    0.99
Gross reserves (in months ol imports)              2.75     2.40    1 9      2.60    42       3.40     311      3.90    2 08
Exchange Rate                                     77.6    80.00   121.1 2   25.00   119.    132.00   1462    144.00   1463
1/ Actual service paid after rescheduling.
21 Including interest on rescheduling agreements.
3/ Private consumption deflator (National Accounts).
4/ National accounts.
5/ Excluding official grants.



Table:7 -Proiect Studies
Studies             Purpose as defined       Status             Impact
at appraisal/redefined                      of the study
1.Etude de la competitivite des entreprises       completed        na
2. Etude sur le marche du travail                 completed         na
3. Etude sur le secteur agricole                  completed         na
4. Etude aupres des menages                       not completed     na



Table: 8.a1 -Proiect Costs- IDA funds
Appraisal estimate       Actual (or latest estimate)
(USS milion)               (USS million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs              costs    costs
Item
Eligible Imports           _____31.35    31.35
Petrol & Food Stuff              _                   _               9.33     9.33
Special Accounts                                     _              14.32    14.32
Total Base Cost  J             90.00    90.00              55.00    55.00
Table: 8.a.2 -Proiect Costs-Other Donors funds
Appraisal estimate       Actual (or latest estimate)
(ISS million)              (USS million)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs              costs    costs
Item
Eligible Imports  
Petrol & Food Stuff                                   _
Special Accounts_
Total Base Cost               126.40   126.40 _            137.20   137.20
Table: 8.b.1 -Project Financins (eroup of donors)
Appraisal estinate       Actual (or latest estimate)
(USS mil)                   (USS mil)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs              costs    costs
Groups of donors
1. IDA                         0.00    90.00    90.00      0.00    55.00    55.00
2. Government contribution     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
4. Other bilateral             0.00    92.00    92.00       0.00   108.20   108.20
5. Other multilateral          0.00    34.40    34.40       0.00    29.00    29.00
TOTAL          0.00|  216.401 216.40        0.00   192.20   192.201
Table 8b :-2
Table: 8.b.2 -Protect Financine (detail)
Appraisal estirnate      Actual (or latest estimate)
CU(SS mil)                 (USS mil)
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
costs    costs              costs    costs
Donors
L.IDA                          0.00    90.00    90.00      0.00    55.001   55.00
2. Suisse                      0.00      7.50     7.501    0.00 L    7.501    7.50
3. Begigue                     0.00    18.80    18.80      0.00    18.30    18.30
4. BAD                         0.00    15.60    15.60       0.00     7.80      7.80
5.FED                          0.00    18.80    18.80      0.00    21.20    21.20
6. France                      0.00    13.20    13.20       0.00    13.20    13.20
7. Autriche                    0.00      6.20     6.20     0.00      6.20     6.20
8. Allemagne                   0.00    16.00    16.00      0.00    10.00    10.00
9. USA                         0.00    20.00    20.00      0.00    25.00    25.00
10. Canada                     0.00    10.30    10.30     0.00    10.30    10.30
11. Auther donors              0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00 l   17.70    17.70
Total Base Cost   [    0.00   216.40   216.40      0.00   192.20   192.20



Table: 9 -Status of Le2al Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant    Present   Fulfillment Fulfillment Description
Agreement         Section     Type        Status      Date       Date   of Covenant Comments
3.01        9     Complied with     -          -     Reporting
3.02        3     Complied with     -          -     procurement
3.03        1     Complied with     -          -     Account
Table: 10 -ComDiance with ODerational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                   Describe and comment on lack of compliance    comments
Complied with Operational Manual Statements



Table: 11 -Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stage of                               Planned                 Revised                   Actual
project cycle                     Weeks        US$         Weeks          US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal                  127.725    171,938            115.6   140,000         115.6   140,000
Appraisal-Board                     39.075     52,601             38.8    52,231          38.8    52,231
Board-Effectiveness                   21.5    28,942              21.6    29,077          21.6    29,077
Supervision                           38.3    51,558              38.3    51,558          38.3    51,558
Completion                               8     10,769               10     13,462          10      13,462
Total                                234.6   315,808             224.3   286,328        224.3   286,328
Table: 12 -Bank Resources: Missions
Number                  Specialized    Implemen-
Stage of        Month/        of       Days in      staff skills    tation   Develpment  Types of
project cycle      Year      Persons      field      Represented      Status    Problems   Problems
11/16/87      2          29        Economists
Through appraisal     11/16/89      4          60        Economists
07-08/90      3          49        Economists
Appraisal-Board       01-02/91      4          104       3 Economists
1 Country Officer
06/20/91      1           10        Economist
Board-Effectiveness    07/10/91      1          2      1 Country Officer
I         ~~~~~~~~~~I 
09/1/91       3          45       2 Economists  I
Supervision                                            1 Country Officer
10/09/92      2          27      1 Research Asst I
1 Country Officer
10/19/93      1           5      1 Country Officer
Completion            4/17/95       1           15    Economist



A. Mission Aide-Memoire






AIDE-MAMOIRE- Page 1/3
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Rapport d'Achevement du Projet pour le Credit d'ajustement structurel
(CAS),
(Cr. 2271-RW)
24 avril- 12 mai 1995
1.    Mme Linda English, Chargee des operations pour le Rwanda au
siege de la Banque Mondiale, a effectue une mission d'achevement du projet relatif
au Credit d'ajustement structurel (CAS), (Cr. 2271-RW), a Kigali du 24 avril au
12 mai 1995. L'objectif de cette mission etait (i) de soumettre l'ebauche du
rapport au Gouvemement pour commentaires; (ii) de completer les donnees
statistiques annexees au document; et (iii) de verifier que la justification pour le
compte special pour le CAS est documente. La Mission residente a assure la
distribution du rapport au ministeres des Finances, du Plan, du Commerce, et a la
BNR. Dans ce cadre, le Directeur General du Ministere du Plan, qui avait assure
la presidence du Comite de Suivi du PAS, s'est charge de coordonner les
commentaires de tous les ministeres impliques dans l'execution du programme. La
mission a saisi cette occasion pour remercier les responsables a tous les niveaux
qui avaient deployes tous leurs efforts pour apporter leur contribution a ces
discussions fructueuses. La mission remercie les responsables de la BNR avec qui
un travail soutenu a et abattu en ce qui concerne le compte special et le Ministre
du Plan avec qui la mission a mene les discussions sur l'ajustement structurel. La
mission a eu une reunion de synthese avec le Ministre des Finances et avec le
representant resident par interim de la Banque Mondiale a Kigali.
2.    Le Gouvemement a remarque que le rapport qu'il a consult6 tient
compte du contenu du rapport qui a et prepare sur l'evaluation du Programme
d'ajustement structurel par le Comite de Suivi du PAS en aouit 1993, et qui a fait
l'objet de discussions a Washington en decembre 1993, dans le cadre d'une
preparation d'un deuxieme Programme d'ajustement structurel (PAS II) (voir en
annexe). Le Gouvernement trouve donc que le rapport fait assez bien le point de
l'experience de la mise en oeuvre des reformes politiques. A part quelques
corrections sur les chiffres, les tableaux, quelques dates et d'autre fautes mineures
qui ont ete faites sur le rapport lui-meme, le Gouvernement a fait ses commentaires
sur I'analyse de la Banque, I'impact des mesures, la vulgarisation des reformes, la
prestation des services de la Banque et le role de l'ajustement structurel pour
I'avenir.



A1DE-M1M0IRE- Page 253
3.    Impact des mesures
*  II est recommende de nuancer les commentaires sur les entreprises publiques,
la privatisation et la fonction publique. En fait, le Gouvemement n'a jamais
prepare de projet de loi pour la privatisation. Le Gouvernement avait lance un
appel d'offre pour un contrat portant sur la gestion d'ELECTROGAZ, mais, le
contrat n'a jamais ete negocie avec la societe privee.
* Le Gouvernement avait aussi prepare un programme de reforme de la fonction
publique mais la Banque n'a jamais donne son avis sur le document. (page iv,
para. 7 et page 3, para. 9 a 13, page 6, para. 22)
*  II est vrai qu'il n'y avait rien de fait sur le plan social et l'environnement dans le
cadre de CAS. Cependant, il faut juger le programme tel qu'il a ete concu car
il ne recommendait pas d'actions concretes. En ce qui concerne le projet
PNAS, la Banque a toujours refuse de prendre en charge les depenses
concernant l'education des enfants des families les plus demunies. (page iv,
para 8, page 7, para. 29)
*  Contrairement aux critiques exprimees dans le rapport, les autorites ont fait
beaucoup d'efforts pour renseigner la population sur le programme de
reformes. Le Gouvernement a tenu des reunions avec tous les groupes de la
societe partout dans le pays. La raison pour laquelle la population s'opposait a
l'imp6t de solidarite etait d'une part par opposition au Gouvernement et aussi
parce qu'elle pensait que cet impot financait la guerre. Cette opposition se
manifestait surtout parce que la population ne comprenait pas la politique de
l'ajustement structurel. (page v, para. 11 et page 12, para. 47, para 50)
*  JI est difficile de faire une distinction entre l'impact de la devaluation et celui de
la guerre sur la reduction de la demande et il faudrait en tenir compte dans le
rapport. (p. 2, para. 7)
*  Les problemes associes a la lenteur de l'utilisation des fonds decaisses n'ont
pas eu les memes effets pour d'autres donateurs. (page 3, para. 8)
*  Les chiffres sur l'impact de la politique monetaire sur les taux d'interet
devraient etre exprimes en termes reels pour montrer la vraie situation
economique. (page 6, para 21)
4.    L ajustement structurel dans l'avenir.  On tient beaucoup au
Rwanda a recommencer un programme d'ajustement structurel. II est evident qu'il
continue d'appliquer les reformes economiques, par exemple dans le domaine de la
gestion du taux de change et la r6forme de la fiscalit6. Toutefois, avant d'aller de
l'avant, le Gouvernement croit qu'il devrait y avoir un consensus sur la role de
l'etat dans 1'economie, rebatir les institutions economiques et focaliser d'abord sur
la stabilisation. Une grande partie de la capacite humaine, administrative et
technique de la gestion economique creee grace au Programme d'Ajustement
Structurel a ete detruite pendant les massacres et la guerre civile. Avant de



-      -' -ss
AIDE-MEMOIRE- Page 3/3
relancer un autre programme avec I'appui de la Banque et d'autres
institutions, le Gouvemement devra reconstituer les statistiques, les systemes de
comptabilite et de gestion budgetaire, le systeme fiscal et douanier et le regime des
changes. A cela s'ajoute la capacite d'analyse macroeconomique de gestion et de
suivi des investissements et de 1'execution du budget.
5.    Prestation des services de la Banque Mondiale. Le Gouvernement
a constate qu'il y avait une continuite dans les discussions, les negociations et le
suivi avec la Banque, ce qui est important pour l'execution d'un programme de
reformes. Pourtant, la Banque aurait pu ameliorer la qualite de son service dans
les domaines suivants:
la Banque a et parfois lente a repondre aux demarches faites par le
Gouvernement. Par exemple, en ce qui concerne les reformes de la fonction
publique, le Gouvernement constate qu'il a presente a la Banque un projet de Plan,
mais qu'il n'a jamais recu de commentaires sur le projet qu'il avait presente;
* il y a des contradictions entre les conditionnalites du CAS et les programmes
sectoriels en ce qui concerne l'elimination des subventions sur le secteur cafe,
ce qui a cree une certaine confusion et ambiguite au niveau du Gouvernement;
* Dans le suivi du programme, la Banque a toujours souligne que les droits
douaniers devaient tomber a 80% des 1992. Mais le Gouvernement soutient
que ce chiffre n'a jamais figure dans la matrice des mesures et qu'il n'y a eu
aucune discussion a ce sujet avec la Banque - cet objectif a ete rajoute donc au
demier moment sans son accord. Neanmoins les droits douaniers sont tombes
a 60% en mars 1995.
6.    Les donnees. Lors des discussions, le Gouvernement a donn6 les
e1lments qui manquaient au plan de financement d'apres les donateurs.
L'information a completer par le Gouvernement concerne le cout du projet et de
ses composantes tel qu'il avait ete projete au depart et tel qu'il a ete execute.
7.    Le compte special du CAS. Afin de clarifier la situation du compte
special dont le solde s'6levait a $15.0 millions dans le cadre du CAS et de faire une
estimation des couts du projet, il importe que le Gouvernement finisse le travail de
documentation pour la justification des fonds decaisses et qu'il prepare une
demande de remboursement. Cette derniere etape est necessaire pour la cloture du
dossier et pour l'ouverture d'un nouveau compte special dans le cadre du Credit
d'urgence de rehabilitation (ERC, Cr. 2678-RW).
Ampliations
cc:   S.E. Jean Berchmans Birara, Ministre du Plan
cc:   S.E. Gerard Niyitegeka Gouverneur, Banque Nationale du Rwanda
cc:    S.E. Prosper Higiro, Ministre du Commer






B. Miscellaneous: Other Annexes






Annex-- Page 1/2
LeKter to the Government of Rwanda
The World Bank                                          1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND OEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433     Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                   U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
Washington, le 01 Mai, 1995
Monsieur le Ministre des Finances
Kigali, Republique du Rwanda
Objet: Rapport d'achevement du Credit d'Ajustement Structurel .Credit 2271-Rw
Monsieur le Ministre,
J'ai 1'honneur de vous informer que, suite a la cl6ture effective le 31 Decembre 1994 du
Credit d'Ajustement Structurel(CAS), la Banque se propose de preparer un rapport d'achevement.
Dans ce cadre, Madame LINDA  English actuellement en mission a Kigali rencontrera les
responsables des differentes structures ayant participe i la lmise en oeuvre du CAS au Rwanda.
Comme vous le savez, le chmat d'insecurite et de guerre qui a prevalu durant la periode de
preparation, d'execution et de mise en oeuvre n'a pas permis d'executer le Credit jusqua'i son
terme. Malgr6 ces difficultds, ce rapport rev& un caractere particulierement important parce qu'il
permettra de tirer de riches lecons et enseignements pour une meilleure preparation des actions
futures. Ce document sera un precieux outil de travail qui aidera la Banque et le Gouvernement a
mieux definir et a mettre en place une nouvelle strategie en matiere de developpement pour le
Rwanda.
En consequence, ce rapport d'achevement sera tres important dans la determination et
l'orientation des actions futures de la Banque en matiere de Programme d'Ajustement Structurel au
Rwanda et devra faire le point sur: (i) le degre de realisation des objectifs, (ii) le niveau et la
qualite des prestations de la Banque et du Rwanda, (iii) les resultats obtenus ainsi que les lecons
tirees et les perspectives d'avenir. Le rapport comportera aussi des donnes permettant de justifier
tous ces elements et d'identifier les principaux enseignements a retenir de l'execution du Credit.
Le Gouvernement Rwandais, en sa qualite d'emprunteur est invite a participer activement
a la preparation du rapport d'achevement en preparant son propre rapport d'evaluation sur
l'execution du credit. Le rapport d'evaluation fait par le Gouvernement devra parvenir a la Banque
le 06 Juin 1995 au plus tard et devra comporter les points suivants:
a) un jugement sur la conception et la realisation des objectifs du credit, ainsi que
son execution,
b) une evaluation du niveau et de la qualite des prestations du Rwanda lors de
l'execution du projet avec un accent particulier sur les legons qui peuvent etre tirees de cette
experience pour les operations similaires futures,
RCA 248423. m WUI 64145 m FAX (202) 477-6391



Annex4I- Page 212
c) une 6valuation des prestations foumnies par la Banque et les co-financiers lors de
l'ex6cution du projet avec un accent particulier sur la nature des relations qui ont existe entre la
Banque, le Rwanda pays emprunteur et les cofinanciers ainsi que les lecons qui peuvent etre tirees
de cette experience pour les operations similaires futures.
Le rapport d'evaluation fait par le Gouvemement devra parvenir a la Banque dans
les delais pour pouvoir figurer dans les documents qui seront transmis au Conseil d!Administrawion.
Si cette evaluation excede dix (10) pages il serait souhaitable qu'un resume soit prepare. 11 est
demande au Gouvemement de faire des commentaires appropries sur le projet de rapport
d'achevement prepare par le personnel de la Banque.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Ministre, 1'expression sincere de ma haute
consideration.
Michael SARRIS
Chef de Division des Operations
Departement des Pays de l'Afrique
Centrale et de I'Ocean Indien
Region Afrique



Annex- II- Page 1/2
Washington, le I Mai 1995
Letter to Mr Kanimba Former President of The National
Comttee for Structural Adjustment Program
Monsieur KANIMBA Francois
Kigali, Republique du Rwanda
Objet: Rapport d'achevement du Credit d'Ajustement Structurel .Credit 2271-RW
Monsieur KANIMBA,
Suite a la cl6ture effective le 31 Decembre 1994 du Credit d'Ajustement
Structurel(CAS), la Banque est en train de preparer un rapport d'achevement. Dans ce cadre,
Madame Linda ENGISH actuellement en mission a Kigali discutera avec vous de ce rapport dont
le prermier draft vous sera remis. Je compte personnellernent sur vous pour apporter votre
contribution a la version finale du document compte tenu l'important r6le de premier plan que vous
avez joue durant 1'execution du projet en votre qualite de responsable du Conite National de Suivi
du PAS.
Comrne vous le savez, le climat d'insecurite et de guerre qui a prevalu durant la periode de
preparation, d'execution et de mnise en oeuvre n'a pas permis d'executer le Credit jusqu'a son
terme. Malgre ces difficultes, ce rapport revet un caractere particulierement important parce qu'il
permettra de tirer de riches lecons et enseignements pour une meilleure preparation des actions
futures. Ce document sera un precieux outil de travail qui aidera la Banque et le Gouvernement a
definir et a mettre en place une nouvelle strategie meilleure en matiere de developpement pour le
Rwanda.
Le rapport fera le point sur: (i) le degre de realisation des objectifs, (ii) le niveau et la
qualite des prestations de la Banque et du Rwanda, (iii) les resultats obtenus et les perspectives
d'avenir. Le rapport comportera des donnes permettant de justifier tous ces elements et d'identifier
des le,ons A tirer de l'execution du Credit. Durant cette rmission, Madame Linda ENGISH aura
besoun des donnees sur la participation des cofinanciers, 1'emploi des ressources decaissees, le plan
du financement du programme ainsi que les etudes realisees dans le cadre du projet. Des donnees
sur des indicateurs sociaux et economiques observes seront aussi collectees sur la periode 1989-
1994. Enfin la mission aura a rencontrer plusieurs cadres, responsables nationaux ainsi que
certains representants des bailleurs ayant soutenu le Programme d'Ajustement Structurel du
Rwanda.
Par ailleurs, j'ai deja envoye une lettre au Ministre des Finances pour notifier que le
Gouvemement Rwandais en sa qualite d'emprunteur, est invite a participer a la preparation du
rapport d'achevement en preparant son propre rapport d'evaluation sur l'execution du credit qui
devra parvenir a la Banque le 06 Juin 1995 au plus tard. En attendant la reaction officielle du
Gouvemement, je voudrais que vous commenciez a reflechir sur le rapport d'evaluation etant donne
que vous etes actuellement parmni les personnes les rnieux indiquees pour une telle initiative.



Annex- II- Page 2/2
Le rapport d'evaluation fait par le Gouvemement devra comporter les points suivants:
a) un jugement sur la conception et la realisation des objectifs du credit, ainsi que
son execution,
b) une evaluation du niveau et de la qualit6 des prestations du Rwanda lors de
1'execution du projet avec un accent particulier sur les lecons qui peuvent tre tirees de cette
experience pour les operations similaires futures,
c) une evaluation des prestations foumies par la Banque et les co-financiers lors de
l'ex6cution du projet avec un accent particulier sur la nature des relations qui ont existe ente la
Banque, le Rwanda pays emprunteur et les cofinanciers amsi que les legons q u peuvent &re tiries
de cette experience pour les operations similaires futures.
Le rapport d'evaluation fait par le Gouvernement devra parvenir a la Banque dans.
Si cette evaluation excede dix (10) pages il serait souhaitable qu'un resume soit prepar6. II est
dernande au Gouvernernent de faire des commentaires approprins sur le projet de rapport
d'achverment prepare par le personnel de la Banque dans un delai d!un mois apres sa reception.
Je vous remercie d'avance pour votre participation active et vous transmets mes salutations
les plus cordiales et amicales.
Michael SARRIS



2830'                            200'                              29'30    j                        3000'                             3Q030
RWANDA                                                             )
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT                                                                               UGANDA                        ,
CREDIT                                                       j                                                                        TANZANI
v       X    X ~~~T A N Z A N I A
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                      J
C)  PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                 *(
MAIN ROADS                                 ZAIJi                                                                                   AKAGERA IR
./ Ruhengeri      -         '                                       NATIONAL
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                  r     NATIONA                                    Byurba                       PARK
/    PARK
* INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          /
/ (GtJ GIHWATI                                                                                  -       i
X    (    ~~FOREST                                                                                         i
LAKE  KiKVU                                                               LI  ~0.   
2'00                                                                                     ,o-
Ki y70fbs 
Kibungo
2830
IUGANDA      KENYA          CYanguu
) f   s .  1                                  ~~~~~~~~                                  ~    ~~FOREST)                                                          f
B9 URUNDI                                                                                 B or
BURUND  I                             The boundaries, colors,
TANZANIA                                                                                                                              fn/           denominations and any
ZAIRE .<_  TANZANIA                          .......o %                                          2p                                                     '       otfher mformation shown
ZAIRE                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on this ma, do, not
D  K  BIA    +     <  . .LW    Z   A    I R   E                                                                 KILOMETERS  0    5   10   15  20   25   30   35   40   45   50  The  World   Bank  Group,
ZAMABIA                                                                                                                    I__________________                 any judgment on the leg al ,
MOZAMBIQUE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILS05      S202  oor any endorsement,,
D |  50r  2 MiZAMBIQUi '\                  J    (_                   MILE5 0    5   10  15  20  25  30    or cceptanace of such ao
o  --'<    >2900  \                                 930    /                        3~'0o' 29                                  boundaries. _3        -












