                                                                                  57999
run                                                                                         1




            NM -                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                                              Wednesday, June 19, 1991

                                                              Washington, D.C.

                                          The meeting of the Executive Directors was convened

                                at 10:02 a.m. in the Board Room, IBIB H Street, N.W.,

                                Washington, D.C., Mr. Barber B. Conable, Chairman, presiding.




MII.IZft flEPORTlNG CO·· INC.
)01 C Smet. N.I!.
Washincton. D,C. 20002
(202)   ~.66U
                                                  CON T E   r' '1'   S

                              ITEM                                       PAGE



                              ·                              -
                              2      Proposed Credit - Rwanda (First
                                     Structural Adjustment Program)       61
                                       Mr. Cox                            66
                                       Mr. Patai                          68
                                       Mr. Baijal                         70
                                       Mr. AI-Assaf                       71
                                     -Mr. de Fontaine Vive                72
                                       Mr. Rehm                           76
                                       Mr. Graham-Harrison                95


                              ·
                              I


                              ·                                          ·

MIU..ER REPORTING CO., INC.
)07 C   SUCCI,   N.H.
Wuhingron, D.C. 20002
{202l '46-6666
run                                                                                        61




                                        Let's move on now to Rwanda.    Item two is a

                              proposed first structural adjustment credit in the amount of

                              67.5 million SDR, or $90 million U.S. equivalent, to Rwanda.

                                        Mr. Abu-zobaa, a Division Chief of the African

                              Department of the IMF, is attending this meeting. We welcome

                              him.

                                        Mr. Devaux is a Country Officer in the Africa

                              Region, and he is going to introduce the proposal for us on
                              this Rwandan loan.

                                        Mr. Devaux.

                                        MR. DEVAUX:   Mr. Chairman, Members of the Board:

                              The credit before you is the first structural adjustment

                              operation in Rwanda.    It took several years of intensive


MlLLI!R REPORTING CO., tNe.
'01 C Sum:, N.B.
W..hinlfOlI, D.C. 20002
(202) '46-6666
nm                                                                                          62



                               dialogue for the government to request the help of the Bank

                               and the IMP in preparing an adjustment program and to agree

                               on a viable policy framework which provides the basis for

                               this credit. The policy framework paper was discussed by the

                               Committee of the Whole on April 23.

                                         As we reported then, a draft policy framework paper

                               had just been negotiated when in October 1990 the country was

                               invaded by Tutsi refugees from Uganda.

                                         Diplomatic efforts with neighboring countries to

                               find a political solution to the conflict and President

                               Habyarimana's decision to initiate a process of national

                               reconciliation and political reform led to a formal cease

                               fire, which was signed on March 29.

                                         The cease fire has been generally respected , despite

                               skirmishes along the northern border. Since that date, the

                               political situation has improved but still remains fragile.

                               The political reform process is progressing well:    a new

                               constitution which opens the way for multi-party elections

                               was signed into law on June 10; several new parties have made

                               known their intention to be registered as soon as the law on

                               party politics is adopted; a series of amnesty measures have

                               been undertaken, including the release of about 9 , 000
                               political prisoners .


... LER REPOR1'IIG CO·· INC.
'07 C SUeet. N.Il.
Washinpn. O.C. 20002
(202) S46.6666
nm                                                                                         63



                                          Multi-party elections are expected to take place

                              before the end of the year. Some progress has also been

                              registered on finding a political solution to the refugee

                              issue. The meeting requested by the Heads of State in Dar es

                              Salaam took place in May in Geneva and it was agreed to

                              proceed with a census of all refugees as a first step to the

                              preparation of an action plan.

                                           On the economic front, Rwanda had been a good

                              performer in the 1970s when growth averaged 4 percent per

                              year.     However, in the 19805 the authorities pursued inap-

                              propriate policies to deal with external shocks, especially

                              the decline in the price of coffee, the main foreign exchange

                              earner.

                                           By 1990, the incentive structure had become highly

                              distorted with widespread price and foreign exchange controls. i

                              The exchange rate became highly overvalued. These policies

                              led to losses in competitiveness, the development of ineffi-

                              cient economic activities and a decade of steadily declining
                              per capita income.

                                          The government took a long time to arrive at the

                              conclusion that 'an adjustment program was necessary to

                              establish the conditions for a resumption of economic growth.

                              This long internal debate has allowed an internalization of


IIILLER REPORTING CO., INC.
'01 C SIRn, N.E.
Wubin&lIm. D.C. 20002
(202) ,46·6666
run                                                                                        64



                               both the nature and the pace of the reforms. The proposed

                               credit will support the government's structural adjustment

                               program described in the PFP.

                                         The main objectives of the program are to stabilize

                               the economy, create an enabling environment to improve

                               Rwanda's competitiveness, promote a better allocation of

                               resources, lay the foundation for an export led growth, and

                               enhance living conditions for the Rwandese people.

                                         Specifically, this credit will support measures:

                               establish and maintain a competitive exchange rate; introduce

                               a more liberal foreign exchange allocation and trade regime;

                               rationalize import tariffs; liberalize domestic trade;

                               simplify and streamline the regulatory   environment~   alleviate

                               institutional and production constraints in the coffee and

                               energy sectors; improve public resource management, including

                               the introduction of a rational process of public expenditure

                               programming; and initiate policy reforms dealing with labor

                               legislation and civil service.

                                         Finally, as in the case of the Comoros adjustment,

                               which was approved by the EDs last week, the Rwanda SAL

                               incorporates in its design a satisfactory social safety net

                               compatible with a sound macroeconomic framework.

                                         The government has demonstrated its firm commitment


IIII.LER REPORTING CO., lHe.
~01   C Sueet. N.I!.
Wuhington, D.C. 20002
(202) )46·6666
 nm                                                                                       65


                              to the reform program supported by this credit by taking

                              several politically sensitive measures upfront.    Some of the

                              important actions already taken include a devaluation of 40

                              percent in foreign currency terms, a 79 percent increase in

                              the price of petroleum products, the introduction of a

                              liberalized import regime for a majority of imports r the

                              abolition of import prohibitions, the elimination of most

                              controls on profit margins and fixed price, and a liberaliza-

                              tion of interest rates.

                                          The proposed credit is expected to contribute to

                              the restoration of internal and external financial and

                              economic equilibria, and the proposed measures to improve the

                              incentive system should stimulate private sector activity

                              which is necessary to restore economic growth and employment

                              creation.

                                          The proposed credit is the centerpiece of the

                              Bank's country assistance strategy discussed by the Executive

                              Directors last December.     It will be followed by two other

                              adjustment operations:     a financial sector adjustment credit

                              and an agricultural sector adjustment credit aimed at

                              deepening sector reforms to stimulate a supply response.

                                          The program supported by the proposed credit was

                              developed in close collaboration with the IMF, the ADB,


IIILU!R REPORTING CO., INC.
'07 C Street. N.E.
Wuhi.a(tOQ. D.C. lOOOl
(20l) ,46-6666
run                                                                                              66



                              Belgium, Switzerland and several other bilateral partners who

                              have affirmed their support to Rwanda in the framework of the

                              Special Program of Assistance for Africa.

                                           During a special donors    I   .meeting in March, donors

                              provided firm indications of commitments to fill the financing

                              gap for 1991.

                                           Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                           MR. CONABLE:   Thank you very much, Mr. Devaux.

                                           NOw, what questions do we have on this proposal?

                                           Mr. Cox.

                                           MR. COX:   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                           It wasn't my intention to go first, but I guess

                              here I am.

                                           MR. CONABLE:   Be brave.

                                           MR. COX:   I usually am.

                                           MR. CONABLE:   Pioneering carries a great premium.

                                           MR. COX:   That's what happens when you grow up in

                              Wyoming, Mr. Chairman.      You become a perpetual pioneer.

                                           MR. CONABLE:   Yes.

                                           MR. COX:   Thank you.

                                           The economic program outlined here seems generally

                              on target. We note that the problem of overvalued exchange

                              rates is a factor in several contexts, specifically the need


MLLEI'I R£PORTIHO CO., INC.
107 C Sum. N.E.
WashingtOn. D.C. 20002
(lOl)   ~6666
                                                                                             67



                                to improve export competitiveness and to reduce the current

                                account deficit.

                                             It is, therefore, of critical importance that the

                                Rwanda franc be maintained at an appropriate level and that a

                                non-discriminatory foreign exchange allocation system be

                                established, as required for the second tranche release of

                                this loan.

                                             It is critical to get control of the fiscal deficit

                                and thereby of domestic indebtedness, especially bank

                                borrowing.

                                             The program establishes a detailed agenda for

                                reducing the deficit, but does not again mention the subject

                                of domestic debt after referring to the program on page 4.

                                Does the staff believe that this is an issue requiring

                                further attention?     If so, perhaps additional comments could

                                be made there.

                                             Given the need to improve export competitiveness,

                                we wonder why export taxes are to be retained on coffee. This

                                is referred to on page 6, paragraph 17.

                                             We applaud the emphasis given to encouragement of

                                the private sector and to price reforms as a partial means to

                                that end.     In addition, we applaud the detailed timetable on

                                page 40 for the public enterprise project. Given the severity


IIIILLEft REPORTING CO., INC.
)07 C Stlttl, N.B.
WuhinJtoa. D.C.      20002
(202) ,46-6666
nm                                                                                            68



                                of Rwanda's fiscal problems, however, the schedule for

                                diagnostic studies on page 41 strikes    US   as quite relaxed.

                                Shouldn't and couldn't this be. accelerated?

                                          Because the reform on import policy and foreign

                                exchange allocation is an interim measure for moving to the

                                open general licensing system, there is a need for institu-

                                tional strengthening to ensure that the liberalization

                                process moves forward in a sustained manner.

                                          As there are many reform areas involved, we are

                                concerned about the government's institutional capacity to

                                implement the reforms in a timely manner to monitor and

                                assess their effects and to make necessary modifications.

                                          We would encourage the government to seek needed

                                technical assistance in the short run, while attempting to

                                build up its own national capacity over time.

                                          Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                          MR. CONABLE:     Thank you, Mr. Cox.

                                          Mr. Patai.

                                          MR. PATAI:     Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                          We fully support the credit before us. The present

                                structural adjustment program is very timely and addresses

                                the problems of the country comprehensively.

                                          Let me point out three major elements.       Adjustment


IIILLI!II AEPOATlNQ CO., liC.
)07 C Street. N.H.
WuhinllfOn. D.C. 20002
(202) )46·6666
run                                                                                      69



                            of the exchange rate to the external situation, long advocated

                            by this Chair, is and will continue to be a major element of

                            this program.

                                       Likewise, the elimination of import restrictions

                            and establishment of an open general licensing system

                            represents important changes which donors are eager to

                            support.

                                       The introduction of a rolling public investment

                            program will provide a useful framework for coordinating

                            multilateral and bilateral aid and increasing its efficiency

                            and benefit to the country.

                                       Two questions:     In light of the risk presented by

                            Rwanda's weak institutional capacity for implementation, I

                            would like the staffs to elaborate on the measures taken to

                            address this problem.     In the same vein, what measures have

                            been taken to improve the relatively low level of disburse-

                            ments in the Bank's project lending?

                                       Second, would not establishing a minimum level of

                            10 percent for all imports tariffs involve an increase in the

                            tariffs on capital goods which could be harmful to the

                            development of a diversified private sector?

                                       Thank you.

                                       MR. CONABLE:     Thank you, Mr. Patai .


..LUll MPORTlHG CO., INC.
)01 C SUtel, N .E.
WashingtOn, D.C. 20002
(201) )46.6666
nm                                                                                              70



                                             Mr. Baijal.

                                             MR. BAIJAL:    Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                             I am fully supportive of this operation. There is,

                               however, one question which is on the basis of reading of

                               Table 1 and Table 3. Maybe it is answered properly but, if it

                               is a dumb question in terms of what Mr. Potter said, it is

                               because   I   have not been able to read the whole thing very

                               carefully.

                                             NOW,   the question was that if you look at -- I

                               couldn't find the terms of trade calculation anywhere, how

                               they have moved. But if one looks at the export volume growth
.-                             between 1986 and 1990 or so, the export volume has increased

                               by about 36 percent.

                                             But the export receipts have gone down even in

                               nominal terms.        It is a very disastrous situation.

                                             Imports have gone down by 16 percent, but the

                               import payments have more or less remained at the same level

                               as in 1987.

                                             NOW,   under this situation if we are going to have -

                               - obviously, these exports are impoverishing the country

                               almost continuously. And we are going to encourage an export

                               system more by making adjustment in the exchange rates and so

                               on.   NOW,    if it is not accompanied by a very, very strong


MII.1.ER REPORTING CO., INC.
'07 C SU~t. N.I!.
Wubingmn. D.C. 20002
(202)~
 run                                                                                         71



                               program of diversification or improvement in productivity or

                               something like that, I think this is going to make a very

                               poor country still more poor.

                                            So, all that we are told here is that the diver-

                               sification program should be done, and there is a timetable

                               which says that by 1991 it will be done.       What is the content

                               of the diversification, what is the role which the Bank is

                               playing in giving them due assistance for diversifying their

                               economy so that they don't really keep on exporting whatever

                               little net wealth they have?

                                            Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                            MR. CONABLE:    Thank you, Mr. Baijal.

                                            Mr. AI-Assaf.

                                            MR. AL-ASSAF:   Mr. Chairman, I also support this

                               operation.     I think it addresses the main issues facing the

                               country.

                                            I have a couple of comments, one on the health

                               sector. This has been subject to discussion bilaterally with

                               the staff, but I think this is an important area that the

                               authorities should look into, especially, as the report

 -                             indicates, that the country is facing diseases as AIDS and

                               malaria, and some efforts should be given to this sector.

                                            The other is on energy.    I welcome the intention to


M1IJ.Ift REPORTING CO., INC.
)07 C Sm:el. N.I!.
WuhinllOtl, D.C. 201)0.:.1
(202) :l46-U66
 run                                                                                            72



                                 exploit the methane gas in Kivu Lake. And I think that will

                                 help the country first from an environmental point of view

                                 and, second, from foreign exchange.

                                              But I don't understand the other aspects of the

                                 energy where the country attempts to make exports more

                                 competitive, as Mr. Cox mentioned, and diversify the economy

                                 while at the same time increasing the costs of other sources

                                 of energy.     I think this is again a point I mentioned before.

                                              Thank you.

                                              MR. CONABLE:   Thank you.

                                              Monsieur de Fontaine Vive .
-
.                                             MR. DE FONTAINE VIVE:   (Interpreted from French.)

                                 Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                              I would like to say immediately that we support

                                 obviously without any reservation the document before us

                                 today. And I would like today to limit my comments to the

                                 content of the program, going rather quickly on the macro-

                                 economic framework since less than two months ago we had an

                                 opportunity to discuss the PFP during our meeting of April 23

                                 last.

                                              So, regarding the macroeconomic framework, I will

                                 make only three observations on three traditional subjects:

                                 first, the importance in controlling budgetary expenditures


MIJ..EA I'IEItORTlHG CO., INC.
~7 C Scm:t. N.ll.
Wuhlnaton, D.C. 20002
(202) )46-6666
run                                                                                         73



                                in this country, which is heavily dependent on external aid;

                                regarding currency to recall our concern of having not only a

                                decrease in the growth of the aggregate but also to have

                                positive interest rates, but this obviously will be part of

                                the structural adjustment loan in financial sector; and

                                finally, regarding the exchange rate, in view of the important

                                devaluation.

                                          A question is raised about the possibility of a

                                consolidation phase since the tables referred to by Mr.

                                Baijal do show that we can have a phase of stabilization of

                                the exchange rate between the Rwandese franc and the dollar.

                                This is compatible with the program before us today.

                                          Therefore, I would like to concentrate my interven-

                                tion on the elements which are relating to the content,

                                first, to welcome the importance granted to the social and

                                population component of the project itself, the project which

                                is next on the agenda under the Special Procedure, which fits

                                perfectly this logic.   We consider as particularly welcome

                                the safety net which will be put in place under this problem.

                                          The second source of satisfaction is also the

 ,--                            emphasis placed in a rather diffused way on the technical

                                assistance to help with the problem of institutional capacity

                                which is chronically weak in this country.   Perhaps this


....LEft REJlORTINQ CO., INC.
S01 C Street. N.B,
Washington. D,C, 20002
(202) )4606666
run                                                                                      74



                             diffused character could disappear if we had a more voluntary

                             presentation of the technical assistance given by the World

                             Bank Group to Rwanda.

                                        The third element of satisfaction, halfway between

                             the two points, which is the emphasis placed on the greater

                             flexibility of inputs, particularly the mObility of labor

                             which is one of the components of this program.

                                        The fourth element on which I would like to come

                             back, a question for the staff under the chapter "Reform of

                             the Public Sector" on page 17, it is indicated there that the

                             public enterprises will be part of the privatization program,

                             but nothing is said about what will happen on the exoneration

                             of taxes for this public enterprises.

                                        Is this already done or is this part of this

                             program?   Paragraph 55 says nothing on this point, while

                             paragraph 54 talks at length on the disappearance of all the

                             public enterprises, including whether or not they are

                             profitable in the country.

                                        Another comment which I note in paragraph 71, page

                             22 of the document, which traditionally in all adjustment

                             programs indicates the risks of a project and, therefore, I

                             am rather surprised, in fact, in finding in paragraph 71

                             which implicitly involves the will of the authorities of


MLU!R RIPOIITIHQ CO., INC.
'07 C SUCCI, N.E.
Wuhington. D.C. 20002
(102) '46·6666
run                                                                                        75



                              Rwanda to develop this adjustment program, while saying quite

                              the contrary, and it seems to me, for example, in the project

                              we have just examined regarding Hungary -- I will refer to it

                              quickly -- we haven't felt the need of having questions on

                              the will of the authorities in the country to implement the

                              program.

                                         I thought I understood that, if the management was

                              giving us a product, it was convinced of the will of the

                              authorities to implement this program. Therefore, I would

                              like to know why we find this in paragraph 71.

                                         Finally, to indicate to you that we expect with

                              interest and some impatience the next two structural adjust-

                              ment operations. To the extent that the reform in the

                              financial sector and agriculture appear to us quite indispen-

                              sable, to ensure a durable growth base for Rwanda in the

                              administration last April and in the IMF concerns some

                              questions which were expressed as to the realism of the

                              growth rate which is indicated in the PFP, which is the basis

                              of this structural adjustment program.

                                         Thank you, sir.

                                         MR. CONABLE:   Thank you, Monsieur de Fontaine Vive.

                                         Mr. Rehm.

                                         MR. REHM:   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.


IoILUR AtPORTlNQ CO .. INC.
~07   C Street. N,E.
WlIShinJlgn. D.C. 20002
(202) )46-6666
nm                                                                                        76



                                        I support the first structural adjustment program

                           for Rwanda.     It is ambitious and I can only hope that the

                           envisaged growth rates of GOP and exports will be realized.

                           But there is no alternative to structural adjustment.

                                        Given the difficult situation in the country and

                           the recent ethnic strife, a careful design of the adjustment

                           credit is very important. The emphasis put on measures to

                           alleviate the negative impact of adjustment on the poorest

                           strata of the society is, therefore, very well taken. This

                           will help to make more sustainable the structural adjustment

                           process that Rwanda is embarking upon.

                                        Allow me one observation that I have made before,

                           and that is of some important to Rwanda but also to other

                           countries in the regions. The measures envisaged in the SAL

                           to promote the private sector are necessary indeed. But this

                           might not be enough.

                                        Right now, Rwanda and the neighboring countries are

                           producing more or less the same products. So, the potential

                           of trade in the area is probably rather small.

                                        But with diversification in the long-run there will

                           be a need to export to neighboring countries and, therefore,

                           there might be a case for the Central African Economic

                           Community.     Without open borders to neighboring countries,


MLLEA Ab'ORTINO CO" INC.
)07 C SUCCI. N.E.
WasbingtOn. D,C, 20002
(202) )46.6666
nm                                                                                               77



                                   the potential to create enough jobs for the fast-growing

                                   population might be rather limited.

                                                Maybe such a concept could be realized in the

                                   framework of the Communite Economique des Pays des Grands

                                   Lacs.   The countries of the region need encouragement to

                                   think about such a concept.

                                                I want to close with a remark regarding the first

                                   population project that is on our agenda under Special

                                   Procedure.     Reading this document really made clear to me how

                                   important a successful population policy is for Rwanda.

                                   Without putting a cap on population growth, all the adjustment

                                   efforts will lead to nothing in the long-run.

                                                I strongly support the population project.

                                                Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                                MR. CONABLE:   Thank you, Mr. Rehm.

                                                I think there will be further comment on that last

                                   loan, the population loan.

                                                We have a number of issues here before us, Mr.

                                   Devaux, starting even with the coffee export tax. Will you

                                   address these problems?

                                                MR. DEVAUX:    Concerning the domestic tax, obviously

                                   it is a mounting problem in Rwanda, but we understand that a

                                   number of donors are making special provision as part of the


IILLI!R IIEPOR'TINQ   co~   INC.
507 C Street. N.B.
Wubinttoo. D.C. 20002
(202) )46-6666
run                                                                                         78



                             use of the counterpart funds of their balance of payments

                             assistance to earmark those funds for the reduction of the

                             domestic debt.    Therefore, this problem should normally not

                             be eliminated and be reduced.

                                       The export tax on coffee can be criticized in the

                             sense that it may reduce

                                       MR. CONABLE:     It makes coffee less competitive.

                                       MR. DEVAUX:     It makes coffee less competitive.     On

                             the other hand, it is the only way to tax a large sector of

                             the economy.     In fact, there is an income tax which is

                             perceived at the time the product leaves the country. And,

                             therefore, it is very embarrassing to eliminate a tax which

                             is, after all, the normal contribution of a sector. There are

                             other ways to make it more competitive.

                                       Concerning the private sector, the credit recognizes
                             that improving the private sector is very important, but that

                             is certainly not the only thing. We are trying to establish

                             the proper framework for private sector development.

                                       Concerning the public enterprise projects, the

                             current diagnostic studies are difficult to accelerate

                             because we need, first, to establish a strategy and to have

                             the proper legislation. And the government has been extremely

                             timid in the past in moving on the public enterprises.


IlLUR IIEPORTlHQ CO., INC.
S07 C Sm:ct. N.E.
\Vuhing«lil. D.C. 2000.
(202) S46.6666
run                                                                                      79



                                       In fact, some of those studies can be advanced, but

                             a number of them, they have very strong resistance for

                             various reasons. And we don't think we can go faster than has

                             been indicated.

                                       We agree with you on the need for technical

                             assistance to reinforce the institutions, especially in the

                             establishment of the OGL.   We did not include it in this

                             credit, number one, because we have already a couple of

                             technical assistance credits which we can use to help the

                             government and, secondly, some of our partners are specifi-

                             cally addressing this issue.   Our colleagues from USAIO are

                             presenting an adjustment credit to support this one, which

                             has a technical assistance component, to precisely have the

                             government establish and monitor the OGL.

                                       This goes to the question of the next speaker on

                             the weak institution capacity. We are all concerned with the

                             weakness of the institutions, and I think a number of donors

                             are trying to do their best to increase that capacity.      In

                             fact, this SAL has been designed in conjunction with a number

                             of partners.   Not only the USAIO was part of the appraisal

                             mission, but the Belgians, the Canadians r the Swiss and

                             everyone is trying through their own bilateral program to

                             improve the institution and the institutional capacity of the


MLLER RIPOfITING CO., INC.
~7   C Strftt. N.!:.
WuNngtoD. D,C. 20002
(202)   ~46-6666
run                                                                                      eo


                             country.

                                        The level of disbursements in Rwanda has been very

                             low in the past few years. We are very conscious of that and

                             we have undertaken last summer steps to improve the rate of

                             disbursements.

                                        Number one, we had a seminar on disbursement

                             procedures for Bank credit. The administrative procedures as

                             to weakness of institutions in Rwanda are sometimes cumbersome

                             and we had to remind them how they should ask for requests of

                             disbursements of Bank loans.

                                        Secondly, the procurement procedures in Rwanda are

                             extremely delicate and cumbersome, and we also during the

                             same seminar had a special session on procurement procedures

                             on Bank loans.

                                        Normally, we should have seen some impact of those

                             seminars if the war had not prevented the implementation of a

                             number of projects over the last few months.

                                        One speaker mentioned the imposition of a 10

                             percent minimum tariff on all imports as an obstacle to

                             industrialization and investment.   We don't think it is fair

                             to exempt capital goods from any import tax. The 10 percent

                             across the board tariff is essential to manage to reduce the

                             budget deficit.


!ILLER REPORTING CO., INC.
S07 C Street. N.E.
Washington. D.C. 20002
(202) )46.6666
nm                                                                                            81



                                            One speaker mentioned that he could not find any

                               statement on the deterioration of the terms of trade. We are

                               sorry we did not have something on the table, but we can tell

                               you that the terms of trade have been seriously deteriorated

                               over the last five years on account basically of the decline

                               in coffee prices.

                                            In fact, the sarne speaker was indicating that he

                               was concerned with the decline of exports in value, and the

                               export was increasing in volume, in fact just reflecting the

                               sad situation of coffee prices which have been declining over

                               the last few years.

                                            We obviously are concerned about the program of

                               diversification and these actually create the environment for

                               this diversification. What we see in a country like Rwanda is

                               an industrialization towards exports, an export-led growth.

                               That is what we are looking at.

                                            We would like to take advantage of the differential

                               of wages between Rwanda and some industrialized countries in

                               order to get some kind of industrial development a 1a

                               Mauritius.      Obviously, it takes time. The experience of

                               Mauritius shows us that the first measures were established

                               in the late 19605 and the country could only benefit by the
..-                            early 19805 .


MILLIiR REI'OR11HG CO., INC.
)07 C Street. N.E.
WubingtOtl, D.C. 20002
(202) 546-6666
nm                                                                                           82



                                          It takes time to have the right kind of framework,

                                the right kind of incentive to attract foreign investors. The

                                foreign investors are critical in this kind of operation

                                because, number one, they provide certainly capital for

                                investment, but also they provide the know-how which is

                                important and, more important, the marketing system. Without

                                the proper marketing system, there is no way you can export.

                                          So, what we have been doing is to establish the

                                proper framework for Rwanda, to get a lower exchange rate,

                                liberalize the economy, open up the borders, try to establish

                                the right kind of tariffs which are the preconditions for any

                                kind of development.

                                          NOw, we know that it will take time for the

                                industrial development to take place.   In the short-term we

                                are working on improving coffee production, in improving tea

                                production, in trying to diversify agriculture, and that is

                                one of the objectives of the reform program on coffee that we

                                have in this program, but also of the operations of agricul-

                                tural structural adjustment which is next in the program.

                                          You mentioned the problem of the health sector. We

                                are very concerned about the health sector and in the social

                                safety net.   One of the key things we took care of was to

                                make sure that the level of delivery of the health sector


....LEA II!POAT1NO, CO., INC.
'07 C Street. N.!!.
WashinllOR,   D.C. 20002
(202) '46-6666
nm                                                                                             83



                                  will remain at least the same as the existing one.

                                            On top of that, we made a special provision to make

                                  sure that the resource allocation for the purchase of

                                  medicine will be considerably increased.

                                            On energy, we are obviously trying to help the

                                  government to develop the gas methane project. We have a

                                  sector energy project in our lending program, and this 'is

                                  going to be dealt with in that context.

                                            The tariff increase in electricity is not at all

                                  incompatible with the effort to diversify and to industria-

                                  lize. The problem is that we cannot afford to have the

                                  electricity company to lose money. At this juncture, a large

                                  share of the electricity use in Rwanda is imported from

                                  neighboring countries, and is sold at a price which is below

                                  the price of companies. We have to put back a reasonable

                                  company on a financial situation which is appropriate.

                                            Concerning the risk, we raised the question of the

                                  risk not because we have a doubt that the government will

                                  implement the program; otherwise, we will not have presented

                                  it to the Board. But there were a number of important

                                  considerations in the case of Rwanda.

                                            First of all, Rwanda has been extremely reluctant

                                  for a number of reasons for a number of years to embark on an


MIUJ!PI III!f'OPlT1NG co., INC.
'07 C Sum:. N.E.
WubinCWn, D.C. 10001
 nm                                                                                          84


  ,-
                                adjustment program. So, given those hesitations which took

                                four to five years, we felt it was important to reassure the

                                Board that this period of hesitation was actually the reason

                                why we believe the government is committed to the program.

                                           On top of that, the government demonstrated its

                                commitment by taking some very, very politically sensitive

                                measures in the midst of the difficult political situation.

                                We have absolutely no doubt this program will be implemented.

                                           Interest rates:   Yes, of course, we are looking for

                                positive interest rates. At this juncture, interest rates are

                                positive in Rwanda. The inflation, the latest figures of

                                inflation shows us an inflation rate on an annual basis of 15

                                percent.   The interest rates are 19 percent. They are

                                positive for the first time.

                                           Now, obviously, we will have to review it and the

                                financial sector adjustment credit will obviously take care

                                of that.

                                           Exoneration of tax on public enterprises:   We don't

                                see any reasons why public enterprises should be exonerated.

                                They are enterprises like any enterprise. There is a need in.

                                Rwanda to improve the fiscal situation. All enterprises have

                                to be taxed, either if they are private or public.     There is

                                no discrimination.   If they have not been taxed in the past,


IllIU.f:R REPORTING CO., INC.
'07 C Sttcct. N.B.
Wuhinrton, D.C. 20002
(202) '46·6666
 run                                                                                            85



                                  well it is something which is being corrected.

                                            MR. CONABLE:     Mr. Carneiro has something he wants

                                  to follow-up on.

                                            MR. CARNEIRO:    A short follow-up.   I must have

                                  heard incorrectly the staff explanation on the coffee export

                                  tax.   I believe I have heard that the export tax was accep-

                                  table as it was the only income tax that was applied to the

                                  coffee sector. Can you please clarify this subject, because

                                  if this is the case, we are very much distorting some of our

                                  basic principles?

                                            MR. CONABLE:     What about real estate taxes?

                                            MR. JAYCOX;     This country doesn't have real estate

                                  taxes except in the Cities. This country doesn't have income

                                  taxes on small peasants.

                                            The only way that this sector can be taxed is

                                  through an export tax on the product. It is easy administra-

                                  tively and it is the only sector in this country.     It also

                                  is, as a result of devaluation, very profitable, even at the
                                  low prices.

                                            In fact, we don't want to not tax this product

                                  because we want to diversify. We certainly don't want to have

                                  this be a sinecure where everybody can make all the money

                                  they need, and they don't have to diversify. So, this is an


MIUIA fIEPOfmMG      co., IIIC.
'07 C Slreet. N.E.
Wubinswn. D.C. lOOOl
(102) ,46·666<>
nm                                                                                           86



                                economic policy where you tax every productive sector in as

                                uniform as possible way, but with certain incentives built in

                                to diversify, not to privilege this sector so much.

                                          It is the only source of income for the country.

                                It has to be taxed one way or the other.

                                          MR. CONABLE:    Wouldn't you also have a goal at

                                diversifying your revenue sources?

                                          MR. JAYCOX:    Sure.

                                          MR. CONABLE:    Yes.

                                          MR. JAYCOX:    But you can do that only if your

                                revenue take is larger than the administrative costs of

                                getting the take. And these things are under very careful

                                review with the IMF and the World Bank staff, looking at

                                these issues of how to raise revenues in a country like

                                Rwanda without dampening economic activity.

                                          There is nothing very secret about it. After the

                                devaluation, I think we should look at what percentage of the

                                world market price is actually going to end up in the hands

                                of the peasants. That is the bottom line because if it isn't

                                adequate, they will not produce coffee.

                                          MR. CONABLE:    Mr. AI-Assaf wants to follow up

                                perhaps on the issue of gas or perhaps on the issue of the

                                health sector.


MIlllA lII!PORTIHG CO ·· INC.
'07 C Sttttt. N.E.
Wuhinlltoa. D.C. 20002
(202) S46-6666
run                                                                                       87




                                       MR. AL-ASSAF: Well, the first one, Mr. Chairman.

                                       I thank Mr. Devaux for the response on the energy.

                             Actually, the electricity rates are important as far as the

                             competitiveness is concerned, but also the other side, the

                             petroleum which, as the document indicates, is substantially

                             higher than national prices, and the rates are already

                             increased by, I think, 67 percent and now the tariff.

                                       The question is obviously there is a budgetary

                             impact    I see Mr. Abu-zobaa there from the Fund -- this is

                             a very important element. But at the same time, how is this

                             reconciled with the attempts to promote exports?   When you

                             increase the inputs, obviously it affects the competitiveness.

                             And how would this increase affect the promotion of exports

                             and the diversification of such exports?

                                       So, there are two sides to that issue:   one, the

                             budgetary, which is important; the other is the structural

                             element and especially as far as exports are concerned.

                                       Thank you.

                                       MR. CONABLE:   Thank you.

                                       Before we answer that question, we have a follow-up

                             from Monsieur de Fontaine Vive.

                                       MR. DE FONTAINE VIVE:   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                       Two short follow-up points. The first one about the


MILlER REPORlTNG CO., INC.
'07 C Sttcct. N.E.
Washington. D.C. 20002
(202) '46·6666
run                                                                                           99



                                taxation on public enterprises, I never advocated for any

                                exemption.     I think my question was misunderstood.

                                             My question was I read in the last sentence in

                                paragraph 54 that all PEs are exempt from income taxes.       So,

                                that is your statement about the present situation, and that

                                is what I am challenging. And then when we are turning to the

                                action plan, which is supposed to be described on the

                                following paragraph, which is 55, I don't find anything about

                                that.

                                             That was my question. Why don't we have something

                                about that?     Is it an implicit part of the action?   That was

                                my question.

                                             My second follow-up is about the risk, the so-

                                called risk about the commitment of the government. The

                                explanation about the slow and the long discussion between

                                the government and the World Bank, among some other donors,

                                is given in paragraph 72 as the third risk. So, I don't see

                                any reason to have this risk about the commitment of the

                                government. As a matter of fact, I was wondering generally if

                                we could avoid such a paragraph in any loans because, as you

                                said, when you are presenting such a loan to the Board, we

                                think you have solved the problem.

                                             MR. CONABLE:   Mr. Jaycox, do you want to respond?


.. I.LER REPORTING CO., ING..
)07 C Strttt. N.Il.
Wub'ngton. D.C. 20002
(202) ~4'·'666
nm                                                                                            89



                                         MR. JAYCOX:     I will just speak to this last point.

                               What was meant to be said on risk was the internalization

                               process, not the will of government, but the fact that the

                               population has been fully brought onboard with respect both

                               to the aims and the trials and tribulations that the popula-

                               tion is going to have to go through.

                                         We do not feel that this is done very well in most

                               of Africa. We raised the issue that if the population is not

                               brought onboard in these projects, in these programs, they

                               are not explained to them properly, that, in fact, there will

                               be hitches in the implementation.     And this is raised not as

                               a question of political will but a question of internaliza-

                               tion.

                                         I think the paragraph has been misinterpreted. This

                               is the paragraph that we were both referring to earlier, I

                               believe. Is it not?     Have I responded to the question?

                                         MR. DE FONTAINE VlVE:     As usual, we fully agree

                               with Mr. Jaycox about Africa. So, I have no problem, but what

                               he is explaining about internalization, which is quite right,

                               is what you call the third risk on paragraph 72.

                                         MR. JAYCOX:     Yes. That is what I thought.

                                         MR. DE FONTAINE VIVE:     And I am not changing all

                               this which is really part of the process, because you need


IlILUR Rl!PORTING co .. INC.
)07 C Sueel. N .E.
WUhingtOll. D.C.     20002
(202) ,46-6666
nm                                                                                       90



                             this to be internalized in the process to have the full

                             support of not only the authorities, the government but all

                             people responsible on development of this country.

                                       What I was challenging is the previous one, which

                             is the 71 and which is only about government's willingness.

                             And this one I think could be avoided.

                                       MR. CONABLE:   Mr. Aguirre-Sacasa wants to respond

                             also.

                                       MR. AGUIRRE-SACASA:   Let me just say two or three

                             things.   Number one, the government demonstrated at a very

                             delicate moment, in fact during the moment of greatest

                             fighting back in October, that it was committed to the

                             adjustment program by taking many of the actions that Mr.

                             Devaux referred to.

                                        But there are vested interests in Rwanda, as there

                             are in many countries, that stand to lose from the adjustment

                             process. And some of these groups will clearly continue to

                             put pressure on the government to roll back under the

                             reforms. This happens in every country. And we have seen many

                             examples around the world of countries that.embark on an

                             adjustment program and then for diverse reasons, many of them

                             political, falloff of the adjustment track.

                                        Now, we are not meaning to cast any aspersions on


IILLER REPORTING CO., INC.
'07 C SU""t, N.E.
WutUnltOn, D.C. 20002
(.202) '46·6666
nm                                                                                           91



                             the Government of Rwanda's commitment to reform.       In fact, we

                             are very satisfied   th~t    the upfront actions that they have

                             taken bode well for the future of the adjustment process

                             there. But there is always a risk -- and that is what we were

                             trying to indicate here -- that at some point a constellation

                             of factors, changes of government, pressures from vested

                             interests in the country could cause the government to pause

                             and perhaps even roll back the reform.

                                       It is very difficult to predict what is going to

                             happen here. We feel comfortable that the Rwandese Government

                             is going to adhere to the reform process, but there is always

                             a small risk, Mr. de Fontaine Vive -- and that is what we are

                             trying to say here -- that government commitment at some

                             future date my slacken.

                                       That's all we are saying.

                                       MR. CONABLE:       He is expressing a risk, not a

                             prediction here, I take it.

                                       Monsieur de Fontaine vive says if there is any

                             danger, why do you

                                       MR. JAYCOX:       Obviously, we think it is a small

                             risk. And, in fact, I think it was put there to show that we

                             believe it is a small risk.

                                       You see, this country has been attacked from


MILLER REPORTING CO., INC.
'07 C SUeet. N.E.
Washington. D.C. 20002
(202) )46·6666
 nm                                                                                          92



                                 outside by dissidents. They have got their hands full there,

                                 both economically and politically. We thought there might be

                                 some skepticism on the part of the Board about the political

                                 ability of this government to actually carry out this project.

                                            I think we do not feel that way. We feel this

                                 government has demonstrated its upfront action, and I think

                                 what they were doing is anticipating their skepticism when

                                 this was written.

                                           However, I agree with Mr. de Fontaine Vive, we

                                 should not raise issues if they are not really big issues.

                                 So, we will take that as a lesson.

                                           MR. CONABLE:   All right.   Mr. Cox.

                                           MR. COX:   Mr. Chairman, allow me to get into this

                                 discussion as well briefly.

                                            I would hate to see staff limited in bringing to

                                 the Board's attention possible risks even though they are

                                 remote.   I think this particular section of the reports are

                                 appropriate there.

                                            I found as a lender for many years that risks

                                 rarely disappear by simply closing your eyes to them. At

                                 best, we look carefully at where the risks are and make sure

                                 that we address them appropriately as opposed to pretending

                                 that they aren't there or closing our eyes to them.


IoIIlL£lll REPOATIIO CO·· INC.
)07 C Strftt. N.E.
W:uhinglon. D.C.     20002
(202) S46-6666
run                                                                                        93



                                       So, I take into consideration clearly what my

                             colleague has said about why raise straw issues, issues that

                             don't exist.   And I think that is an appropriate conunent.        If

                             it is a risk, bring it up; if it isn't a risk, don't put it

                             in, don't raise it as a strawman. But for goodness sakes, I

                             would hate for staff to take that to be that we only want

                             selectively to raise risk issues at the Board.

                                       I think the risk issues, as staff perceives them,

                             should be fully put into the reports.

                                       MR. CONABLE:    I think it is a reflection of more

                             generalized experience than it is necessarily a prediction of

                             what is likely to happen in Rwanda.

                                       Yes, Mr. Jaycox.

                                       MR. JAYCOX:    If I may, I would like to answer Mr.

                             Rehm's question, or the implied question about where we

                             stand, where we are going with respect to regional cooperation

                             and economic integration for these landlocked countries, not

                             only the landlocked countries but all the small economies of

                             Africa.

                                       In our Long-Term Perspective Study, we set out a

                             perspective, if you will, of an increasing cooperation

                             amongst African states on the economic front. Clearly, they

                             are not highly complementary economies to begin with, in many


MILLER REPORTING CO.. INC.
,07 C Sm:et. N,J!,
WUhinCIOll. D.C. 20002
(20l) ,46-6666
run                                                                                      94



                             respects competitive in their export markets at least. They

                             are certainly not competitive in their import side. And we

                             feel that with an expanded cooperation, there can be a whole

                             new wave of very economically justified import substitution

                             possibilities in Africa.

                                        Furthermore, there are all kinds of possibilities

                             of mergers and acquisitions between companies that have been

                             set up on too small a scale in the past and which would

                             benefit from a wider market integration financially and in

                             terms of corporate structure, diversification of products,

                             specialization, all the things that lead to efficiencies in

                             manufacturing and processing of agricultural products.

                                        There does exist now in this part of Africa the

                             preferential trade area, the PTA of Eastern and Southern

                             Africa.    Rwanda is a member, and all of its neighbors are

                             members.   They are in many ways finding their way at the

                             moment.

                                        We are trying to assist them with basically good

                             ideas which can be the basis for international negotiation of

                             certain new arrangements.

                                         It is not easy to start, as I say, with competitive

                             economies and aim toward complementary ones, where indeed the

                             allocation of industries and so forth can be politically so


IlIUER REPORTING CO., tNt.
'07 C Strut. N .E.
WuhinJlO!l. D.C. 20002
(202) %6666
run                                                                                          95



                               attractive that, in fact, it breaks down, that the cooperation

                               breaks down.

                                           But we feel that at least this PTA organization is

                               off to a start which we can support, and hopefully we are

                               going to be able to do that both financially as well as up

                               till now technically.

                                           You mentioned Pays des Grands Lac in Central

                               Africa. This is also an entity.     There are lot of these

                               ~ntities.    In fact, there are over 100 cooperative, interna-

                               tional cooperative entities now in Africa.     Most of them are

                               dead letters.    Many of them really have no support from their

                               membership. At least they don't pay their dues, and, as a

                               result, they can't pay their staffs. So, they cannot function.

                                           I think sorting out has to be done as to which one

                               of these is worthy of development.     I am not sure that

                               outsiders can make those choices, but it is very important

                               that we start a process whereby some kind of selectivity is

                               fostered and indeed Africa puts forward a fewer number with

                               greater possibilities for economic cooperation.

                                           MR. CONABLE:   Are there further follow-up questions?

                                           Mr. Graham-Harrison.

                                           MR. GRAHAM-HARRISON:   Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

                                           I have got a long list of points, but fortunately


MLLI!fI RI!POHTlHG CO., INC.
'07 C SIl«t. N.E.
Wuhingtcn. D.C. 20002
(202) H6-6666
 nm                                                                                        96



                               they have all been addressed in the excellent responses we

                               have had this morning from the staff and in some prior

                               discussion. We had some concerns about, for instance, the

                               Ministry of Capacity in relation to the open general licens-

                               ing, and on coffee the need for diversification, emphasis on

                               quality rather than expansion of acreage.

                                         So, I am just left with the wish to welcome this

                               project and, even though it is not perhaps strictly in order,

                               the population project too.

                                         Thank you.

                                         MR. CONABLE:     Thank you.

                                         Mr. AI-Assaf.

                                         MR. AL-ASSAF:     I had a question, Mr. Chairman, that

                               was buried somewhere.     It wasn't answered about the recon-

                               ciliation between the budgetary impact and the competitiveness

                               issue.

                                         MR. DEVAUX:     The cost of petroleum has obviously an

                               impact on the competitiveness of --

                                         MR. CONABLE:     Please speak up, Mr. Devaux.

                                         MR. DEVAUX:     Sorry. The cost of petroleum products

                               has obviously an impact on the competitivity.     You have to

                               export coffee. There is no question about it.

                                         On the other hand, if we want to get revenues, we


MILL£R Rll!PORTING CO., INC.
~01   C SU«t. N.S.
WoshinltoR. D.C. 20002
{lO2l )46.6666
nm                                                                                          97



                              have to tax petroleum. And it is one of the easy ways to tax

                              things and to get revenues.

                                        Taxing petroleum does not affect the industrial

                              sector as such, because the industrial sector is minute; it

                              is very small.

                                        MR. CONABLE:    It is very small.

                                        MR. DEVAUX:    The only thing which it affects is the

                              transportation of coffee and the cost of importing goods.

                                        MR. CONABLE:   Mr. Aguirre-Sacasa.

                                        MR. AGUIRRE-SACASA:    Some years ago, many years

                              ago, in fact, we did a study, I did a study on the impact on

                              the industrial sector of energy costs.    And what we found was

                              that of the cost structure of industry, energy costs tended

                              to be very low, as low as 10 percent, and even lower in some

                              cases.

                                        What we are trying to do here in Rwanda through

                              this policy framework and the first structural adjustment

                              loan is to get this government and this country really to

                              make greater use of its most abundant resource, which is its

                              people.

,-                                      One of the problems with the industrial sector

                              right now in Rwanda is that it is very small.    It is very

                              highly protected.   It has benefitted from zero tariffs on the


MIlL£R REPORTIHQ CO .. INC.
~07   C Stn:c,. N.E.
Washington, D.C. 20002
(202) )46-6666
run                                                                                                        98



                                  importation of a lot of capital goods. So, it is very

                                  capital-intensive,            an~   it is singularly inefficient, incapable

                                  of exporting essentially.

                                               We are trying to pursue here the setting in place

                                  of a policy framework that will allow the development of

                                  industries that will be more export-oriented, that will be

                                  more efficient, and that will be making much greater use of

                                  manpower, and where energy costs will be even lower than they

                                  are today in Rwanda.

                                               MR. CONABLE:           Mr. AI-Assaf.

                                                MR. AL-ASSAF:          Mr. Chairman,   I   think it was last

                                  week when we discussed the Senegal transportation sector, and

                                  it was clear at that time that the impact of the high cost of

                                  energy -- and also that was the case in other countries --

                                  and   I   think, despite the small size of the industrial sector

                                  in Rwanda,     I    am sure it has an impact, whether it is in the

                                  industrial sector or agriculture, other products, not

                                  necessarily coffee.

                                                So,    I   believe it has an impact, like other countries       r



                                  in Africa, and we should have a closer look at it, especially

                                  that these prices are, as I mentioned, substantially higher

                                  than international levels and neighboring countries, regional

                                  competitiveness,          I   think, is important here.


IIIIU..1f1 fWIOIITDlO CO.. 'MC.
~07   C Suect. N.E.
Wuhincton, D.C. 10002
(2Q2) )46·6666
run                                                                                           99



                                           MR. CONABLE:    Mr. Jaycox.

                                           MR. JAYCOX:     Perhaps we should go back just a

                                 little bit over the Senegal issue.      In Senegal, we have an

                                 absolute crisis in competitiveness. The country cannot change

                                 its exchange rate.   It has to. reduce the civil service

                                 dramatically and the nominal wages eventually of all the

                                 formal sector.    It has to also reduce the prices of every

                                 kind of input to industrial activity in order to become

                                 competitive if it cannot change its exchange rate.

                                           And in so doing, it is going to forego some of the

                                 major receipts.   Now, we do not advocate this point of view

                                 for a country that does have the flexibility. We find that

                                 what I am talking about has a highly deflationary effect on

                                 the economy in many cases, and it is a very, very difficult,

                                 most difficult course of structural adjustment.

                                           In Rwanda we don't have this problem, but we need

                                 the revenues. This economy will not be able to be stabilized

                                 without these revenues.

                                           There aren't any other sources of revenues. This is

                                 a very small economy.     Its coffee and imports have to pay for

                                 everything -- schools, clinics, everything. And if they are

                                 not available, then they run deficits. And if they run

                                 deficits, then they have to continuously devalue their


MLLER REPOl'ITM      co.. INC.
507 C Sa-cct. N.E.
Wuhinpcm. D.C. 20002
(202) )46.6666
run                                                                                             100



                                  currency.

                                              So, we don't have all these options.   I think the

                                  balances that have been taken in the case       I mean, obviously

                                  we are not going to so tax petroleum that we put productive

                                  enterprises out of business; obviously not.

                                              We are not going to tax exports of anything to the

                                  extent that we somehow can inhibit one bag of exportable

                                  coffee to leave the country. That is not the objective. The

                                  objective is to balance these things, get the revenues and

                                  get the productive activity.

                                              I don't know if we need input from the IMF, but I

                                  mean these are the kind of considerations that go into these

                                  recommendations. We don't just go after revenue in a blind

                                  feeding frenzy.    Obviously, where we go for it depends on

                                  what kind of economic impact it has.

                                              MR. CONABLE:   Mr. AI-Assaf is afraid you are going

                                  after it in a blind fueling frenzy.

                                              (Laughter. )

                                              MR. CONABLE:   I think it is a matter of keeping a

                                  perspective and considering alternatives.

                                              Mr. Aguirre-Sacasa, do you want to say something

                                  further?

                                              MR. AGUIRRE-SACASA:   Just two small additional


IlILU!A RI!II'OATING CO ·· INC.
107 CSactt. N.I!.
Wahington. D.C. 20002
(202) )46..6666
 nm                                                                                         101



                                points.

                                          On the amount of remuneration in effect paid to the

                                Rwandan small coffee producer, we estimate that it is about

                                75 percent of the world market price even after the taxes

                                that are paid. So, this is one of the highest retention

                                rates, if you will, of any country.

                                          MR. CONABLE:   In Africa.

                                          MR. AGUIRRE-SACASA:     In fact, one of the big

                                problems that we have had in Rwanda all along is that the

                                producer price for coffee in Rwanda has been very high, and

                                there has actually been a subsidy from the government to the

                                coffee producer.

                                          On the gasoline or petroleum derivative prices, at

                                today's exchange rate a gallon of high test gasoline in

                                Kigali retails for about $3.80.     It is lower than in many

                                European countries, and when you consider the distance from

                                Mombasa and from Dar es Salaam, the ports from which this

                                gasoline is brought, it is not, in our view, excessively high.

                                          MR. CONABLE:   All right.    I don't think Mr. Al-

                                Assaf is going to agree with you easily on this.

                                          (Laughter. )

                                          MR. CONABLE:   But his point of view has been

                                carefully expressed.


MILLEI'! AEPOIITING CO., 1Ne.
~7   C Strc:c:t, N.J!.
WubinglOn, D.C. 20002
(202) )46-6666
 run                                                                                          102



                                             Are there further comments or questions?

                                             (No response.)

                                             MR. CONABLE:     If not, the minutes will show the

                                   Executive Directors approve the credit on the terms proposed .


                                                                                              ·

                                   _.
                                                                                        ·


                                            --
                                            --                               -
MlLl..lfI fI!POA'I'INO CO., INC.
107 C Sueu. N.Ii.
Washingtoa. D.C. 20002
(lO2) )46.6666
