Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 11740
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
(LOAN 2323-IVC)
MARCH 23, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Franc CFA (FCFA)
US$1.00       =  CFAF 265
CFAF 100       =  US$0.377
AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES
YEAR                  CFAF                   US$
1983                  381                    1.00
1984                  437                    1.00
1985                  449                    1.00
1986                  346                    1.00
1987                  301                    1.00
1988                  298                    1.00
1989                  319                    1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APROMAC    Association des Producteurs et
Manufacturiers de Caoutchouc Naturel
BNDA           Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole
CAA            Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCP            Compagnie de Caoutchoucs de Pakidie
CDC           Commonwealth Development Corporation
CPDH           Centre Pilote de Developpement Heveicole
DCGTx          Direction et Contr8le des Grands Travaux
DHE            Domaine H6veicole de l'Etat
DPBCG         Direction de la Planification, Budgetisation et
Controle de Gestion
FED            Fonds Europeen de Developpement
GMPH          Groupement de Moyennes Plantations Heveicoles
HEVEGO         Soci&6 Heveicole de G8
IRCA           Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc
JAMH           Jeunes Agriculteurs Modernes d'Hev6as
MEFCP          Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances, du Commerce et du Plan
MESRS          Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et
de la Recherche Scientifique
MINAGRA        Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales
PHI            Planteurs Heveicoles Independants
PMPH           Petites et Moyennes Plantations Heveicoles
PVH            Plantations Villageoises Heveicoles
SAPH           Societ6 Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas
SIPH           Societ6 Internationale de Plantation d'H6v6as
SOGB           Soci6te des Caoutchoucs de Grand-Berby
FISCAL YEAR
Government        January 1 to December 31
HEVEGO, SAPH, SOGB: October 1 to September 30



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dlrector-General
Operations Evaluatlon
March 23, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Cote D'Ivoire
Fourth Rubber Project (Loan 2323-IVC)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled 'Project Completion Report on Cote D'Ivoire
Fourth Rubber Project (Loan 2323-IVC)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with a Part II
contributed by the Borrower. The report is comprehensive and of satisfactory quality.
The project aimed to bring to maturity 16,000 ha of nucleus estate and outgrower
rubber planted under previously Bank-financed projects, and establish 7,400 ha of additional estate
and outgrower rubber and associated processing facilities. It satisfactorily achieved most of its
appraisal targets, after a two-year extension.  The quality of the established rubber and its
maintenance is reported to be very satisfactory, and the standards of tapping in both estate and
outgrower areas are described as high.
The economic rate of return has been reestimated as 12 percent in contrast to an
appraisal estimate of 15 percent. The lower return is attributable chiefly to a decline in the
international rubber price forecast since appraisal in 1981. Institutional development has been
substantial, and sustainability is likely provided the rubber export price outlook does not deteriorate
further. Overall, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
An audit will not be carried out, but an impact evaluation for the entire line of
lending, which includes three earlier projects and an on-going Fifth Rubber Project may be
considered in a year or two.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I         I    li 



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
(LOAN 2323-IVC)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................-------------i.
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.      Project Identity .      .....................................   1
B.      Background ........................................1 
C.      Project Objectives and Description  .........................  1
D.      Project Design and Organization ...........................  2
E.      Project Implementation .........              ........................  3
F.      Project Results .       .....................................  4
G.      Project Impact .        .....................................  5
H.      Project Sustainability ..........            ........................  5
E.      Bank Performance .          ...................................  7
J.      Borrower Performance .........                ........................  7
K.      Project Relationship ..........            ........................    9
L.      Consulting Services ..........             ........................    9
M.      Project Documentation and Data ..........................    9
PART II:        PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   ....                           ........  10
PART III:       STATISTICAL INFORMATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ....                               ......  17
Map IBRD No. 16743R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
(LOAN 2323-IVC)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Rubber Project in CMte
d'Ivoire, for which Loan 2323-IVC in the amount of US$32.2 million was approved on June 23, 1983.
The project was cofinanced by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) through loans of US$21.2 million and US$14.0 million
equivalent respectively. The Loan Agreement became effective on June 15, 1984. The Loan was closed
on September 30, 1991, two years behind schedule. At that time, the loan was not fully disbursed. Final
disbursements took place in August 31, 1992. As of that date, US$31.6 million (98% of the loan
amount) was disbursed and the unused balance (US$0.6 million) was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Abidjan-based Agriculture Section
(AF1AA) of the Agriculture Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department. There
were sent to Government, implementing agencies and cofinanciers in April 1992. No formal comments
were received. However, Bank's draft report was discussed with implementing agencies and their
comments were incorporated in the report. Only one of the three implementing agencies (HEVEGO)
submitted a contribution to Part II.
Preparation of the PCR started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project
in December 1991, and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, the Project
Agreement, supervision reports, implementing agencies' and co-financiers' reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower and the implementing entities, and internal Banlk memoranda.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
(LOAN 2323-IVC)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives
1.           The objectives of the Fourth Rubber Project were to bring to maturity 16,000 ha of estate
and outgrowers rubber planted under the previous Bank-financed rubber project, establish 7,400 ha of
additional estate and outgrowers plantations, and complete the necessary infrastructure and processing
facilities for handling the additional production. The project was part of Government's long-term rubber
development plan launched in 1973 (supported by three previous Bank loans) to diversify the country's
agricultural production and rural incomes.
Implementation Experience
2.           Project costs were estimated at US$84.8 million of which the Bank Loan financed
US$32.2 million. CCCE and CDC cofinanced the project with loans of US$14.0 million equivalent
respectively. The Loan became effective on June 15, 1984 and closed, with a two year delay, on
September 30, 1991. The project was successfully implemented. The physical targets set at appraisal
were largely achieved and 98% of the proceeds of Loan 2323-IVC was disbursed at the end of the
project. The two main deviations from appraisal were that the actual costs of individual project
components varied from 64 to 132% of appraisal estimates, and the creation of HEVEGO took four years
more than foreseen at appraisal (para 8). Two of the risks envisaged at appraisal were well identified:
the shortage of rubber tappers and the decline of world market prices. SAPH and SOGB solved the
problem of fast turnover of rubber tappers on their estates by introducing attractive incentives and
establishing effective tapper training courses. The decline in rubber prices was more brutal than foreseen:
the average price realized in 1985 was 72% of appraisal estimate and the latest price projection for 1995
is only 60% of appraisal estimate. The risk of encroachment by migrant farmers on land set aside for
the project, however, was not foreseen at appraisal; because of the four years delay in creating
HEVEGO, the number of farmers settled on land given by the Government for the establishment of its
research plantation, increased from 206 in 1981 to 473 in 1991 (paras 9 to 13).
Project Results and Impact
3.           The project clearly contributed to Government's objectives of agricultural diversification
and income-generation in rural areas. The four major components, (i) creation/consolidation of industrial
plantations as poles of rubber development; (ii) establishment of



- iv -
outgrowers plantations; (iii) rubber research; and (iv) studies, were generally well executed (paras 14 to
19).
4.            (i) Industrial plantations. At Grand-Bereby, SOGB brought 10,500 ha to maturity (100%
of appraisal estimate), expanded its factory and completed the plantation infrastructure. At Bettie, SAPH
brought 2,041 ha to production (100% of appraisal estimate), and established the plantation infrastructure
and rubber factory. At Cavally, SAPH planted 2,042 ha (102% of appraisal estimate), and constructed
essential estate infrastructure.
5.            (ii) Outgrowers Plantations. SAPH provided extension services and agricultural inputs
to farmers cultivating 3,529 ha rubber established under the previous rubber projects, and assisted
smallholders in planting 3,563 ha of new rubber plantations (100 % of appraisal estimate). The creation
of 400 ha outgrowers plantations around the Cavally nucleus estate was deferred because construction of
processing facilities, not foreseen under the project, was postponed.
6.            (iii) Rubber Research. Mainly due to administrative and legal problems, HEVEGO's
legal constitution was delayed by nearly four years until August 27, 1987. The loan was extended twice
for allowing HEVEGO to complete its planned investment program. At loan closing date, 1,259 ha had
been planted (84% of the appraisal target). The completion of the first phase of HEVEGO's investment
program is being carried out under the Bank-financed Fifth Rubber Project (Loan 2874-IVC).
7.            (iv) Studie . Studies were envisaged at appraisal to complement a Rubber Master Plan
prepared by MINAGRA in 1982, including the identification of new sites in the South West for future
rubber growing. The Para/Grabo area, located near the Tai National Park, was identified as a promising
new pole for rubber development. However, because of increasing land constraints and priority given
to the conservation of natural forests, this site was abandoned. Other studies financed the preparation
of a pilot project for industrial rubber waste control and the mapping of existing smallholders' plantations.
Sustainabil ity
8.            The sustainability of project's actions to promote rubber development will be largely
determined by the ability of the industrial rubber growers/processors to generate a satisfactory return on
their investments and of the rubber outgrowers to obtain attractive revenues from their holdings. The
major determining factor will therefore be the export price obtained by processors (SAPH and SOGB),
the farmgate price paid to outgrowers by these processors, and their unitcost of production. The financial
performance of SOGB, operating the Grand-Bereby plantation (yielding a world record of 2.2 MT of dry
rubber per ha), is satisfactory and its economic rate or return (ERR) of 16.4% is higher than the appraisal
estimate of 13.5%. The outlook for the Bettie nucleus estate (yielding only 1.5 MT/ha), with a
recalculated ERR of 10% (against 15% at appraisal) is less clear. Its financial and economic viability
will remain marginal unless significant improvements are made in agricultural/agroindustrial productivity
and rubber export prices improve. Smallholder farmgate prices, linked to world market prices, suffered
a decline of 20% over the past two years. At present farmgate prices (CFAF 140/kg), the net annual
financial return after debt service estimated at CFAF 190,000 per ha still provides smallholders an
attractive remuneration of some
CFAF 3,000/laborday and an incentive to continue maintaining and tapping their plantations (paras 20
to 24).



Findings and Lessons Learned
9.            There are four important lessons from the project. Qne, at the planning and appraisal
stage of project preparation, greater attention should have been given to emerging land constraints and
to agricultural encroachment. In the future, given Government's policy of strict protection of gazetted
forest, and dynamics of agricultural settlement, it will be difficult to create large estates to open new
poles of rubber development. The latter will need to be based essentially on smallholder and medium-
scale (private) plantations. Two, the financial and economic viability of smallholder plantations heavily
depends on the quality of plantation establishment and maintenance/tapping.  In the future, with
Government transferring its responsibility for the provision of the necessary inputs and extension services
to the newly created National Rubber Planters Association, a particular attention will need to be given
to ensuring the quality of these services. Three, the profitability of rubber plantations, industrial and
small-holder, also critically depends on the efficiency of downstream processing and marketing
operations.  Government's decision to fully privatize the existing industrial plantation/processing
enterprises, along with measures to increase competition in the sector, should promote the necessary cost-
cutting measures and overall competitiveness. Four, with the withdrawal of Government from directly
productive activities in the rubber sector, future development will be entirely based on private sector
initiative and on private operators' satisfactory access to long-term credit for financing the necessary
investments. The provision of credit to project farmers collapsed with the bankruptcy of BNDA in
October 1991, and an alternative mechanism has yet to be established to provide credit for private rubber
investments. A new credit system should be set up rapidly if future expansion of rubber, a most
promising diversification crop, is to be promoted.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
(LOAN 2323-IVC)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.           Project Identity
Project Name               Fourth Rubber Project
Loan No.                   2323-IVC
RVP Unit                   Africa Regional Office
Country                    Republic of COte d'Ivoire
Sector              :      Agriculture
Sub-sector                 Perennial Tree Crops
B.           Background
1.           Agriculture is the mainstay of COte d'Ivoire's economy, and will remain the predominant
factor of CMte d'Ivoire's economic growth over the next decade. It accounts for about 35 percent of GDP
and over 60 percent of all merchandise exports, and provides employment to 77 percent of the total labor
force. Food crops account for about 50% of the Agricultural GDP. The main cash crops are cocoa,
coffee and, to a lesser extent, cotton, pineapples and bananas. Together, cocoa and coffee account for
60% of the area under cultivation and almost 50% of the country's total export earnings. To diminish
the country's growing dependency on cocoa and coffee, the Government has introduced since the early
1970s a number of major new initiatives to diversify agricultural production and incomes. Rubber,
introduced on a small scale by private operators already in 1953, was identified by Government at the
beginning of the 1970s as a very promising diversification crop.
2.           The Government embarked upon a large-scale rubber development program in 1973 and,
by the end of 1984, some 41,000 ha of rubber had been planted with assistance from external sources
(Bank, CCCE, and CDC) for a total amount of about US$74 million. The Bank's share was US$36
million through three Bank Loans (938-IVC, 1575-IVC and 1633-IVC). The First and Second Loans
financed the creation of a new 13,500 ha industrial estate at Grand-Bereby, in the South West region of
the country. The Third Loan financed the establishment of new industrial and smallholder plantations
around the existing industrial estates at Toupah, Anguededou, Bettie and Bongo. Goverrunent's overall
objective calls for the establishment of 78,000 ha of rubber plantations and the production of some
200,000 tons of dried rubber by the year 2000. To reach this objective, the Governnent requested in
1981 Bank's support for the financing of an additional tranche of some 7,400 ha, under a Fourth Rubber
Project.
C.           Project Objectives and Description
3.           The project was appraised by the Bank, jointly with CCCE, and CDC, in early 1982.
Total project costs were estimated at US$84.8 million, of which the Bank would finance US$32.2 million.
Loan 2323-IVC was signed on July 14, 1983, became effective on June 15, 1984, and was closed on



-2-
September 30, 1991.
4.            Objectives. The project's main objectives were to (i) bring to maturity 16,000 ha of
estate and outgrowers rubber planted under the previous Bank-financed project, (ii) establish 7,400 ha
of additional estate and outgrowers plantations, and (iii) complete the necessary infrastructure and
processing facilities for handling the projected additional production.
5.            Description. The project was to be implemented over a four and half year period by four
implementing agencies: the Societe Africaine des
Plantations d'Heveas (SAPH), the Societe des Caoutchoucs de Grand-Bereby (SOGB), the Societe
Hev6icole de Go (HEVEGO) and the Banque Nationale pour leppement Agricole (BNDA). Its major
components were:
(i)    industrial plantations: (a) Grand-Bereby Estate: SOGB to bring into
production about 10,500 ha of existing plantations, expand the factory,
complete the estate infrastructure and acquire the necessary vehicles and
equipment; (b) Bettie Estate: SAPH to bring to maturity about 2,000
ha of existing plantations, construct a rubber factory, establish the
plantation infrastructure and acquire vehicles and equipment; and (c)
Cavally Estate: SAPH to plant some 2,000 ha of new rubber and develop
the necessary plantation infrastructure.
(ii)   outgrowers plantations:  SAPH  to provide extension services and
agricultural inputs (financed through subloans from BNDA) to
outgrowers for the establishment of 3,900 ha of new plantations and the
maintenance of 3,000 ha of existing ones.
(iii)  rubber research.Creation of a new research institution in the South West region
(HEVEGO) with the establishment of 1,500 ha of plantations to implement
agreed-upon research programs and test research results on an industrial scale;
and
(iv)   studie. Completion of the country's rubber development master plan.
D.            Proiect Design and Organization
6.            The project was designed on the same institutional basis (nucleus estate -cum- smallholder
plantations) as under the previous Bank-financed loans. However, the relative emphasis shifted from
estate to outgrowers plantations (2,000 ha of new industrial plantations and 3,900 ha of new outgrowers
plantings). A major innovation was the creation of HEVEGO as a joint venture between the Government
and the country's rubber industry (para 18), and with the public rubber research institute (IRCA-CI)
providing technical assistance to HEVEGO.
7.            Organization. Project execution was carried out by the four implementing agencies
(SOGB, SAPH, HEVEGO and BNDA), each under its specific contract or agreement. Overall
supervision of project implementation was carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRA), the
Ministry of Scientific Research and by the Direction et Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTx), a
parastatal directly attached to the Presidency and responsible for the technical supervision of all public



-3-
investment programs.
E.            Project Implementation
8.           The project was successfully implemented. However, full implementation required two
extensions of the Loan closing date, for a total of two years, from September 30, 1989 to September 30,
1991. The physical targets set at appraisal were in general achieved. The two main deviations from
appraisal were that:
(i)   the actual costs of project components were out of
line with projections, ranging from 64 to 132% of appraisal estimates; and
(ii)   the creation of HEVEGO  took four years more than foreseen at
appraisal.
9.           Two of the tisks envisaged at project appraisal were, in retrospect, well identified. These
were: (a) shortage of rubber tappers, and (b) declining international rubber prices. ENQ  foreseen
however, was the fast encroachment by (usually coffee/cocoa) farmers on land set aside by the
Government for rubber development under the project.
10.          Shortage of rubber tappers.  SAPH and SOGB solved the problem of fast turnover of
rubber tappers, for their plantations, by establishing very effective rubber tapping training courses and
introducing incentives to rubber tappers (attractive tapping rates and premium payment for quality
tapping). With outgrowers, the main problem was not so much the shortage of tappers, but the quality
of tapping. Although outgrowers are undergoing the same rigorous training in tapping techniques, they
tend to relinquish the required strict discipline (and skill) in tapping, or delegate tapping responsibility
to inadequately trained salaried labor. To curb these negative attitudes, extension agents put a specific
emphasis on the importance of tapping on sustaining high yields throughout the rubber tree's economic
life.
i1.          Rubber World Market Prices. A major negative deviation from project estimates was the
decline of rubber prices on world markets. Projections were that prices per ton would be US$1,270 in
1985 (in current terms) and increase to US$1,520 in 1995. The average price realized in 1985 was
US$920 (72% of appraisal estimate) and the latest price projection for 1995 is US$860 (57% of appraisal
estimate). This decline had very negative consequences for the economic and financial returns from
rubber plantations (paras 20-24).
12.          Agricultural Encroachment. During project preparation, it was found that about 200
farmers had established 450 ha of coffee/cocoa plantations on the concession Government intended to give
to HEVEGO to establish its research center. At negotiations, Government gave assurances that those
farmers, who would have to be relocated, would be properly compensated for the loss of their plantations,
in accordance with existing laws. However, because of the four years delay in creating HEVEGO (para
18) and the dynamics of agricultural encroachment in the region, the number of farmers on the concession
had more than doubled (to 473) when HEVEGO finally launched its operations in 1987, and the planted
area had increased more than fourfold to 1,900 ha. Government and HEVEGO established a detailed
procedure to identify the farmers eligible for compensation and calculate compensation amounts. As of
September 30, 1991, 473 farmers received a total of CFAF 378.8 million in compensation for abandoning
1,900 ha of plantations. The compensation amounted on average to CFAF 200,000 per ha (US$700),



-4 -
which represented an additional cost of land development not foreseen at appraisal. In addition, and at
the request of the Bank, HEVEGO prepared a program to help concerned farmers to resettle in productive
activities. Under this program, approved by the Bank, two options were offered to farmers: (i) becoming
salaried employees of HEVEGO, or (ii) establishing themselves as rubber outgrowers under HEVEGO's
guidance. Government requested, and the Bank agreed, that the Bank Loan be used to finance part of
this cost. The Loan Agreement was amended on November 17, 1987 to do so. However, neither of
these options was accepted by the farmers who, instead, opted to use the compensation funds for either
resettling themselves in areas and activities of their choice (usually cocoa plantations), or establishing
themselves as small traders or artisans.
13.          Given the previously mentioned high population growth and dynamics of agricultural
settlement in COte d'Ivoire, competition for land in the forest region will intensify in the future with the
consequences that large, single block industrial plantations will be more and more difficult to establish.
Rubber development will need to be based on medium-scale (private) estates, established on available
fallow or very degraded forests, and on smallholder plantations.
F.            Project Results
(i)           Industrial Plantations
14.          SOG. At Grand-Bereby, of the total area of 13,873 ha under rubber, 13,526 ha was
in production at loan closing date, yielding 2.22 MT ( a world record) of dry rubber per ha. The rubber
factory was expanded and the plantation infrastructure was established. Part of the extension of the
factory and plantation infrastructure (villages) was to be financed on SOGB own resources. However,
falling rubber prices prevented the generation of enough internal cash flow to finance these investments.
The project's external co-financiers accepted Government's request for providing additional funds to
finance these developments. To do so, the Bank agreed to reallocate funds amongst categories of its loan
and amended the Loan accordingly on November 17, 1987.
15.          SAPH. At the Bettie estate, the total planted area of 2,041 ha was brought in production,
the housing and road infrastructure was established, and the rubber factory was constructed, producing
some 3,130 MT of dry rubber during the 1990/91 season. At the Cavally estate, 2,042 ha were
established (2,000 ha envisaged at appraisal), and road and essential infrastructure were created.
(ii)          Outgrowers Plantations
16.          In the South East region, SAPH provided extension services and agricultural inputs,
through BNDA subloans, for ete maintenance of 3,529 ha of smallholders plantations established under
the previous Bank-financed project, and, for the planting of 3,563 ha under the present project (3,500 ha
projected). The establishment of some 400 ha outgrowers plantations around Cavally Estate, in the South
West region of the country, was deferred because processing facilities at the Cavally nucleus estate were
not yet constructed, but is now being realized under the Rubber V Project.
(iii)        Rubber Research
17.          Rubber research in Cote d'Ivoire, carried out by the Institut de Recherches sur le
Caoutchouc (IRCA), has been internationally recognized as outstanding. It contributed substantially to
the national rubber development program by providing planting material and techniques well adapted to
local conditions. With limited expansion possibilities at the existing IRCA research station located in the
South East region of COte d'Ivoire (Bimbresso), Government decided to create a new research center in
the South West region (near San Pedro), an area very favorable to rubber development. Following



-5-
discussions with the donors financing the Fourth Rubber Project, it was agreed that a separate, financially
autonomous, research structure (HEVEGO) would be established, under the joint ownership of the State
and the main economic operators in the rubber sub-sector. HEVEGO was to be created before June 30,
1983. However, administrative and legal problems delayed its creation by nearly four years until August
27, 1987. The Loan closing date was extended twice, from September 30 1989 to September 30, 1991,
for allowing HEVEGO to complete its planned planting program. At project closing, 1,259 ha had been
planted, or 84% of appraisal target (1,500 ha). HEVEGO's operations are now being financed under the
Fifth Rubber Project (Ln. 2874-IVC).
(iv)
18.          Additional studies were envisaged to complement the Rubber Master Plan prepared by
MINAGRI in 1982, including the identification of new sites for future rubber development. After
detailed field surveys, the Para/Grabo area in the South West was identified as a promising new pole for
rubber development. However, because of increasing land constraints and also of the priority given to
the conservation of natural forests, Government decided in 1990 to reassess its policy of promoting rubber
development by opening up new large scale industrial plantations -clearing natural tropical forests in the
process- and the Grabo/Para site, located near the TaT National Park, was abandoned. Other studies
undertaken were on preparing a pilot project of industrial rubber wastewater control and on mapping the
existing smallholders plantations.
G.            Proiect ImDact
19.          The project clearly contributed to Government's objectives of agricultural diversification
and income-generation in rural areas. About 16,000 ha of plantations established under previous projects
were brought into production. About 5,600 ha of new plantations were established (15% of pre-project
area under rubber), of which 3,563 ha by 888 small farmers. By contributing to (i) the establishment
of a new pole of rubber development at Cavally and (ii) the expansion of the outgrowers rubber program
in the South West, the project contributed directly to the creation of employment, the development of
professional skills, and the improvement of living conditions in areas which had not previously fully
participated in the economic and social development of the country. The SAPH plantations now operate
14 schools and 22 dispensaries, while the hospital at SOGB's plantation at Grand-Brby is the only one
in the area.
H.            Project Sustainabilit
20.          The sustainability of actions undertaken to promote rubber development in general, and
rubber planting by smallholders in particular, will be largely determined by the ability of the investments
financed under the project to generate enough benefits to fully recover the costs of production,
processing, and agricultural services to farmers, and still leave attractive revenues to primary producers.
The major determining factors of sustainability will therefore be the price (FOB, Abidjan), in foreign
currency and in CFAF, obtained by the industrial processors (SAPH and SOGB) for their produce,
processing/marketing costs, and the farmgate price paid to outgrowers by those processors. On the basis
of reasonable projections concerning these parameters, it is estimated that the industrial plantations and
smallholder plantations would be financially and economically viable, and therefore the project's
achievements sustainable, in the long-term.
(i)           Industrial Plantations



- 6 -
21.           The financial performance of SOGB's Grand-Bereby industrial plantation (planted area
of 13,873 with 97% in production, yielding 30,000 MT, at a total value of some CFAF 7,700 million
during the 1990/91 season) is satisfactory, although net results dropped sharply during the 89/90 and
90/91 seasons as a result of declining world market prices. Management has taken measures to improve
profitability by reducing overhead and production costs, and by changing its product mix to products
which offer a higher profit margin at current world market price. Provided that the latter do not
deteriorate further, SOGB's long-term financial prospects are good. Negotiations on privatizing SOGB
have been initiated in early 1992 and are proceeding satisfactorily. Based on current and projected world
market prices, and following the appraisal methodology, the economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project's Grand Bdreby component has been recalculated at 16.4%, higher than the appraisal estimates
of 13.5%. This good performance achieved in spite of international rubber prices much lower than
projected at appraisal, is due to the effective measures taken by SOGB's management to reduce overhead
and production costs. A realignment of exchange rates would have a very beneficial impact on the
financial viability of all the sector's operators, industrial estates as well as smallholders.
22.           The economic and financial viability of the Bettie nucleus estate (2,046 ha) is not as
satisfactory. At appraisal, it was recognized that such small production/processing units are only
marginally profitable, and are only justified as a nucleus for adjacent smallholders, providing them
processing facilities for their produce. It was also predicted at appraisal that a 10% reduction of benefits
would reduce the estimated ERR from  15 to about 12%.  Because Bettie's management had taken
effective measures to reduce production costs, the 60% decline in the FOB export price, from CFAF 524
at appraisal to CFAF 217/kg at completion, caused the ERR to decrease to only 10%. However,
Government has decided to privatize State plantations, including Bettie, and it is very likely that
significant cost-reducing measures would be achieved by a private management that would improve the
financial and economic viability of Bettie.
(ii)          Smaliholders Plantations
23.           Based on the average yields actually achieved by outgrowers, actual production costs and
farmgate prices (CFAF 140/kg since April 1991 against CFAF 352/kg at appraisal), the ERR for
smallholder plantations has been recalculated at 13% against about 20% at appraisal. The annual net
financial return per hectare of smallholder plantation is estimated at CFAF 69,000 during, and at CFAF
190,000 after debt service. Although much lower than estimated at appraisal (CFAF 248,000 and
466,000 respectively), farmer's remuneration of about CFAF 3,000/laborday (after debt service) still
provides sufficient incentive (in absolute terms as well as relatively to other crops), and farmers have
fully recognized the income potential of rubber. Outgrowers are now financing close to the full cost of
extension services required, recovered through a fee deducted from their rubber sale proceeds. They
have organized themselves into a national association to defend their interests vis-a-vis processors and
extension agencies. Provided that they make reasonable efforts to maintain their plantations' productive
capacity through prudent tapping techniques, the sustainablility of their plantations and income is secured.
(iii)         Rubber Research Facilities at HEVEGO
24.           The sustainability of HEVEGO' operations depends largely on the consolidation of the
institutional structure envisaged at its conception in 1983, and on a tight control of operating cost. The
concept of establishing HEVEGO as a mixed State-private enterprise, very innovative in the early 80s,
now corresponds fully to Government's current policy to involve the end-users of research results in the
management and financing of research programs. To consolidate the present structure, the private



- 7 -
partners in HEVEGO would need to gradually increase their share in the institution's capital and directly
fund a larger share of its research programs. However, since the financial autonomy of HEVEGO is to
be achieved largely from the net profits from its industrial plantations (1,000 ha), its viability will largely
depend on the level of rubber prices on international markets and on the efficiency of HEVEGO
operations. At current cost, projected price levels and present estate size, the ERR of the HEVEGO
component has been recalculated at only 3% against 13.5% at appraisal, mnostly because of the drop in
international prices (HEVEGO itself has estimated an ERR of 9.5% at completion of its second phase
around 1997, after having extended the total planted surface to 2,200 ha). The rate of return should not
be a deciding criterion since HEVEGO's primary objective is applied research. However, HEVEGO will
have to decrease substantially the cost of its operations if it is to generate from its industrial plantations
the revenues expected to finance the cost of its research program.
I.           Bank's Performance
25.          The Bank's overall performance has been satisfactory. The dialogue between the Bank
and the Government and project executing agencies was constructive and well appreciated. The Bank was
flexible in responding to changing project needs and in resolving issues during project implementation,
as shown by a number of amendments introduced in the loan agreement. Abidjan-based staff of the
Agriculture Section of the Agriculture Operations Division (AFIAG) was responsible for project
supervision. Bank supervision was adequate: 13 supervision missions were carried out and staff
continuity was good (with only three different task managers) during the 8-year project life.
1.           Borrower Performance
26.          Overall supervision of the project was entrusted to the Ministries of Agriculture, Scientific
Research, and Finance. The performance of these ministries remained weak throughout the project
period. The Ministry of Agriculture's Rubber Sector Planning and Monitoring Unit, understaffed and
constrained by budgetary problems, could not really be effective in providing guidance or solving
implementation problems. The involvement of the Ministry of Scientific Research was limited to
participating in the design of and approving HEVEGO legal structure, and in approving its annual
operational programs and budgets. Its participation in actual project implementation was very limited.
There was considerable delay in actually establishing HEVEGO with dire consequences for HEVEGO's
actual field operations.  The Ministry of Finance was responsible, through its Caisse autonome
d'amortissement (CAA), for the verification and processing of disbursement requests prepared by the
various project implementing agencies, to be submitted to external co-financiers. Its performance was
adequate, although there were sometimes considerable delays in processing withdrawal applications and
approving amendments to the Loan Agreement. Its management of Special Accounts was a cause of
concern to both the Bank and the project implementing agencies.
27.          In 1987, Government responded to the weak performance of line ministries by entrusting
actual supervision of the project (like that of all public investment projects/programs) to the Direction et
Controle des Grands Travaux (DCGTx). The performance of DCGTx's Rubber Sector Supervision Unit,
adequately staffed and funded, was good. However, DCGTx's involvement created resentment from
technical ministries and from implementing agencies which felt that DCGTx's controls were unduly
heavy-handed. Relationships were strained. Also, although DCGTx's role in project implementation was
beneficial, the elimination of technical ministries from policy-making and program monitoring cannot be
institutionally viable in the long-term. The situation has improved recently. Line ministries have recently
taken back most of their prerogatives in these areas, with DCGTx retaining more limited technical and



budgetary control responsibilities.
28.           SOQB's performance in bringing some 10,500 ha into production,expanding the capacity
of its rubber factory, and completing the plantation infrastructure, was fully satisfactory. Its high
standard for training tappers and plantation maintenance contributed to the estate's very high productivity.
SOGB is a mixed public-private enterprise (Societe d'Economie Mixte) with a capital owned by the State
(95%) and the French rubber company Michelin (5%). Its technical and financial management, with
Michelin's assistance, is excellent.
29.          .SAP_'s performance in implementing the smallholder development program  and
managing the State-owned nucleus estates at Bettie and Cavally was also satisfactory. SAPH has
established a separate unit (Direction Centrale de la Promotion Heveicole - DCPH) to provide assistance
and extension services to smallholders for establishing and maintaining their plantations. This unit
performed satisfactorily, although its operating costs have been high. Depressed world prices and
pressure from smallholders have however induced SAPH to reduce the cost of services provided to
farmers. With the creation of the Rubber Growers' Association in 1991, it is now envisaged that this
Association will gradually take over the services provided by SAPH and therefore control their costs.
30.           HEVEGO was late in starting implementing its component and was confronted with the
serious problem of illegal occupation of its land at the start of its field operations; despite this delay, it
managed to plant 1,259 ha rubber during the period 1988 to 1991, against 1,500 ha envisaged at
appraisal. Recent supervision missions have emphasized the excellent quality of the plantations
established and the very promising start of the research programs (476 new clones being tested). The
scientific and management assistance provided by IRCA has been excellent.
31.           BNDA's performance was poor. As under the previous project, it was assigned the
responsibility, under a specific agreement with Government (Accord de Retrocession), for onlending
project funds to smallholders for establishing and maintaining their plantations. BNDA experienced
considerable difficulties in disbursing subloans and maintaining smallholders accounts. To facilitate
project implementation, SAPH agreed to prefinance the cost of establishing plantations (land clearing,
inputs) and took over the responsibility for maintaining planters' accounts on behalf of BNDA, as well
as for collecting loan repayments from the sale of cup lumps. BNDA's role, before its final liquidation
in October 1991, was basically reduced to that of a channel of funds between Government and
smallholders bearing, theoretically, the risk for credit operations. Present project farmers are just starting
to repay their loans. However, because smallholders have to sell their produce to SAPH, past loan
recovery has been excellent. SAPH and BNDA agreed that, because of declining farmgate prices (linked
to world market prices), debt servicing should be flexible and not exceed 30% of the smallholder's gross
revenue from the sale of his produce. As a result, debt servicing by smallholders established under the
previous project amounted, as of 12/31/90, to only 86% of the total due according to the reimbursement
schedule established at the beginning of the subloans. However, the difference of 14% does not reflect
a bad loan situation but agreed-upon deferred reimbursements for which BNDA is charging interest.
32.           The liquidation of BNDA represents a serious problem for the future development of
private rubber plantations.  BNDA will temporarily continue to service existing loans until it is
definitively closed, in several years, or its rubber portfolio taken over by commercial banks. However,
the latter do not appear willing to extend new long-term loans for rubber development because of their
late maturity and extended grace period (17 years maturity with 7 year grace period). Government and
the newly created Rubber Association are studying various alternative mechanisms to ensure continued



-. 9 -
availability of funds for future development in the sector.
33.           The performance of each implementing agency was different with regard to compliance
with financial audit requirements. HEVEGO, with its straight forward operations of establishing a
research plantation, presented audit reports of excellent quality within the required period (six months
following the end of the fiscal year). SOGB and SAPH, with their more elaborate operations were
consistently late in presenting their financial audit reports. SAPH in particular claimed that the complex
nature of operations undertaken to develop the outgrowers rubber program and manage the State-owned
plantations (which required close collaboration with various Government services and BNDA), made
virtually impossible the preparation and submission of the required audit reports within six months of the
end of the fiscal year. However, at Bank's insistence, progress was made to speed up the closing of
accounts, and audit reports were presented with less delay towards the end of the project. Once
presented, the quality of all audit reports was in general satisfactory.
K.            Project Relationship
34.           The relationship between the Bank and Government was good, and a good dialogue
existed on all implementation or policy matters related to the project itself or the rubber sub-sector in
general. Excellent working relations were established between the Bank and project implementing
agencies which made it possible to address upcoming issues in a timely and efficient fashion. Relations
between the Bank and the project's other cofinanciers were excellent. Joint supervision missions helped
fostering a common analysis of project and sector issues. The relationship between DCGTx and other
parties concerned with project implementation (ministries, implementing agencies, external donors) were
strained at first but have recently improved markedly.
L.            Consulting Seryices
35.           Financing of consulting services was not part of the project.  However, technical
assistance was provided by the French company SIPH to SAPH, by Michelin to SOGB, and by IRCA
to HEVEGO. In all cases, technically well-qualified staff was made available, and effective on-the-job
training was provided to allow national staff to gradually replace expatriates. Presently, long-term
resident expatriates are mostly limited to key financial positions only.
M.            Project Documentation and Data
36.           The project documents, such as appraisal report and legal documents, were well-prepared
and useful for project execution. All implementing agencies regularly produced financial and progress
reports which were comprehensive and sufficiently detailed. In addition, various reports and studies were
prepared related to specific issues, mostly at the time of supervision missions.



- 10-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
(LOAN 2323-IVC)
PART Il: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Parts I and III, prepared by the Abidjan-based Agriculture Section (AF1AA) of the Agriculture
Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa Department (AF IAG), were reviewed with the
project's implementing agencies SAPH, SOGB and HEVEGO in June 1992, and their comments have
been incorporated in the report. There were no major differences of view between the Bank and the
Borrower. Only HEVEGO prepared a formal completion report for its component under the project.
Its report, translated into English, is presented below.
Hevego's Completion Report
1.    Background
The Fourth Rubber Development Project is in keeping with the strategy for the development of
the rubber sector in the Ivory Coast adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture in August 1988 at the request
of donors.
From an institutional point of view, it was necessary to create a semi-public company
incorporated under Ivoirian law to implement the Project on the Government's behalf.
Both from a geographic and economic perspective, the Project is an integral part of the rubber
development programme in the Ivory Coast and of the development process of the south-east region
which has a clear comparative advantage for rubber production.
II.    Project Definition
The Project was designed by a feasibility study carried out by IRCA in 1982 at the request of the
Government, and revised in 1986. Its objectives are to:
(i)          provide experimental sites, especially for the genetic improvement programme and the
study of new amazonian varieties recently introduced in the Ivory Coast;
(ii)         test the results of the research on a large scale;
(iii)        test and adapt the cultural methods developed on research stations and in industrial and
village plantations in the south-west; and
(iv)         establish a training centre for research and development whose focus would be both
national anJ international.



- 11 -
These objectives are in line with the rubber development programme and farmers' needs.
The environmental study (climatology, topography and pedology) proved realistic, so that it was
not necessary to change the technical norms previously defined. These norms were respected and proved
to be efficient when implemented. Technically, therefore, the Project was properly defined and
corresponded to the reality and constraints of field operations. The same cannot be said, however, about
the sociological aspect of the Project, as we will see in Chapter V.
III.   Project Implementation
Certain administrative measures needed to be taken before the Project could be implemented;
namely:
Invitation to Bid for Land
On January 5, 1981, decree no. O1/AGRI/DAC/SADR granted the IRCA 5,746 hectares of land
in the Go region. In January 1983, the land was transferred to the Ministry of Scientific Research. In
the meantime, the French government had handed over to the Ivorian government all the equipment and
installations which previously belonged to its research institutes located in the Ivory Coast. This enabled
the Project to resolve the first problem it encountered - its physical establishment - quickly.
The morpho-pedological study revealed that 2,368 hectares of cultivable land was suitable for
Hevea. A socio-economic survey was carried out in 1981 by the Service des Affaires Domaniales et
Rurales in San Pedro in order to register the farmers who had recently settled inside the concession and
specify the area and type of plantations they had. The results of the survey, which was completed in
September 1981, are as follows: 206 farmers and 444 hectares of perennial crops, 427 of which were
cocoa trees and 17 coffee trees. At that time, the remaining available are was largely sufficient for the
Project.
The Compny
On May 27, 1983, at the time of the negotiations for the Fourth Rubber Project, the Council of
Ministers authorised the establishment of a new structure for research and development, as requested by
the donors. However, administrative and legal issues delayed the establishment of the new company; it
was only on January 30, 1986 that the company, Societe Heveicole du Go (HEVEGO), was created
under decree no. 86/87. The Board members representing the Government were named on December
30, 1986 and the constitutive General Assembly was held on January 14, 1987. The agreement with the
Government authorising the company to begin Project activities was signed on August 27, 1987.
During actual Project implementation, HEVEGO came up against a number of problems related
to topography, farmers' compensation and resettlement, procurement and mobilising funds.
Topography
The site is part of a peneplain made up of hillocks which are not too high and generally suitable
for growing rubber. They are separated by hydromorphic and swampy soils. The hydrographic network
is dense with several bottomlands and streams flowing towards the river Go.



- 12 -
In view of the morphology of the land, and in keeping with the rule to plant along lines
perpendicular to the slope, HEVEGO was forced to plant the rubber using a modified contour lines
method. This land configuration does not allow the establishment of regular, homogenous plots. As a
result, very long peripheral tracks were needed between the plots of suitable land which were separated
by the hydromorphic areas whose land could not be cultivated.
In order to cultivate 1,260 hectares, it was necessary to weed 1,630 hectares; the ratio between
the area cultivated and that weeded is about 77%.
Farmers' Compensation and Resettlement
During the meetings organised by HEVEGO, which were attended by representatives of San
Pedro's administrative and political bodies (the Prefect, Sub-Prefect, Regional Directors for Agriculture,
Water and Forests, MPs, etc.), three options were presented to the farmers; they could:
(i)          give up their plots and participate in the Project as HEVEGO employees;
(ii)         give up their plots and obtain a 2 hectare plot from HEVEGO, 1 of which would
be used to grow rubber and the other food crops. For the first three years of the
Project, food crops would be grown within the newly established area for rubber
cultivation; or
(iii)        give up their plots once they had been compensated in accordance with decree
no. 72-116 of November 11, 1972.
HEVEGO's preferred option, which was also that of the donors, was that evicted farmers resettle
on the Project site and start growing rubber. HEVEGO would have provided the technical assistance,
seedlings and arranged training and agricultural credit, in liaison with SAPH, which is responsible for
training rubber growers in this region.
Procurement
Until 1991, the procurement contracts awarded by HEVEGO were exclusively related to land-
clearing, soil preparation and the construction of roads and tracks. Indeed, HEVEGO did not have the
necessary equipment to carry out the Project on a force account; likewise, its staff was not qualified
enough to carry out the Project. It was therefore more beneficial to contract out the works to specialised
companies.
The numerous delays and complications which ensued were due to the elaborate bidding
procedure used (competitive bidding was necessary because the cost of the contract was higher than the
limit specified by the Codes des marchEs publics). The standard document, imposed by the DCGTx,
was very rigid, and, we believe, poorly suited to agricultural works which require great flexibility in field
operations. The non-suitability of this procedure was demonstrated in 1991 when an invitation to tender
was declared fruitless. However, HEVEGO always managed to keep excellent working relations with
government services responsible for public contracts, which was helpful and efficient. There were,
nonetheless, problems with the DCGTx service, particularly in 1990 when it insisted that the works be
managed by its engineers. This was not provided for under the loan agreements with the various donors,
who anticipated that HEVEGO would receive technical assistance so that it could manage the works itself.



- 13 -
IV.   Funding
Overall, the financial resources available to HEVEGO from the different donors were sufficient;
however, problems did arise in mobilising funds. The main difficulties centred around the preparation
and payment of withdrawal applications.
(i)    Financing was shared among the various donors in an unusually complicated way. For
example, IBRD only financed expenses related to experimental agricultural activities and
not industrial agricultural activities, while the distribution of costs between these two
components was often artificial. Another example is that expenses of a general nature,
such as those related to personnel, had to be distinguished from the other expenses. As
a result, we were forced to re-process available accounting information to produce
withdrawal applications. There was no direct link, therefore, between the accounting
information and the withdrawal applications, which caused some confusion.
(ii)    A special account was opened at the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) and
managed by the same. This account served as a transit account for IBRD deposits and
to make payments to HEVEGO against withdrawal applications. This set-up posed many
problems and delayed the availability of the funds. To date, certain problems have not
been resolved; for example, there is a difference of 14 million FCFA between the
applications for withdrawal by HEVEGO and the requests the CAA submitted to the
IBRD on behalf of HEVEGO.
(iii)   HEVEGO never received a withdrawal notice and was therefore unable to keep up with
the transactions made under the credit because the currency used in statements was the
dollar and it was unclear what exchange rate was being used for the various transactions
since there were large fluctuations of the rate of the dollar against the FCFA.
IV.   Financial Asp=
(a)    Amount of Credit
2,800,000 dollars were granted to HEVEGO (part E2) and were grouped in the two
categories below:
Cat. 5-A:    Agricultural activities:           $1,800,000
Cat. 5-B:    Resettlement of evicted farmers:   $1,076,000
(b)    Disbursements
The total amount of applications for withdrawal sent to the Bank for the reimbursement
of expenses prefinanced by HEVEGO is 1,055,218,915 FCFA and it was distributed as
follows: Cat. 5-A 741,058,110 FCFA and Cat 5-B 814,160,805 FCFA.
V.    Project Impact
Physical Achievements
At the end of 1991, about 1,259 hectares of rubber had been established, representing 83.9% of



- 14 -
the planned programme. The remaining 241 hectares are to be established in 1992. A small contract
with a suitable company will be necessary to clear the land of the relevant areas.
Roads and Rural Roads
The existing road network facilitates access to all plots throughout the year. The density and
layout of rural roads were planned in such a way that when HEVEGO reaches its full operational phase,
tappers will not have to transport the latex further than 125 m.
At the end of 1991, 15 km of main roads, 54 km of latex collecting tracks and 143 km of
peripheral roads had been constructed.
Infrastructure
The Project envisaged the creation of a main village; housing for all categories of personnel, an
administrative block to accommodate all the services needed to operate the plantation, a school, hospital,
covered market shops, and a community hall were built. The construction of a small latex processing
unit has been earmarked for the second phase of the Project.
An agreement has recently been signed with a firm of architects to provide a preliminary design
for the village and detailed plans which would be approved by DCGTx. Three wells have already been
constructed to ensure maximum water supply to the village. A contract has been secured to transport
water from the wells to the water tower. The World Bank has approved a contract to provide electricity
to the village. Consultations have taken place and contracts are being drawn up for the provision of
concrete bricks and tiles.
Economic Impact
Tapping will begin in 1993, but only a modest amount of latex will be produced because the area
planted in 1988 was limited. Production will increase gradually. Forecasts indicate that by 2001,
production will be more than 3,000 tonnes and that by 2007, 3,430 tonnes will be produced. These
figures are strictly related to those plantations created in the first phase of the Project (excluding the 500
additional acres envisaged for the second phase of the Project).
Sociological Impact
The sociological impact of the Project on HEVEGO's employees will be measured by the amount
of money spent on salaries and by the level of improvement of the standard of living.
It is estimated that at full development, HEVEGO will employ 580 employees (500 of whom will
be agricultural labourers) and that the wage bill will total some 350 million FCFA. Thanks to the
infrastructure constructed by HEVEGO, the standard of living of this salaried population will improve
significantly in terms of housing, medical care, schooling, as will the general quality of their lives
(increased acquisition of consumer goods, leisure, etc.).
Indeed, according to the Project's original objectives, the local population should have benefitted
in the same way; however, this goal was not achieved (see paragraph 3.1). The concerned farmers were,
nonetheless, duly compensated and were given the option of investing in activities of their choice.



- 15 -
Results and Project Follow-up: Heveyo II
HEVEGO benefitted from the funds made available for the Fourth and Fifth Rubber projects until
the end of 1992. However, at that time several problems will need to be resolved if HEVEGO is to
complete the tasks it was assigned by the Government:
(i)    1,500 hectares of plantations will be available, the oldest of which will be five years;
since they will only have just begun producing, the proceeds generated will not be
sufficient to maintain the entire area planted;
(ii)   the research programme put together by the IRCA includes a technological component
which focusses on improving rubber drying methods. At present, there is no facility in
the Ivory Coast which can take on this task;
(iii)   one of the Project's initial objectives was to reach financial equilibrium; in view of the
uncertainty of rubber prices in the future, however, we would like to earmark an
additional extension of 500 hectares which would permit us to at least try to increase our
chances of reaching this equilibrium.
At the beginning of August, 1991, a feasibility study for a new project, HEVEGO II, was
presented to the responsible administrations and interested donors. This project would comprise two
components: an agricultural component and an industrial component. The agricultural component would
focus on the maintenance of the existing 1,500 hectares and the creation of 500 additional hectares while
the industrial component would concentrate on the construction of an experimental rubber drying
workshop, administrative facilities and housing and provide the maintenance required to ensure that the
above functioned properly.
VI.   Economic Assessment
Since the Project is essentially a pilot project, a post-evaluation of its profitability does not appear
to be of great interest. What can be said in this regard is that, on the whole, investment costs were in
line with forecasts. In fact, what caused Project costs to rise above projections were the delays in Project
implementation which were beyond the control of the Project team. These delays increased the
company's overheads from the outset of the Project, and they could not be written off against any of the
financial investments because these were not large enough.



- 16 -
VII.   Participating Organizations and their Performance
Donors
The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economigue and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation were as understanding as the World Bank when faced with the unexpected difficulties which
arose, and took appropriate action both financially and technically.
Public Services
Apart from the difficulties mentioned in the section on procurement, the relevant services were
always willing to help at all stages of Project implementation. This is particularly true of the Caisse
Autonome d'Amortissement whose initiatives were rather positive during Project execution. The
difficulties mentioned are more related to inappropriate procedures rather than to institutional inefficiency.
Generally speaking, on examining the loan agreements, it is clear that the Ivoirian Government
(referred to as "the Borrower" in the documents) met its obligations with regard to the Go Project (Part
E of the Project).
VIII. The World Bank
There was a constant and fruitful dialogue between the World Bank and the Borrower throughout
Project implementation. As a result, problems which arose were easily resolved, as in the case of
reallocation of funds, for example. The World Bank was also particularly understanding regarding the
compensation given to evicted farmers. After fruitful discussions on the costs and appropriateness of the
construction of a HEVEGO village centre, the World Bank allowed some degree of flexibility in
procurement procedures to facilitate implementation in a timely and efficient manner.
Conclusion
The plantation programme will be completed in 1992 under the Fifth Rubber Project. Delays in
Project execution are due, on the one hand, to the fact that the farmers did not always free the land in
time, and, on the other, to inappropriate administrative procedures, particularly procurement procedures
and the system used for refinancing expenses.
Nonetheless, despite these difficulties and delays, the qualitative and quantitative objectives of the
Project were met. We benefitted from the active support of the donors, especially the World Bank who
was always ready to listen to our problems and do whatever it could to help us solve them.
Financing for HEVEGO is guaranteed until the end of 1992. Thereafter, a new project should
be launched in order for the rubber research and development program to continue. The new project,
which should include an industrial component, would give HEVEGO a national or international stature,
in accordance with the objectives set out in the feasibility study of 1986.



- 17 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
(LOAN 2323-IVC)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    Related Bank Loans
Table I
Loan Title                            Year of                               Purpose                                Status
Approval
Past Loans
First Grand-Ber6by                    1973                         Providing support to Government's               Completed
Rubber Project                                                     Crop Diversification Policy by                   in 1979
(Loan No. 0938-IVC)                                                expanding the area under natural
rubber by 7,000 ha.
Second Grand-Ber6by                   1975                         Bringing into bearing area planted              Completed
Rubber Project                                                     under first project and expanding                in 1985
(Loan 1575-IVC)                                                    the total area under rubber by
6,500 ha.
SAPH Rubber Project                   1978                         Establishing 3,000 ha outgrowers                Completed
(Loan 1633-IVC)                                                    rubber and 2,000 ha industrial                  in 1984
at Bett6.
Present Lo2a
Fourth Rubber Project                 1983                         Bringing into production areas                  Completed
(Loan 2323-IVC)                                                    planted under previous project,                 in 1991
planting 3,500 ha outgrowers
rubber and establishing 2,000 ha
industrial ptantations at Cavally.
Follow-uw Loan
Fifth Rubber Project                  1987                         Bringing into production areas                  Ongoing
(Loan 2874-IVC)                                                    pLanted under Rubber IV, and
planting 7,000 ha outgrowers
rubber.
Source: Project Files



- 18 -
2. Project Tifetable
Table 2 (a):Proiect Timetable
Item                               Date Planned               Revised Date               Actual Date
Month   Year              Month   Year               Month   Year
Identification                                                -   -                      12       78
Preparation                                 -                 -        -                 07       79
Project Brief (EPS)                08       81                10       81                08       81
AppraisaL                           10      81                                           05       82
Loan Negotiations                  01       83                02       83                03       83
Board Presentation                 06       82                03       83                06       83
Loan Signature                     -        -                 -        -                 07       83
Loan Effectiveness                 -                          01       84
04      84
05      84                06       84
Loan CoapLetion                    09       88                09       89                09       90
Loan Closing                       09       89                09       90                09       91
Source: Project Files



- 19 -
Table 2 (b): Prolect Cycle Elapsed Time
Days EloDse
Time Spon                  Ptann             Revis              Finat             Actual  MU
EPS to Appraisal                    08/81              10/81             08/25/81
Mission in Field                                                         04/19/82           237      600
Appraisal Mission                   10/81                                04/19/82
in Field to return                                                       05/11/82           22        28
Return Appraisal                                                         05/11/82
Mission to YC                       11/82              10/82             11/05/82           178       94
YC to Distribution                                                       11/05/82
of Docs to LC                       12/82             01/83              01/21/83            77       42
Docs to LC to                                                            01/21/83
Start Negotiations                  01/83             01/83              03/15/83           53        28
Start Negotiations                                                       03/15/83
to Final Agreement                  02/82                                06/01/83           78        42
Final Agreement to                                                       06/01/83
Board Presentation                  03/83             03/83              06/23/83           22        35
Sub-Total EPS to BD                                                                        66        861
Board Presentation to                                                    06/23/83
Effectiveness                                                            06/15/84          358        90
Effectiveness to                                                         06/15/84
Closing                             09/89              09/90             09/30/91            2  69219
Total EPS to Closina                                                                       3,688 2.873
aus= a *3uu
Key to Abbreviations:
OD      Board
EPS      Executive ProJect Summar
LC       Loan Committee
YC      Yellow Cover



-20 -
3.       Loan Di i,rse.uits
Table 3 (a): Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements
(USSThou"d)
Disbursements
Bank Fiscat                 Estimated          Actual             Actual as X        Actual as X
IUM      Quarter            C.umultiye         Cumutive           [f EstimatJd       gf Loan Amount
1983       4                      0                240              0                 1
1984       1                      0              6,656              0                21
2                     0              8,381              0                26
3                     0               9,186              0               29
4                 6,100              10,315           169                32
1985       1                 7,200              11,345            158                35
2                8,300               12,238           147                38
3                9,600               13,555           141                42
4                10,900              14,377           132                45
1986       1                12,200              15,842            130                49
2               13,500               17,724           131                55
3                14,900              19,852           133                62
4               16,400              21,823            133                68
1987       1                17,800              22,276            125                69
2               19,300              23,803            123                74
3               21,100               25,052           119                78
4               22,500              26,060            116                81
1988       1                23,800              26,437            111                82
2               25,100              27,264            109                85
3               26,400              27,499            104                85
4               27,700              27,743            100                86
1989       1                28,800              27,743             96                86
2               29,900              27,879             93                87
3               30,500              28,221             93                88
4               31,100              28,339             91                U
1990       1                31,700              29,231             92                91
2               32,200              29,873             93                93
3               32,200              31,064             96                96
4               32,200              31,083             97                97
1991       1                32,200              31,122             97                97
2               32,200              31,599             98                98
3               32,200              31,5991/           98                98
Source: Monthly Disbjrsement Sumiary
L'The  Loan  closed  on  September  30,  1991.   As  of  that  date,  US$31,599,000  had
been committed. Final disbursements took place on August 31, 1992 (full
recovery of Special Account) and the Loan's unused balance cancelled.



- 21 -
Graph I        Cumutative estimated and Actual Disbursements
RCI FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
CLU. ESTIMATED & ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
35
30 
25-
0          20-
15 -
10 
5
0
SEP-83          SEP--95 SEP|-7                    sEPL6            SEP-91
SEP-84          SEP-85           SEP-86           SEP-90           MAR-92
0   EstTmated    +   Actual



- 22 -
Tjbts 3 (b): Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Catenorv                  Acora isal                                 Amndment                            Actufl
EstimLtI                  wo- 1              O                NO.3            Disburs.
11/17/87         10/27/89         07/18/91
....-..               -- .- ... --..... ....-USS'OO. .......................................
(1) Goods and Services for                 15,450.0                   15,760.0         15,760.0          16,775.8         17,310.0
Grmnd-B4r6by Estate
(2) Goods and Services for                  3,500.0                    3,200.0          3,980.0           4,173.3          4,173.3
Betti6 Nucleus Estate
(3) Goods and Services for                  3,500.0                   3,150.0           2,220.0           2.o20.5          2,753.9
Cavally Nucleus Estate
(4) Goods and Services for                  3,500.0                   3.100.3           3,070.3           3.655.6          3,655.6
Smallholders Plantations
(5) NEVEGO Part of the Project:
(a) Goods and Services                  5,000.0                   1.800.0           1.800.0          2.500.0           2,611.3
for NEVEGO Plantation
(b) Goods and Services                      0.0                    1,000.0          1,000.0           1,076.0          1,092.8
for resettlement of
Land occupiers
(6) Loans in Kind                              500.0                     500.0            680.0             660.4            660.4
(7) Studies                                   500.0                      450.0            450.0             298.2            317.8
(8) Initial Deposit in                           0.0                    3,000.0         3,000.0               0.0         (1,215.6)
Special Account
(9) Bank Front-End Fee                         250.0                      239.7           239.7             239.7            239.7
(10) Unallocated                                 0.0                        0.0             0.0               0.0              0.0
TotaL                                     32,200.0                    32,200.0        32,200.0          32,200.0         31,599 3
Canceled                                                                                                               0.0
Undisbursed                                                                                                          600.7
TOTAL                                      32,200.0                   32,200.0         32,200.0          32,200.0         32,200.0
asamuuau                  sauuuuus         uzuuuuuu          iUnuunum         SWW*.uWW
Source: 0i) Loan Amendment Letters to the Borrower
(ii) Monthly Disbursement Summary
CoTments:
(i)     Actual costs of project conponents are ranging from 64X to 132X of appraisal estimates.
(ii)    Actual costs of developing Grand-56r6by estate and Betti6 nucleus estate are 112X and 119S respectively of
appraisal estimates: Part of the construction of the factory and plantation infrastructure at Grand-Bir6by and
Bettie was to be financed on own resources. However, fa(lling rubber prices prevented the generation of enough
internal cash flow to finance these investments. At the request of the Goverrment, additional funding was
provided by the project's external co-financiers through reallocation of fumds amongst categories, (the Bank
agreed to amend the Loan Agreement accordingly).
OMii)   Actual costs of developing Cavally nucLeus estate are 72X of appraisal estimate: the construction of permanent
plantation infrastructure (villages) was deferred to the follow-up Rubber V Project, herewith reducing
substantially the corresponding costs.



- 23 -
(iv)    Actual costs of establishing the HEVEGO research plantation were only 74X of appraisal estimate. Administrative
and legal problems delayed HEVEGO's creation by nearly four years until August 27, 1987. As a result of this
late start, NEVEGO did not fully complete its planting program (84X of the appraisal target of 1,500 ha was
obtained at project closing date); by June 30, 1992, the 1,500 were fully planted.
tv)     Loans in kind were 132X of appraisaL estimate: it was claimed that the average amount required per smaliholder
was under-estimated, while the number of smaltholders applying for loans in kind was 11X higher than estimated
at appraisal.
tvi)    Studies were realized at onLy 64X of costs estimated at appraisal, mainly because the studies to complewent the
Rubber Master Plan were not realized, as Goverrnment has reoriented its policy of promoting rubber development
by opening up new large-scale industrial plantations.
(vii)   To establish the Special Accounts opened by the Borrower at CAA, Bank deposited an initial advance (in FCFA)
into the accounts in the name of respectively SOGB, SAPH/Cavally, SAPH/SmaLlholders nd HEVEGO, equivalent to
USS3 million.  In recovering the initial deposits into the Special Accounts of SOGS, SAPH/SmatlhoLders and
HEVEGO, Bank recovered more in USS equivelent, due to change in exchange rate.



- 24 -
4.      ProJect Imlol  ntatlan
Teble 4:Prolect Imlementation and Key Indicators
Estimate
Appraisal          Status           At Peak
Prolect Components                  Key Indicators                    Estimate         canv. 90/91       Production
- Grand-B6r6by Estate               -Area maintained (He)             10,000             13,873          13,873
- Area tapped (Ha)               13,513             13.526           13,873
- Peak Production (T/Yr)         32,432             30,007          33.156
- Yield (T/Ha)                     2.40               2.22             2.39
SAPH
Betti6 Estate                     - Area plant./maint.(Ho)             160                176              176
- Area maintained (Ha)            1,840              2,052            2,052
- Area tapped (Ha)                2,000              2,052            2,052
- Peak Production (T/Yr)          4,400              2,863            4,720
-Yield (T/Ha)                      2.20               1.40             2.30
- Outgrowers Betti6                 - Number of farmers                 N.A.               165               165
- Area maintained (Ha)              500               529               529
- Area tapped (Ha)                  500               524               529
- Pesk Production (T/Yr)            800               488               926
- Yleld CT/Ha)                     1.60              0.93              1.75
* Outgrowers South East             -Number of farmers                  N.A.             1,803             1,803
-Area ptant./malnt.IHa)           3,500             3,564             3,564
- Area maintained (Ha)            3,000             3,000             3,000
- Area tapped (Ha)                6,500             4,488             6,564
- Peak Production (T/Yr)         10,400             3,842            11,487
- YieLd (T/Ha)                     1.60              0.86              1.75
- Cavally Estate                    - Area plant./maint.(Ha)           2,000             2,042             2,042
-Area tapped (Ha)                 2,000               161             2,042
-Peak Production (T/Yr)           4,400                64             4,697
- Yield CT/Ha)                     2.20              0.40              2.30
* Outgrowers Cavally                - Humber of farmers
Area pLanted (Ha)                 400                  0                0
- Area tapped (Ha)                  400                  0                0
-Peak Production (T/Yr)             640                 0                 0
- Yield (T/Ha)              1.60                 0                 0
HEVEGO
- Experimental
and Industrisl Estate             - Area ptanted (Ha)                1,500             1,259             1,259
-Ares tapped (Ha)                 1,500                 0             1,500
- Peak Production (T/Yr)          3,625                 0             3,450
-YieLd (T/Ha)                      2.42                 0              2.30
OVERALL PROJECT
-Number of farmers                1,780             1,968             1,968
- Area planted
and/or maintained (Ha)         22,900            26,495            26,495
- Area tapped (Ha)       26,413             20,751           26,560
- Peak Production (T/Yr)         56,697            37,264            58,436
-YieLd (T/Ha)                      2.15              1.80              2.20
Comnents:        Physical objectives were generally achieved or exceeded except in the case of HEVEGO where actions took place
four years behind schedule. The realization of the Cavally outgrowers component has been deferred to the Rubber
V Project.



- 25 -
5.      Proiect Costs and Financino
Table 5 (a): Prolect Costs
(in million of CFAF/USS)
Items (Prolect Convonents)              Arwraisal Esttmate              Actual
JCFAF)     (US$)         (CFAF)       (M)
- Grand-B6r6by Estate                      8,712      24.7        10,173          34.3
SAPH
- Betti6 Estate                            3,885      11.0         4,087          13.8
- Cavally Estate                           7,071      19.9         3,842          13.0
- Outgrowers                               4,340      122          4 203          1i4
Sub-total                       15,296     43.1        12,132          41.0
HEVEGO
- ExperimentaL and Industrial              5,749      16.2         2,697           9.1
Estate
STUDIES                                      343       1.0           168           0.6
TOTAL                           30,100     85.0        25,170          85.0
333333s    3333        33333333        m333
Source: SAR
Financial Statements SOGB, SAPH/DHE, HEVEGO
Comments
cl)     Exchange rate at AppreisaL: USS 1 * CFAF 355.
(ii)    Exchange rate during project impltmentation fluctuated between CFAF 381 in 1982 to CFAF 280 in 1991;
average exchange rate over inplementation period: USS 1 * CFAF 296.



- 26 -
Teble S Ib):Prolect Financing
(in million of CFAF/USS)
Pl anned
According to
Sources                            Loan/Credit
Bank Fiin   m                        Agrement                        FinaL
CFAF     USS               CFAF       USS
Grand-B6riby Estate                4,373    12.35             5,571    17.31
*ttI6 Estate                        1,016     2.87            1,235      4.17
- Cavally Estate                       984      2.78              743      2.51
- Outgrowers                        L1  3       L12             1i279   .AXl
Sub-total                    3,133     8.85            3,257    11.00
HEVEGO
- Experimental plantations            1,452     4.10            1,096      3.70
* Industrial plantations                  0        0                0         0
Sub-total                    1,452     4.10            1,096      3.70
SIUDIES                                 159     0.45               95      0.32
INITIAL DEPOSIT                      1,062      3.00            (287)   (0.97)
SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
FRONTIEND FEE                            85     0.24               71      0.24
UNALLOCATED                           1,137     3.21                 0     0.00
TOTAL DISBURSED                                                 9,803    31,60
TOTAL UNDISSURSED                                                 168      0.60
TOTAL BANK FINANCING                 11,401    32.20            9,971    32.20
......   .....            3... .3    Susan
CO-FINANCING INSTITUTIONS
- CCCE                               7,508    21.20             7,247   21.20
- CDC                                4,958    14.00             3,563   14.00
Goverruint                         6,233    17.60             4389   17260
Total                               30,100    85.00           25,170   85.00
m.....   .... ....... .      . ...
Source: Loan Agreement
Monthly Disbursement Sumary, March 1992



- 27 -
6.    project Results
A.1   Direct Benerits
Appraisal    Actual
Key Indicators                           Estimate      (1990/911
Number of Outgrowers                     1.780         1,968
Employment Generated                     6,500         6,356 of which
(SOGB/SAPH/HEVEGO)
4,810 at Grand-Bereby
1,394 at Bettie/Cavally
152 at HEVEGO
A.2   Indirect Beneflits
Employment Generated SAPH Plantations
(Toupah, Osrou, Bongo, Rapides Grah) N.A.              5,083
Social Infrastructures
(Schools, Dispensaries)                  N.A.          14 Schools    )
22 Dispensaries) SAPH
17 Schools )
23 Dispensaries) SOGB
1 Hospital )
Comments:   The project has significantly contributed to the creation of employment and improvement of
living conditions in rural areas.



- 28 -
B.    Eonomic Impact
Economic rates of return have been recalculated for each component separately and for the project
as a whole on the basis of the methodology used at appraisal. Rubber production is valued on the basis
of Bank projected world prices adjusted for freight, insurance and domestic marketing and processing
costs. Non tradeables have been adjusted by the appropriate conversion factor and transfer payments
(taxes and subsidies) excluded. Plantations establishment, maintenance and harvesting costs have been
determined for each component according to its specific technology. Labor costs have been valued at
statutory level plantation (adjusted by the SCF) and at its opportunity cost for smallholder plantations.
On that basis, the re-estimated component-specific and global economic rates of return of the project are
as follows:
Appraisal            PCR
Economic Rates of Return                  Estimate             Estimat
_         %       _ __--- 
SOGB
- Grand-Bereby Estate (13,873 Ha)         13.5                 16.4
SAMH
- Bettie Nucleus Estate (2,052 Ha)        15.2                  9.9
- Cavally Nucleus estate (2,042 Ha)       13.0                  8.0
- Outgrowers Bettie                       19.3                  9.9
- Outgrowers South East                   20.4                 13.0
- Outgrowers Cavally                      18.4                  N.A.
HEVEGO
- Experimental and Industrial Estate      13.5                  3.1
OVERALL PROJECT                           14.8                 11.7
Comments:
(i)    The overall project economic rate of return of 11.7% is satisfactory and approaches the
opportunity cost of capital on the financial market.
(ii)   The good performance achieved by SOGB in spite of world market prices much lower
than estimated at appraisal, is due the effective measures taken by SOGB's management
to reduce overhead and production costs.
(iii)   The ERR of the nucleus estates Bettie and Cavally is less satisfactory. It was recognized
at appraisal, and confirmed at completion, that such small production units are only
marginally profitable and are only justified as a nucleus for adjacent outgrowers,
providing them the processing facilities for their produce. The decline of world market
prices has a larger impact on the economic and financial viability of these estates. Unless
rubber export prices improve over the coming years (as predicted) and significant cost-



- 29 -
reducing measures are taken, the viability of both estates will remain marginal.
(iv)   HEVEGO, with its ERR of only 3.19%, has a cost structure higher than those of SOGB
and SAPH. Although the rate of return should not be a deciding criterion since
HEVEGO's primary objective is research, it should decrease substantially the costs of its
operations if it is to generate from its industrial plantations the revenues expected to
finance the cost of its research program.



-30 -
F7nandal Impact
Appraisal    Status        PCR Estimate
C.l   Key Indicators              Estimate      1990/91       At Full Production
(CFAF Million)
- Gross Value of Outgrowers
Production at Producer
Prices (APROMAC)                 N.A.           672         1,872
- Gross Revenue per Outgrower     N.A.          0.308         0.852
- Gross Value of Estate
Production at Effective
Factory Gate Prices              N.A.          4,774        6,056
- FOB Value of Outgrowers
and Estate Production
(Inflow of Foreign Currencies)   N.A.         6,690         10,486
C.2   Smallholder Cash Flow Rer Ha
Yr     Production   Farm Gate Price      Gross Revenue Product.Costs Debt Serv.    Net Flow
Appr. Compl. Appr. Compl.        Appr. Compl. Appr. Compl. Appr. Compl. Appr. Compl.
- kg/ha-    -CFAF/kg-                              'OOOCFAF
7      700   650  352    140            246    91    100   19        89    63    57       9
8     1,000   900  352    140           352    126    97    35    119    73    136    18
9     1,200  1,200  352    140          422    168    97    42    129    81    196    45
10    1,300  1,400  352    140           458    196    97    46     119    89    242    61
11    1,500  1,500  352    140           528   210    97    49      147    96    284    65
12    1,500  1,500  352    140           528   210    97    54    153   101   278    55
13    1,600  1,750  352    140           563   245    97    55      142   105   324    85
14    1,600  1,750  352    140           563   245    97    55      147    98    319    92
15    1,600  1,750  352    140           563   245    97    55    148    90    318    100
16    1,600  1,750  352    140           563   245    97    55      149    83    317    107
17    1,600  1,750  352    140           563   245    97    55       -      70    466    120
18    1,600  1,750  352    140           563   245    97    55       -      -     466    190
average debt service period:
1,360  1,445  352    140          479   202    97    47    134    86    248    69
Source:      SAR, June 1,1983
SAPHtDF, Rapport Hevea V Bis (Annex 3.13), 1991



- 31 -
C.3   Smallholder Net Income/Ha and Net Remuneration/Laborday
Estimated                Re-estimated
at Appraisal               A Compein
During       After         During       After
Debt Service  Debt Service  Debt Service  Debt Service
Production (Kg/Ha)                1,360        1,600         1,445        1,750
Farm gate Price (CFAF/Kg)          352          352           140           140
Gross Revenues('OOOCFAF)           479          563           202           245
Less Production Costs ('OOOCFAF)    (97)        (97)          (47)         (55)
Debt Service                      (134)          -            (86)
Net Income ('OOOCFAF)              248          466           69            190
Labordays/Ha                       80            80            64           64
Remuneration (CFAF/md)           3,100         5,825         1,078        2,969
Conments:
(i)    Present farm gate price declined by 60% from CFAF 352/kg field coagulum (produced
as cup lumps) to CFAF 140 (since April 1991 up to present date of May 1992)
(ii)   Under current conditions, subloans to farmers are smaller and production costs are
reduced, reflected in lower costs of debt service and production at completion.
(iii)   At current low farm gate prices, the laborday remuneration during debt service of CFAF
1,078 is only 8% higher than the opportunity cost of labor (CFAF 1000/md). To ease
the debt burden, SAPH and BNDA agreed that debt servicing should be flexible and not
exceed 30 % of the smallholder's gross revenue from the sale of his produce. The
repayment period would then be extended from 11 to 14 years, and the remuneration per
laborday would increase to CFAF 1,480.



- 32 -
D. Studies
1.    Para/Grabo Study
Purpose:      Evaluate the suitability of the Para/Grabo area
for establishing a new pole of rubber development in the South West.
Status:       Available surface suitable for new  large-scale rubber development
limited, and area already heavily invaded by migrant farmers. Additional
studies aborted because of Government's priority given to the
conservation of natural forests.
Imp2act:      Positive, as Government is now emphasizing rubber development based
essentially on smallholder and medium-scale private plantations.
2.     Treatment of Wastewater at the Rubber Factory AngufEdfou
Purpose:      Establish biological control of rubber effluent by the ponding system on
an experimental scale.
Status:       Sedimentation ponds have been constructed and the pilot plant is fully
operative.
Impact:       Pilot plant is serving as an example for rubber effluent control, and
similar system now operative at Grand-Bereby and under review at the
SAPH rubber factory at Toupah. Similarly, the pilot plant is providing
useful information for palmoil effluent control, currently being studied
by an consulting firm financed from proceeds of a Japanese Grant.
3.     MaRping of Existinf Smallholder Plantations
=P=urpose:    Produce detailed maps indicating the location of existing smallholder
plantations in the various regions for future rubber densification
programs and organization of produce transport to the nearest processing
facility.
Status:       Maps of the Bonoua, Dabou and Anguededou regions have been
prepared, and the mapping program is scheduled to be completed in
September 1992.
ImDact:       Maps will: (i) provide smallholders an essential tool in organizing them
in producers' groups, planning efficiently extension services, and
establishing efficient produce collecting and transporting systems
facilities in the area; and (ii) assist Government in defining its future
rubber densification programs in existing rubber areas.



- 33 -
7.      Status of Covenats
Loan Aaree ent
Section          Status                                  Description of Covenants                                  Comments
2.03         Compiled With           Borrower to maintain a Special Account in its name and sub-   Accounta opened and kept at
(CW)                accounts  in the name of SOGB, SAPH and HEVEGO  in a Bank   CAA.
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.04              CW                 Procurement procedures governed by the provisions  of  the   Procedures followed correctLy
schedule to the Project Agreement.
2.05              CW                 The closing date shalt be Septenber 30, 1989 or such later day   At request of Goverrment loan
as Bank shall estabLish,                                            extended  twice:  loan  was
closed on 09/30/91
3.02              CW                 A new entity for rubber research in RCI to be established under   HEVEGO was created by Decree
the  authority  of  the  Ministry  of  Scientific  Research   86-87 of January 30, 1986,
responsible to develop and manage industriaL and                    three  years  after  formaL
experimental rubber plantations in the G6 region,                   decision to create  the new
entity    was    taken    by
Goverrnent.
3.03              CW                 Rubber experts or consultants, satisfactory to the Bank, to be   Competent staff employed  nd
employed to carry out tasks assigned to HEVEGO, folLowing Bank   Bank  procedures  have  been
Guidelines on the subject.                                          correctly followed.
3.04              CW                 Rubber master plan outlining rubber development strategy, to be   "Note d'Orientation
*stablished not later than June 30, 1985 and its Implementation   relative   &   la  strat6gie
to be reviewed from time to time by Bank and Borrower.              h6veicole    ivoiriennew
prepared by Government
and rubber sector in JuLy
1988.    Strategy    reviewed
critically  during  SPN  In
February  1990  in  light  of
worsening economic outlook.
Borrower to amend existing contract with SAPH to include works
3.06              CU                 under the project and make available funds to SOG8 and SAPH   done
uinder agreed conditions.
3.07(a)           CW                 Borrower to open project accounts at CAA in the name of SOGB,   done
SAPH and HEVEGO.
3.07(b)           CW                 Borrower to make initial deposits out of its own resources into   done
above accounts.
3.07(c)           CW                 Borrower to deposit quarterly into the above project                Government    contributed
accounts 6-months operating needs of mentioned entities.            irregularLy  to the project
due to treasury probleo; its
total    contribution    was
however, generally met.
3.08              CW                 Borrower to relend part of the loan proceeds under an                "Accord   de   Rdtrocessionu
"Accord de R6trocession" to BNDA under terms and conditions   between  Borrower  and  BNDA
approved by the Bank.                                               signed establishing relending
procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.11(d)      Not  Complied  with    Project Completion Report (PCR) to be prepared by Borrower and   Only  HEVEGO  prepared  its
(NCW)                   presented to Bank not later than 6 months after Loan closing   contribution  to  Part  111.
date.                                                               SAPH, S0GB and Ministry of
AgricuLture comented on Part
I and IiI but did not provide
contributions to Part Ill.
3.12              CW                 Borrower shalL take all necessary measures, Including payment   done
of adequate compensation, to relocate inhabitants of areas
concerned by Part E of the project.
4.02(a)           CW                 Borrower to maintain/cause to/be maintained separate accounts   Separate  accounts  kept  at
to reflect project's activities under parts E and F.                CAA.



- 34 -
4.02(b)            CW                  The above accounts  to  be audited  each  FY  by  independent   HEVEGO  smtted  Its audit
auditors  acceptable  to  the  Bank and  audit reports  to  be   reports in due time.
furnished to the Bsank not later than March 30 of each year.
Prolect Aorsmnt
2.01 (a)           CW                  SOCB carry out Pert A, SAPH Parts 3 and C, BNDA and SAPH    Done.
jointly carry out Part D of the project.
2.02               Ct                  SOGI  train  local  staff  for  its  middle  and  upper  level    At project completion  most
mnagemnt positions, so that by the end of 1986 locaL staff   management  positions  were
wilL occupy most of said management positions,                        filled by Local staff.
2.05               CV                  To carry out Part D, INCA  nd SAPH to  mend Protocol to include   done
codistribution of credit to outgrowers, and BNDA make available
Loans In kind or cash under terms and conditions which Include
an interest rate of at least 11X  nd a repaym nt period of 17
years including grace period of 7 yesrs.
2.06               CW                  SOC3 shaLl (a) select an auditor to evaLuate the assets ft   done
maoes; and (b) not Later than December 31, 1993, take aLl
corporste and other actions necessary to revise its articLes of
association.
2.08              CIC                  BNDA  perform  all  its  obligations  under  the  Accord  de   Although BNDA did not violate
Rttrocessfon and the BNDA Agreement.                                  the agreements, it failed to
fuLly carry out its credit
operations which were partly
taken over by SAPH. BINDA went
bankrupt on 10/16/91.
3.01               CW                  Project Entities to each carry out its operations In accordance   Except  BNDA,  each  Entity
with  sound  practices  under supervision  of qualified  and   p e r f o r m e d    v e r y
experienced managemnt assisted by competent staff in adequate   satisfactorily.
gnbers.
4.01               CW                  Project  Entities  each  mintain   records  reflecting   its   Records  and  accounts  were
operations and finncisl condition, including separate accounts   spot-checked during  project
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are   SPN and audited anually, and
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statenents of   generally  found  to  be  in
expenditure (SOE).                                                    order.
4.02               CW                  Project  Entities  each  have  its  accounts  and  financial   Except at BNDA, audits were
statements for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors   carried  out    a  I ally  and
acceptable to the Bank.                                               clean  audit  reports  were
presented. BNDA's lest audit
report covered FY89 and no
oudit  reports   have  been
produced for following years
(institution    went    in
liquidation).
4.02 (b)           CW                  Project Entitles furnish to the lank not later then six months   SOGB and In particularly SAPH
after the  nd of each FY certified copies of Its financial   were late in presenting their
statements  for such year, report of such audit, including    audit  reports  within  the
separate  opinions by  suditors  in  respect of expenditures   mentIoned    six    months.
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the baesis of SOE.                 Separate  opinion  was  not
atways      automatically
Included, and furnished to
the Bank only as addeKka to
the audit report.



- 35 -
8. Use of Bank Resaorces
A. Staff Irwuts
Stsff Week by Fiscal Year Across Stages
Fiscal Year   Preappraisal   Approisal  Negotiation  Supervislon  Other   Total
1981        9.4                                                        9.4
1982       16.0          26.8                                  1.1    43.9
1983                     32.6         16.8           .1       21.9    71.4
1984                                              16.6                16.6
1985                                               9.0                 9.0
1986                                               7.7                 7.7
1987                                               12.9               12.9
1988                                               9.4                 9.4
1989                                               6.5                  6.5
1990                                               15.0               15.0
1991                                                7.2                7.2
1992                                              13.0                13.0
3333    .     33.o        33s3         33.3        3333   33333
25.4          59.3         16.8        97.3        23.0   221.9
Planned    37.0          51.0         12.0        63.0                163.0



B. Missions
Nurber      Days                       Performance
Stage for                             of           in     Specialization   Rating
Proiect Cycle      fonth/Year         Persons   Field   Represented a/   Status  b/          Types of Probleas SI
Through             N/A                 N/A      N/A      R/A                N/A
Appraisat
Appraisal           Apr 19-hay           3       22       AG, TCS. EC        N/A             Appraisat Nission
through             11, 1982
Board Approval
Supervision         Dec 23, 1983         1       07       TCS                2               Project effectiveness carried forward twice to currently April 17, 1984
pending futfitlment of effective conditions: (a) signature  nd legat
opinion on agreement between CAA and BNDA on the text of su.bsidiary loan;
(b) signature by Government of contract between SAPN/Borrower;
(c) signature by CAA of Amendment between BRDA/SAPH.
SuApervision        Nay 22-Jun           1       07       TCS                2               SOGB  nd SAPH experienced criticat financial constraints due to tack of
15, 1984                                                                 auto-finarre capacity.  The Cavally component was held up pending receipt
of satisfactory appraisal report from CCCE. Dispute between NINSR and
NINFIN over the form of entity to manage rubber research at Go also
hampered progress.
Supervision         Jon 10-Feb           1       14       TCS, FA            2               Research cORpenent at Go was the onty major outstanding Issue.
08, 1985
SLqpervision        Feb 13-19,           1       06       DDC                 N/A            Visit of the Tree Crop Research Stations to identify possibilities for
1985                                                                     strengthening their capabilities.
Supervision         Oct 7-15.            1       07       FA                  1              Shortcomings were: establishlent of the rubber research institute at Go
1985                                                                     where a two-year delay was expected; BUDA's toan disbursement to farmers
was two years behind schedule.
Supervision         Jun 04, 1986         2       7        FA, TCS             1              As above.
SL.pervision        Feb 5-13,            2       09       FA, TCS             2              Two years delay in establishing HEVEGO; Cavatty atso one year late; rubber
1987                                                                     plantations experienced financial difficulties due to low robber prices
and depreciation of the S; SOGB bypassed Bank's procurement procedures on
housing construction ($560,000 LCB); delays in distribution of cash credit
by BNDA.
Supervision         Jun 22-24,           2       02       FA, TCS             2              Availability of funds. As above.
1987
Supervision         Nov 30-Dec           2       06       FA, AG              2              Cash credit by BODA stitl lagging behind.  Farmer's own price support fund
05, 1967                                                                 depleted but believed to be replenished as rubber prices go up; getting
Govt export SAL III premium paid was a priority as it determined cash
flows for SAPH, SOGB and farmer's furd.



Supervision        Jan 16-21,           2      06       FA, AG            2               Strained retations between SOGB and Michelin (manging agent), which
1989                                                                  resutted in withdrawat of Michetin's TA team.  The tatter renegotiated the
TA contract with the new DC, Amethier (also PDG of SAPH) reptacing Dogoni;
DCGTx role in the sub-sector not cLearly defined and caused confusion
regarding HEVEGO's  nd DCGTx responsibility in preparing and presenting a
tand ctearing contract and executing works; frequent changing of hired
labor for tapping in smiLhotdings, causing variabte tapping quaLity,
wounding  nd sometimes high bark consumption.
Supervision        Feb 5-10,            1      05       AG                2              At original ctosing date (09/30/89), out of the 500 ha Bank-financed
1990                                                                  experiamentaL plantations, HEVEGO estabtished only 300 ha as a result of
four-years' delays in the creation of the new agency. Extension of
ctosing date by one year was envisaged in order to attow HEVEGO to
complete its planting progrm.
Supervision        Feb 5-10,            1      05       AG                2               HEVEGO attained 80X of its originat progrm as a result of detay in its
1990                                                                  creation, suspension of CDC  nd CCCE disbursements to the GoverrnAit in
1989, and late start of 1989/90 fietd operations due to disagreement (and
subsequent rejection) by donors on DCGTx-modified tand ctearing bidling
docuvent.
Sypervision        Nov 12-25,           2      13       AG, FA            2               Loan closing date on 09/30/91, preparation of Part 11 of PCR by March
1991                                                                  1992. Delays by Govt (10 wks) in signing the Amendment Letter of July 18,
1991, thus hotding SAPH disbursemets.
I/ Key to Speciatization: AG = Agronomist, FA = Financial Analyst, TCS= Tree Crops Speciatist, DDC = Deputy Division Chief
2/ Key to Status: 1 = Project free or minor probtems; 2 : Moderate probtems; 3 = Major probLems; N/A = Not applicable.






~~  ToA4a~~~~~~  ~~.  *        L       To  8o~~~~~~~~~~,oic  ?7O8OK~~~~~~~~~fl                        0                                               16?43R1[RD1673R
I L           sIen                          ALAYono.sokr 
TO                                                                                                                                                                                koupi~~D~ko~Gusoh    ~BNOUO
GWIGLO(g
C5            ~~~~RESERVOIRE
5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
~~~   ra~~~~~~~~sd Be.by ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ILtB
GRAN   SEEBY                                                                                   SPII  uclus  staes ad Oigrwek
*s, "u
  Soutbo,'. ~~~~~~~~ ~~.  ~~                                                               0      SAPII Ousgro4~~~~~~~ens
j  z R   Ett adEt,rmntlAe
5I      0EEA>                                                                                                                                                                                MEI~ t~~KLMEES -  ~ '  nerainlArot
~~~~~~~~~~~UR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORH                                                                                                       R 
I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~                                               0      Ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHr ToNuc.s e   ndOtt.
.~~~  COTE  ~ ~ ~ ~        ~           ,twv ~~~~~~e..*o,  ~~~~~~' I~~~'                                      .     Int~~RAEstateonal dB Exndrimes tlA*
*  U   IA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ab,dpon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~          ~          ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         SG   Eti
A,l,/M4~~~~~~~~UIfCfGufl6O   ~~~~~~~~~~~~VL5-5  >t  -~Pye   Rad
MAUITAIA                                                                                lg.I-a.,A-aEarh  .d                                                                                                                        1993Rad



