TDmmn or
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL MS ONLY
Ieuit No. P-3603-I-
RCEPOlT Jlm RECNDAlO
OF THE
PRESIDE T OF TBE
INTrNy a1i:AL BANK FOR TECOANSTICTION AND DEVEI
TO TM
EXECUIV DRECTORS
ON A
ROPOSED LOAN
mi AN AMOUNT oF uS$32.2 MILLO  EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLC OF THE IVOR  COAST
FOR TEE
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
June 1, 1983
Ie adil oi   lb e_em   x we 1eori  Jbe d w wi1w   Ww    m   Idftb l



CUrC EQUIVALEMS
Currency Unit                    CPA Franc (CPA?) 11
UlSS1.00                         CPA? 355
CFPA  1 million                  US32,817.00
PF 1.00               =          CPA? 50 1/
VEIGET AND JMASUIRES
1 kilometer (km)                       0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (kn2)               0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 hectare (ha)                         2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                        2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                       O.9B4 long ton
FISCAL YEAR
Government and RRA   Janeury 1 - December 31
5OGB, SAPE and BUDA: October 1 - September 30
ALBBREVIATIONS ADD ACRONYMS
APROMAC  - Association des Producteurs et Manufacturiers de Caoutchouc
Naturel
BNDA     - Banque Nationale pour le DIveloppement Agricole
CAA      -  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE     - 'Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CDC      -  Comnonvealth Development Corporation
IRCA     - Institut de Recherches sur le Caoutchouc (france)
RR.      - Rubber Research Agency
SAPH     - Soci'te Africaine de Plantations d' eveas:
SIPH     -  Societe Internationale de PlantationE' d'HeSv6as (France)
SOGB     -  Societe des Caoutchoucs de Grand-Bereby
UMOA     - Union Nonetaire Ouest Africaine (Vest African Monetary Union)
Il   The CPA franc is tied to the French Franc at 1FF to CFAF 50. The
French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOURTE RUBBER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUIDARY
Borrower:         Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:           USS32.2 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:            Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate
Onlending Terms: Government would on-lend funds for the outgrower support
programs to BNDA, on the same terms as the Bank loan, with
Government bearing the foreign exchange and interest
risks. Funds for other purposes would be passed to the
executing agencies acting as agents for Government.
Project
Description:      The project is designed to more than double the production
of rubber in the Ivory Coast by bringing into production
16,000 ha of rubber planted under earlier Bank assisted
projects and establishing 7,400 ha of new planting. About
60% of the new plantings, mainly on very small holdings of
less than 10 ha, will be by outgrowers who will receive
extension services, input supplies and credit under the
project. The project will develop a new 2000 ha nucleus
estate at Guiglo, together with the first phase of an out-
growers program surrounding it, and a new 1500 ha estate at
Go, to be run by RRA, of which 500 ha will be for experi-
mental research purposes. In addition to bringing to the
production stage the estates at Grand Bereby and Bettie, and
earlier developed outgrower schemes, the project will
develop a rubber processing fat:tory at Bettie and extend the
processing plant at Grand Bereby. Social infrastructure and
worker's villages will be provided on the estates. The
project will also include studies on the further development
of the Ivorian rubber sub-sector.
The project faces two main risks. First, the project could
encounter labor shortages particularly in the relatively
remote Guiglo and Go areas: the project itself, however,
provides training programs, housing, health and education
facilities on these estates whiich should attract labor and
reduce thia risk to an acceptable level. Second, the world
market price of rubber is a risk associated with the project
since a depressed price could make estate production
uneconomic and cause smallholders to reduce production.
This is considered unlikely in the light of recent Bank
forecasts which indicate good medium and long-term prospects
for natural rubber. The sharp rise in the price of rubber
in the tirst quarter of 1983 reinforces this vies.
[h  Tdocmnt ha a restricted distbuion and may be used by recipiens only in te pofonmance of
their ofrical6 d-ies. Its cntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local        Foreign        Total
US$ Million
SOGB - For Grand Bereby Estate            10.35          9.4          19.75
SAPH - For Bettie Estate                   3.3           4.3           7.6
- For Guiglo Estate                   7.3           7.5          14.8
- For Outgrower Programs              4.45          4.05          8.5
RRA  - For Industrial Plantation           4.55          2.75          7.3
- For Experimental Zone               2.5           2.1           4.6
STUDIES                                    0.3           0.5           0.8
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 32.75         30.6          63.35
Physical Contingencies            2.82          2.58          5.4
Price Contingencies               9.88          6.12         16.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS (including taxes)   45.45         39.3          84.75 1/
Front-end fee on Bank loan                -            0.25          0.25
Interest on external loans during
project period                           -           13.5          13.5
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                45.45         53.05         98.5
Financing Plan:
Bank                                       31.95
CCCE                                       21.2
CDC                                        14.0
Government/Taxes                           17.6
Total Project Costs                     84.75
Front-end-fee on  Bank loan                 0.25
Government interest on loans               13.5
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                98.5
Estimated Disbursements: US$ Million:
FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY9O
Annual              6.1     4.8     5.5    6.1      5.2     3.4     1.1
Cumulative          6.1    10.9    16.4   22.5   27.7   31.1    32.2
Economic Rate of Return:  14.8%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No 4176-IVC, dated June 1, 1983.
Nap:   IBRD 16743R
1/  Includes US$14.0 million equivalent of taxes.  Total Project Costs,
net of taxes, amount to US$70.75 million.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR THE FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$32.2 million to
help finance the Fourth Rubber project. The proposed loan iould have a term
of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at the standard
variable interest rate. The project would be co-financed by the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique of France (CCCE) which would provide
US$21.2 million and by the Commo..-ealth Development Corporation of the United
Kingdom (CDC) which would provide US$14.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The Report No. 1147b-IVC 'Ivory Coast: A Basic Ecornomic Report" was
circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its assessment of the
country's economic prospects has been periodically updated in subsequent
President's reports on specific projects following Bank missions. The para-
graphs below incorporate the principal findings of a mission which visited the
country in June 1982, and preliminary findings of more recent missions.
Following a mission in March 1983, a revised assessment of the country's
ecoaomic situation and prospects is being prepared in conjunction with a
proposed second Structural Adjustment loan which will be presented to the
Executive Directors shortly. Annex I provides basic country data.
Background
3.       During the first two decades afzer independence in 1960, the Ivory
Coast's gross domestic product increased at an average rate of 7 percent per
annum in real terms, one of the most rapid growth rates in the world for a
non-oil exporting country. As a result, GDP per capita was $1,200 in 1980,
the second highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. This record has been all the more
remarkable as the country has no important mineral resource or other special
*      natural endowment.  Growth performance has been mainly based on the efficient
development of agriculture and a productive use of foreign factors of pro-
duction, capital as well as labor, within an open economic framework. As a
consequence, and despite important diversification efforts, the country is
highly vulnerable to variations in the international environment, in parti-
cular to changes in coffee and cocoa prices and interest rates. This environ-
ment was relatively stable until 1976. Terms of trade fluctuations were not
substantial, even during the first large increase in oil prices, owing to
favorable export prices. The effects of moderate external shocks were in
large part countered internally by the establishment of a price stabilization
fund for agricultural products and externally through membership of the West
African Monetary Union (UMOA).



1. 2.    Present economic and financial stringencies stem largely from the
difficulties the country faced in adapting to the sharp changes which have
occurred in the world economy since 1976. Spurred by high coffee and cocoa
prices in 1976 and 1977, Government launched an ambitious public investment
program which rose to over 25 percent of GDP, some 40 percent of which was
financed by external borrowings. Moreover, because of high unit costs, exces-
sive scale, especially for the sugar, transport and education sectors, and
projects with low economic rates of return, this program did not generate
sustained economic growth. Together with increasing current Government expen-
ditures, public expenditures rose to 41 percent of GDP in 1980 including debt
service.  Since 1978 the external environment has been highly unfavorable; in
particular, terms of trade declined in 1981, for the third consecutive year,
by 14 percent. The significant external and internal imbalances resulting
from these factors led the Government to adopt a financial stabilization plan,
coupled with a 'Longer term program to adjust the structure of the economy to
the circumstances it will face in the eighties. The IMF is supporting the
stabilization plan with an extended facility, and the Bank made a $150.0
million loan in December 1981 in support of a structural adjustment program.
1.       The financial program consists mainly of a set of budgetary and
monetary measures aimed at increasing Government revenue, reducing current and
capital expenditures relative to GDP, restricting the size of external borrow-
ings while improving the debt profile, and containing monetary expansion. The
structural adjustment program calls for wide-ranging reforms in planning and
programming, institutions, and incentives. Public investment is being
directed to productive projects; public enterprises, particularly in agricul-
ture, are being reorganized and made more efficient, and the price, subsidy
and tariff systems will be overhauled to restore the growth of output in both
agriculture and industry.
The present economic situation
2.       Government has already succeeded in reducing the overall public
sector deficit and the balance of payments current account deficit, despite
three unfavorable factors beyond the control of the authorities. Terms of
trade declined a further 17 percent in 1982 and are about 40 percent lower
than their 1977 peak, an exceptionally strong shock. High international
interest rates substantially increased the debt service burden, and the pace
of oil production has not been as rapid as previously expected.
3.       The first objective of the stabilization program is to reduce the
public sector deficit, the increase of which is at the root of present exter-
nal imbalances. Results achieved in this area are positive: the deficit has
declined from 12.8 percent of GDP in 1980 to about 9 percent in 1982, while
Government arrears have been reduced by half to about CFAF 70 billion. Public
revenues have been increased by improving the efficiency of the tax system,
implementing new fiscal measures and freezing, since 1979, producer prices of
major cash crops on which the stabilization fund usually earns a margin. The
main effort to control public spending focused on capital expenditures, which
have been further c-lrtailed by about 25 percent in real terms between 1980 and
1982, and by cancelling or postponing expensive non-priority projects. The
trend of current expenditures expansion has been shifted. Greater financial
discipline, tariff increases for major public services, reduction of subsidies



-3-
through price increases of rice and petroleum products, improved financial
control of the parastatal enterprises sector, and restriction on educational
outlays have enabled the Government to reduce the current budget by about 2
percent in real terms during this period.
8.       Budgetary policy is reinforced by a tight monetary po7icy.  The
central bank has reduced rediscounting facilities expansion, increased, with
its UNOA partners, discount rates by 2 percent in April 1982, and imposed
strict ceilings on credit distribution. These policies have contributed to an
important slowdown of GDP growth. For the first time since 1960 the country
experienced a decline of national income: GDP in real terms declined by 1.3
percent in 1981 despite a record production of the main cash crops, and is
expected to decline further by 1.8 percent in 1982. The secondary sector has
been hit hard by the recession, especially construction and public works,
where value added has declined by about 45 percent in two years.  On the other
hand, the income of the large number of farmers producing coffee and cocoa has
been less affected because of stable producer prices.
9.       The evolution of external accounts is the most important short term
problem although progress has been more modest. The financial recovery pro-
gram enabled the current account balance of payments deficit to decline from
16 percent of GDP in 1980 to 13.7 percent in 1982 after a rapid deterioration
between 1978 and 1980. The overall deficit is expected to decline from CFAF
135 billion in 1982 to CFAF 50 billion in 1982. The unfavorable evolution of
coffee and cocoa prices, and the economic slow-down in traditional foreign
markets limited export increases in constant prices to about 7.5 percent be-
tween 1980 and 1982. The balance of payments has improved mainly through the
impact of monetary and budgetary policies and the effect  f new domestic oil
Froduction on imports; these are estimated to have declined by 17.5 percent in
real terms during this period. However, the debt service ratio rose from 24.5
percent in 1980 to 33.7 percent in 1982 because of the slow growth in exports,
high interest rates, and the need to finance the public sector deficit.
Medium and long-term economic prospects
10.      The medium and long-term economic prospects depend mainly on four
factors: the international environment, the pace of oil production, the
success of the present stabilization plan, and the impact of the structural
adjustment process. The international environment is not expected to improve
rapidly and no large gain in the terms of trade is forecast. However, the
recent important changes in the CFA franc exchange rate and the decline in
interest rates will be favorable factors for economic recovery. Development
in off-shore oil exploration and production is encouraging. Production in the
Belier field which began in 1980 has stabilized at about 8,000 barrels a cay;
the Espoir field started production during the third quarter of 1982 at a
level of 20,000 barrels a day, and new contracts for further exploration by
large foreign companies have been signed recently. The financial constraints
on economic development are likely to remain tight over the next three or four
years and the current restrictive fiscal, monetary, and debt policies should
continue until at least 1985. Over this period, the Ivory Coast public
finance and balance of payments position will remain weak, and the country
will have to rely on increased amounts of external aid inflows to provide



balance of payments support and to finance a high proportion of carefully
selected public investment projects, including local costs in appropriate
cases.
11.      Important improvements should take place in 1983 leading to a reduc-
tion in the level of new external borrowing commitments and in the current
account balance of payments deficit. Economic growth in real terms is
expected to rise to a 2.2 percent rate. In 1984 and 1985 economic growth is
forecast to remain positive, but at a lower rate than demographic growth, in
order to maintain the current account balance of payments deficit at a finan-
cially sustainable rate of about 8 percent of GDP. Improvement in the exter-
nal accounts will largely stem from the evolution of imports. Constraints on
the three major exports, coffee and cocoa for which price expectations are not
favorable, and timber, the production of which is not expected to increase,
will impede the short term growth of exports. Moreover, the impact of the
structural adjustment process is not expected to be substantial before 1985.
As a result the debt service ratio may rise to an average of 43 percent during
the 1983-85 period before beginning to decline.
12.      The longer term (1986-1990) outlook depends mainly on the level of
future oil production and on the expected impact of the structural adjustment
program. This program essentially aims at improving the scope and the quality
of the public investment program, generating public savings, reinforcing the
efficiency and financial situation of the parapublic sector, and promoting
growth of manufactured goods exports and of agricultural added value through
the implementation of better incentive policies. Future development in the
oil sector is indeed difficult to predict. It seems, however, reasonable to
forecast a net crude oil exportable surplus during the second half of the
1980s. In this regard two assumptions have been made. One is of a production
level of 3.5 million tons by 1987 which would permit the country to resume
real growth at its historic rate of 7 percent. Under this hypothesis the debt
service ratio would decline to 27 percent by 1990. Another, and more con-
servat_..ve, assumption projects production of 2.6 million tons in 1987, under
which GDP growth would need to be limited to about 4.5 percent a year during
the second half of the eighties with the debt service ratio declining more
slowly to 31.5 percent by 1990. Both scenarios are based on the quite
realistic assumption that the non-oil economy will grow at a reasonable, but
less than historic, rate, and that public savings will rise sufficiently to
finance an appropriate part of public investment and cover the service on
public debt.
13.      Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1981,
15.2 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 20.6 percent by inter-
national aid agencies (of which 69.9% by the Bank Group), and 55.6 percent by
private banks and bond issues, while 8.6 percent came in the form of suppliers
credit. About 75 percent of the total capital not supplied by international
aid agencies came from four channels: internationally syndicated loans
(33.3%), France (29.1%), USA (11%) and Lebanon (5.6%). France and the
European Communities remain the principal sources of development assistance in
grant form, accounting for about 1 percent of the flow of foreign assistance
to the public sector.



- 5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
14.      Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes forty-six loans totalling
US$1,025.9 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window), and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Of these loans, sixteen have been for agriculture,
supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development, and rural
development in the North-East Savannah and Center-West regions. There were
six road projects and a highway sector project. The remaining twenty-two
loans were for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drain-
age system, water supply, urban development, power distribution, tourism
development, small- and medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project, a
regional railway project and most recently for structural adjustment and
related technical assistanct zad a petroleum exploration and development pro-
ject. IFC's involvement includes participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de
Developpement Industriel amounting to US$423,500; a 10 percent equity invest-
ment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Confreville, the
largest textile plant in the country; and a US$6.4 million investment in
Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A. (Siveng) to double the company's fertilizer
plant capacity to 120,000 tons per year; in March 1980, IFC Board of Directors
approved an equity investment of US$446,600 and a US$2.9 million loan for MSO,
a flour milling company. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In general, imple-
mentation of Bank projects has been satisfactory and has improved substan-
tially over the past five years. The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed
during the fiscal year as a proportion of the undisbursed total at the start
of the fiscal year) has risen from 15.2% in 1977 to 26.1% in 1979 and to 35.2%
in 1981. The 1982 Ivory Coast disbursement ratio of 36.6% compares very
fav.rably with the Bank-wide average of 21.5% and with ratios for comparative
countries such as Tunisia (17.9%), Cameroon (20.8%) or Kenya (12.0%) for the
same year.
15.      The Bank's structural adjustment loan was a response to the Govern-
ment's decision to take firm measures to adjust the economy to the present
international environment and lay the basis for future growth. It also
reflects the close and frank dialogue on economic policy between the Bank and
the Ivory Coast. The structural adjustment program is proceeding well, and
the negotiations on a proposed second structural adjustment loan are scheduled
to take place shortly.
16.      Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the Govern-
ment's policy of crop diversification, promotion of exports, and increased
emphasis on developing smallholder production. A smallholder rubber project
was approved by the Board in October 1978, and two rural development projects
for the North-East and Center-West in March 1980 and June 1982, respective-
ly. In June 1979, the Executive Directors approved the first Rank forestry
project in the Ivory Coast which consists of a 20,000 ha. plantation program
of short- and medium-rotation hardwood species. The structural adjustment
program is focused on agriculture and includes far-reaching interim and long-
term reforms of agricultural public enterprises. The technical assistance
project, approved together with SAL, provides much of the technical manpower
needed for policy reorientation and implementation of new programs. In the



-6-
near future, the Bank is considering assisting integrated rural development
projects in the North and North-West regions, which will be designed to
execute an integrated crop strategy being developed under the structural
adjustment program, as well as further assistance to the oil-palm and forestry
sub3ectors. The Bank is also associated with the preparation of a mechani-
zation study and pilot scheme, carried out by the French CCCE, to determine
the feasibility of introducing light mechanized farming.
17.      Bank involvement in the transport sector started in 1969 through
carrying out, as dxecuting agency, the UNDP Transport Survey of the Ivory
Coast, which has served as a basis for determining future priorities among
transport investments. Thus far, the Bank Group has financed six road
projects totalling US$123.3 million, and a highway sector project in the
amount of US$100 million, which was approved in November 1980. The first pro-
ject was completed in December 1974 with final costs failing within appraisal
estimates. The ODD report on this project dated June 28, 1977, recommended
inter-alia, that more emphasis should be given to road mainten:ince. This was
addressed in the Third Highway Project. The Second Road Project was satisfac-
torily completed in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project
modification and subsequent poor work organization for the construction compo-
nent. The Third and Fourth Highway Projects, which are completed, incurred
substantial cost overruns which the Government has covered; otherwise,
execution proceeded satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project, which is near
completion, will contribute to a further improvement of the primary road
network of the country. A feeder roads and highway maintenance project was
approved in December 1977. The Highway Sector loan to finance a portion of
the country's highway investment program for i981-83 is now fully committed.
A railway project, focusing on the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara section
of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical
assistance and training, was approved in PY78, and has now been completed. A
second loan to the railway company (owned by Upper Volta and Ivory Coast) is
under study.
18.      The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts to
modernize the education system, in particular at the primary, secondary and
vocational levels, through two education projects. A Third Education Project
covering primary teacher training, vocational training and informal education
in rural areas was approved by the Executive Directors in December 1979.
19.      The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year Government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan. The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's low-income
housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. A second urban
development project, approved in August 1981, aims at improving the living
conditions of populations in low-income urban areas and at assisting Govern-
ment in carrying out its regional development policy of shifting rapid urban
growth from the capital cities to regional centers. With respect to the
smaller towns, the Board approved in FY78 a secondary centers water supply
project. A further project for water supply in Abidjan, secondary centers and
villages was approved in April, 1982.



- 7 -
20.      In the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July 1980
to finance power distribution facilities, technical assistance and the pre-
paration of the Soubre hydropower project which the Bank is now considering
financing. A Petroleum Exploration and Development Project for offshore
hydrocarbons was approved in June 1982.
21.      In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management in
the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy,
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises in FY76,
which has-been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale enterprise
project approved in March 1979, and two lines of credit for hotel financing
and technical assistance in the tourism sector. In June 1976, the Bank
extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support of the CIMAO project which is
sponsored jointly by tile Governments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo. CIMAO
utilizes limestone deposits in Togo for the production of clinker for the
cement market of the three countries.
22.      The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US£138.2 million annually in the PY1978-82 period. The average
annual lending rate is expected to continue to grow over the next few years.
The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end of 1982
stood at approximately 17.8 percent (including undisbursed). Its portion of
external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 7.2 percent to
about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt service, is
expected to rise from 7.1 percent at present to about 8.7 percent in the mid-
1980s.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.      Ivorian agriculture is highly productive and has been the main source
of the country's outstanding economic growth. Ivory Coast is Africa's largest
exporter of coffee, palm oil, bananas, pineapples and timber and one of the
world's biggest producers and exporters of cocoa. It is also one of West
Africa's main producers of cotton and sugar. The added value of agricultural
output at farmgate prices in 1981 was US$2.1 billion or 26 percent of GDP.
Agriculture and forestry, together with their generated effects on the indus-
trial and service sectors, account for some 40 percent of GDP and 70 percent
of total employment. Growth in the volume of agricultural output averaged
4.2 percent p.a. in the 1960s and 3.4 percent p.a. in the 1970s.  Favorable
movements in the country's terms of trade, which improved at an average of 8.5
percent p.a. in the period 1960-78, further enhanced agriculture's contribu-
tion to economic growth. The reversal of this trend over the past few years
is one of the key reasons for the present slowdown in agricultural production.
24.      The past success of Ivorian agriculture has been based on the effec-
tive utilization of the country's ~bundant natural resoUrces by pragmatic
Government policies attracting foreign factors of production supported by the
development of a sound infrastructure, inventive agricultural research pro-
grams, the establishment of crop development agencies, a remunerative farmgate



-8-
price incentive policy, and ambitious investment programs to expand tradi-
tional export crops and later to diversify into new ones such as oil palm,
rubber and cotton.
25.      Most Ivorian agriculture consists of smallholder production of cash
crops of which the most important, in the forest zone, are cocoa and coffee
and, to a lesser extent, oil palm, coconuts, rice and cassava, and, in the
savannah region, cotton, yams, maize and other fooderops.  Industrial planta-
tions, the most important being rubber and oil palm, account only for some
3 percent of total agricultural production. Despite a number of successful
efforts at diversification, cocoa and coffee still account for more than half
of the country's export earnings and about 35 percent of the value of farmgate
agricultural production. Cocoa production has increased rapidly. The volume
of output has quadrupled over 20 years from 94,000 t in 1961 to an expected
400,000 t in 1981 and is expected to increase substantially up to the mid-
1980s as a result of new plantings by farmers in the mid-1970s. Coffee output
has grown more slowly, reaching 300,000 t in 1973 and has since then stagnated
at that level, due to aging trees and insufficient maintenance and replant-
ing. Although the Ivory Coast retains the potential for considerable
increasad production of both these crops, any expansion of output must be
considered in the light of the depressed world markets expected during most of
the 1980s. Since 1977/78 there has been a precipitous decline by more than
50 percent in coffee and cocoa prices which, with rising import prices, led to
a 35 percent decline in the country's terms of trade between 1978 and 1981.
Government nevertheless recognizes that agriculture will continue to be the
sector with the most potential for the expansion of output, the regional
redistribution of income and for producing surpluses to support overall
development. Consequently it has embarked on a series of major reforms,
supported by the Bank's structural adjustment and technical assistance loans,
to deal with the situation confronting Ivorian agriculture.
26.      An important element of Government's agricultural strategy is to
further encourage diversification in the tree crop sector, so as to reduce
dependence on the weak cocoa, coffee and timber markets. Rubber has been
identified as one of the key crops in this strategy, with good medium to long
term price prospects and with significant growth expected in the 1980s in
imports of natural rubber by industrialized countries. Rubber planting is
currently one of the most promising growth areas in Ivorian agriculture.
The Rubber Subsector
27.      Commercial rubber production in the Ivory Coast started in 1962 when
plantings made in 1955 came into bearing. Since then, and particularly during
the past five years, encouraging progress has been made, with nearly 40,000 ha
planted by the end of 1981. Just over 16,000 ha of these plantings have
reached the production stage, although only half have reached their peak
yield. Over 80 percent of these plantings are on estates which are either
Government-owned or joint ventures with public enterprises. Some 2,700 ha
have been planted by private companies, and smallholder outgrowers plantings
have risen from 200 ha in 1977 to over 3,200 ha in 1981. Government plans to
increase rubber planting in the Ivory Coast significantly to reach 7b,500 ha
by 1990, of which some 26 percent is expected to be by smallholders. In 1981,



-9-
23,100 tons o? rubber was produced, most of which was exported. Planned
expansion programs would raise IvoU an production to around 200,000 tons per
annum by the end of the century.
Institutions
28.      In 1978, a 'Cellule Hevea' was established within the Ninistry of
Agriculture to be responsible for planning of the rubber subsector and for
control of the country's major development programs and projects. Although
this unit has not been wery effective in the past, the recent creation under
the structural adjustment program of a new Directorate of Studies and Planning
is expected to support and strengthen this unit. The principal public execut-
ing agencies involved in the rubber subsector, all of which are involved in
the present project, are described below.
29.      SOGB (Societe des Caoutchoucs de Grand Bereby) was created in March
1979, in accordance with agreements between Government and the Bank under the
Second Rubber Project (Loan 1575-IVC) to manage the Grand Bereby estate of
13,500 ha and processing plant. It was established as a mixed public/private
company with an initial capital of CFAF 1 billion held by Governm'-nt (90%) and
by SATAC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Michelin (10%). The agr&-ment estab-
lishing SOGB, which was approved by the Bank, made arrangements. f-r SOGB to
manage the Government-owned Grand Bereby estate for a fee. T  enable it to do
so, SOGB contracted Michelin to provide it with technical assistance. Govern-
ments' agreement with SOGB recognized that as the estate moved toward full
production, the estate would become capable of financing its ongoing opera-
tions and making surpluses, and the agreement specifies a capital increa_e of
SOGB no later than December 31, 1983, to enable SOGB to acquire the estate
assets currently owned by Government. Details of such a transformation of
SOGB from a management company into one which owns its assets and is respon-
sible for its liabilities have yet to be worked out. To enable such a trans-
formation of SOGB to take place a number of issues need to be further examined
in detail and resolved, including the valuation of the estate's assets and the
responsibility for financial liabilities already incurred in developing the
estate. With assistance of a specialized auditor acceptable to the Bank, the
Government will study these issues and implement a transformation of SOGB, to
be approved by the Bank, no later than the agreed date of December 31, 1983
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.06). SOGB will undertake an intensive
training program acceptable to the Bank for Ivorian staff for middle and upper
level management positions which is designed progressively to reduce the
Michelin foreign experts working with SOGB (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.02).
30.      SAPH (Societe Africaine de Plantations d'Heveas), established as a
private company in 1956, is now a mixed public/private company with a capital
of CFAF 4.0 billion shared between Government (60%), the French private
company SIPH (37%) and other Ivorian investors (3%). SAPH is the country's
major producer and exporter of rubber; it operates over 17,000 ha of estate
plantations with two processing plants and three new factories under construc-
tion. It also manages a sizeable smallholders program as well as three
Government-owned estates under a management contract. It is responsible for
the organization and provision of extension services to the smallholder
program that it manages. SAPH is a well-managed enterprise with a staff of



- 10 -
4,000, and has successfully replaced a large number of its expatriate experts,
provided under a technical assistance contract by SIPE, with Ivorian
employees.
31.      BNDA (Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole), the principal
source of formal credit to smallholders, operates in close cooperation with
SAPH, which provides extension services and distributes physical inputs to
outgrowers. BNDA is generally well managed and its loan recovery rates are
satisfactory.
32.      Rubber Research Agency (RRA). Until recently, rubber research in the
Ivory Coast -ras performed by the French Institut de Recherches sur le
Caoutchouc (IRCA) under the responsibility of both the French and Ivorian
Ministries of Scientific Research. The French Government, however, is in the
process of reforming its research institutions, including the African coopera-
tive programs, and this in turn has required that the Ivory Coast adapt the
institutional arrangements under which its own research programs are under-
taken. As a result, the Ivorian government will create before June 30, 1983,
a new entity (RRA), under the authority of the Ministry of Scientific
Research, responsible for rabber research, and which will be responsible for
executing the project's research component (see para 43).  The new entity will
possess the financial autonomy, the technical and organizational capacity, and
a management structure acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan igreement, Section
3.02).
Past Experience in the Sector
33.      The Bank has made significant contributions to Ivorian agriculture,
particularly in oil-palm, coconut, rubber, and cotton developmeat (16 projects
totaling USS181.6 million - see para 16 above). More recently, it has sup-
ported a program of policy reform in the agricultural sector through its
structural adjustment loan. The rubber subsector has been supported through
three loans (Loans 938-IVC, 1575-IVC, and 1633-IVC), two for the development
of the Grand Bereby estate in the south west and one for the development in
the south and south east of nucleus estates and smallholder programs managed
by SAPH.
34.      Whereas the first Grand Bereby project (see PPAR: Sec. M8t.559) was
affected by some initial manageaent problems, as well as unforeseen rates of
inflation, the second has been successfully executed.  The planting target of
13,500 ha was reached in October 1981, one year ahead of schedule, and total
project costs are expected to be about 3 percent above appraisal estimates.
Physical progress on the SAPH project has been good and planting targets
should be met shortly. The training and extension services to participating
smallholders have been more intensive than forecast at appraisal, which partly
accounts for an anticipated 19% total cost overrun on this project. However,
the two ongoing rubber projects have been beset by financial problems due
largely to delays in the enterprises receiving funds channeled through CAA.
Measures to ove-come this problem for the proposed project are described in
para 45 below.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.      The project was identified by the Bank and prepared by SAPH, SOGB and
IRGA. It was jointly appraised in April/Nay 1982 by the Bank, CCCE and CDC.
Negotiations took place in Washington in March 1983, with an Ivorian delega-
tion led by H.E. Rene Amany, Ambassador to the U.S. The project is described
in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report No. 4176-IVC, dated June 1, 1983,
which has been distributed separately. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
36.      The project, to be implemented over a five year period, would
substantially increase the production of rubber in the T:ory Coast.  It will
bring into production 16,000 ha of rubber planted under earlier Bank-assisted
projects and establish new plantings of 7,400 ha, of which 500 ha will be for
experimental research purposes. Of the 23,400 ha of plantings assisted by the
project, 65 percent will be on estates and 35 percent would be on outgrowers
farms, all of which would be smallholdings of less than 10 ha. About 1,800
smallholders will participate in the project and smallholder plantings, which
were 300 ha in 1978, should reach about 7,500 ha after project completion.
The project will also provide employment and housing for some 6,500 workers on
estates. Total rabber production from the new plantings and those brought to
maturity under the project will rise to over 56,000 tons per annum, or to more
than double the total present Ivorian output, when these plants reach their
peak production pohase.
37.      The project as originally appraised included the establishment of a
2,000 ha nucleus estate and initiation of the first 400 ha of a 1,000 ha
smallholder progr&m on degraded forest in the Guiglo region. The Ivorian
Government subsequently decided not to declassify the forest area originally
appraised, and has proposed a contiguous site recently designated for future
agricultural use to the south of the original site. The Bank has received the
results of a first phase of detailed topographical studies and soil tests and
these indicate that the new site is suitable for rubber plantation.  A second
phase of full physical, economic and financial studies is now underway and
will be followed by a full appraisal to be undertaken by the French CCCE;
receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory CCCE appraisal report and fulfillment of
all conditions of disbursement of the co-financiers' loans for this component
are conditions of disbursement for this component of the proposed loan
(Schedule 1, para 3 of draft Loan Agreement).
Project Description
38.      Whereas each earlier Bank-supported rubber project dealt with a
single agency, this comprehensive project addresses the country's rubber
programs as a whole, and would be implemented by all the three main public
agencies involved, SOGB, SAPH and RRA. The principal components of the
project would be:
a.   bringing into production of 10,500 ha of presently immature plantings
on the 13,500 ha estate managed by SOGB at Grand Bereby; extending
the rubber processing factory, and renewing equipmen_ and vehicles to



- 12 -
accommodate increased production; and providing additional workers'
villages and social infrastructure as extensive new areas come into
tapping;
b.  bringing into production 2,000 ha of young rubber at the SAPH-run
Bettie nucleus estate; renewing vehicles and equipment and con-
structing a rubber factory to process the output from the estate and
the surrounding outgrower smallholdings; construction of a second
workers' village and other social infrastructure for the additional
workers on the Bettie estate;
c.   establishing and developing on degraded forest in the Guiglo region,
a Government-owned 2,00C ha nucleus estate to be managed by SAPH.
The project will providL for land clearing, planting and initial
maintenance of the estate, together with the infrastructure,
utilities, estate headquarters, workers' housing, vehicles and
equipment; it will also develop the first 400 ha phase of a 1,000 ha
smallholder outgrowers program, assisting farmers close to the estate
to clear their land, plant and maintain 5 to 10 ha of rubber;
d.  providing, through SAPH extension services, input supplies (fer-
tilizers, agrochemicals, tapping equipment and tools) and, in
conjunction with BNDA, financial assistance to farmers participating
in the SAPH ongoing 3,500 ha outgrowers programs, the new 3,500 ha
outgrower program in the south-east, and first 400 ha phase of the
Guiglo outgrover program;
e. establishing at Go in the southwest a 1,000 ha Government-owned
estate and a 500 ha experimental research area, both to be run by
RRA. The project will provide for land clearing, planting and
required infrastructure, buildings, water supply, housing, equipment,
vehicles and training facilities. The experimental area will be used
for RRA's trials on varietal improvement and cultural techniques.
There are some squatters on the site and the project includes
adequate provisions and funds for their relocation and compensation;
and
f.   undertaking additional studies to complement the Rubber Naster Plan
study, in particular on the identification of nsw sites for rubber
development, the optimal size of nucleus estates, and on further
development of outgrower programs.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
39.      Total project costs over the five year project period are estimated
at US$84.8 million, including US$14.0 million in taxes and foreign exchange
costs of US$39.3 million (46 percent). The above estimates are based on May
1983 prices and include (a) physical contingencies of 10 percent on all costs
except salaries and (b) price contingencies of 12 percent p.a. on local costs
and, on foreign costs, 8.0% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6%
thereafter.



- 13 -
40.      Project costs have been estimated for the period July 1983 through
July 1988, but given the schedule of the rubber production cycle expenditures
of US$5.0 million will have to be incurred on project components prior to July
1983.
41.      The net of tax project costs of US$70.8 million would be financed
jointly by loans from the Bank (US$32.0 million), CCCE (US$21.2 million) and
CDC (US$14.0 million), with a Government contribution of US$3.6 million equi-
valent. The joint external financing would cover 69 percent of the total
finacing required for the project and would include $39.3 million of foreign
exchange costs and $31.5 million of local costs. This level of external
financing is required given that Ivc;y Coast is going through a period of
acute financial stringency, and the heavy debt service burden that Government
is carrying for long-gestating rubber projects. It is estimated that over the
project period, the Government will be providing US$48.0 million in debt
service for rubber sector investments, including US$13.5 million for this
project.
42.      The Bank loan of USS32.2 million would be deployed as follows:
US$15.45 million for SOGB, US$10.5 million for SAPH, of which US$3.5 million
for the Guiglo estate; US$5.0 million for the BRA experimental zone; $0.5
million for BNDA loAns in kind, US$0.5 million for studies, and US$0.25
million for the Bank's front-end fee. The effectiveness of the CCCE loan and
the CDC loan for the Bettie and outgrowers components of the project would be
a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (draft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(b) and (c)).
Implementation
43.      The project will be executed by SOGB and SAPH in conjunction with
BNDA, and by RRA. Arrangements for changes in the structure of SOGB, which
will implement the Grand Bereby estate component, have been specified in para
29 above.  rne mAnagement contract between Government and SAPH signed under
Loan 1633-IVC would have to be extended and modified to cover the components
of the proposed project to be managed by SAPH, and signature of such a modi-
fied contract, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effective-
ness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(f)). RRA will run the plantation and
experimental zone at Go on beahalf of the Ministry of Scientific Research, on
the basis of a contractual arrangement satisfactory to the Bank. BRA's
General Manager will have overall responsibility for this component, but
implementation will be under the direct supervision of a Project Manager and
the Chief of the experimental zone; these two positions will be filled at all
times by persons with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(c)). Conditions of disbursement for
expenditures under this component would be that the RRA has been established
and the contractual arrangement with the Ministry of Scientific Research has
been made, both satisfactory to the Bank, that RRA has employed consultants or
rubber experts satisfactory to the Bank, and that disbursement conditions of
the cofinanciers' loans for this component have been met (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 1, para 3).
44.      BNDA, in conjunction with SAPH, will implement the loan program for
outgrowers. Two types of loans are involved, loans in kind distributed by



- 14 -
SAPH but administered by BNDA, and loans in cash distributed and administered
by BNDA. To take account of the extensions under the proposed project, the
existing agreement between Government and BRDA on assistance to outgrowers
will be amended and will include rationalization of the disbursement process.
Signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and BNDA and of
amendments to contracts between Government, SAPH and BNDA to include new
outgrower programs would be conditions of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01 (a), (g), and (h)).
45.      To facilitate project implementation and in order to avoid cash flow
problems that have affected past Bank-financed projects in the sector, a
revolving fund, to cover an estimated six months of project-related expendi-
tures, will be established at the CAA. It will be funded by the cofinanciers
in proportion to their financing net of taxes, including $3.0 million from the
Bank, and $1.8 million from government. Establishment of separate revolving
fund accounts, would be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 6.01(c)). Establishment of project accounts, as well as deposit
by Government of its contribution to the project accounts would be conditions
of disbursement for the respective components of the project (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para 3). Assurances were also obtained at negotiations
that these project accounts would be expeditiously replenished at the request
of the executing agencies with adequate funds to cover estimated expenditures
for six months (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(c)).
Procurement
46.      The first phase of the Grand Bereby processing factory was financed
by Michelin and built to its own engineering specifications and standards to
meet the processes it uses. As the second phase extension to this factory
would in part have to follow precisely the same standards and utilise com-
patible processes, provision has been made for direct negotiated purchase of
some factory equipment where appropriate (Para B.4 of the Schedule of the
draft Project Agreement). Civil works for the factory would be procured
through local competitive bidding. CCCE would finance, under its own procure-
ment guidelines, light vehicles valued at US$1.3 million. All other goods and
services would be procured under the Bank's procurement guidelines. Contracts
of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded through ICB. Goeds so
procured are estimated to cost US$20.1 million (Bank US$7.9 million) and would
mainly consist of fertilizers, chemicals, other equipment and vehicles.
Contracts for goods and services worth less than US$100,000 but more than
US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Such contracts
are not expected to exceed US$14.7 million (Bank US$5.6 million).  They would
include housing, other buildings and factory infrastructure scattered on
various estates and are unlikely to attract foreign bidders. Contracts for
goods and services between US$10,000 and US$50,000 would require quotations
from not less than three suppliers and would not exceed a total of US$6.7
million (Bank US$2.6 million). Purchases worth less than US$10,000 would te
made by prudent shopping and included in the operating costs. About 62 man-
years of technical assistance, recruited under procedures acceptable to the
Bank, would be required during project implementation, at an average cost of
US$8,400 per man month, including salary, allowances, and travel.



- 15 -
Disbursement
47.      The Bank loan would be disbursed over six years and would cover:
a)   64% of the total cost of goods and services and 70% of the factory
costs for the SOGB Grand Bereby estate (US$12.35 millio7n equivalent);
e           b)   79% of the total cost of goods and services for the experimental zone
(US$4.1 million equivalent);
c)   33% of the total cost of goods and services for the Bettie estate
(US$2.87 million equivalent);
d)   18% of the total cost of goods and services for the Guiglo estate and
of the loans in kind to outgrowers (US$3.23 million equivalent);
e)   46% of the total cost of goods and services for outgrowers (US$2.75
million equivalent);
f)   50% of the cost of studies (US$0.5 million equivalent).
US$3.2 million of the Bank loan would be unallocated. Disbursements for
expenditures on civil works, equipment, vehicles and technical assistance
would be fully documented. Disbursement for local salaries and operating
costs would be against certified statements of expenditure; full supporting
documentation showing costs incurred by category would be retained by the
executing agencies and available for inspection by the Bank.
Markets
48.      Responding to the demand in European markets and using Michelin tech-
nology, SOGB produces block rubber, a type of rubber that has an advantage
over sheet rubber in that its technical qualities can be specified accu-
rately. SAPH also has had successful experience in producing block rubber and
is expected to continue to process rubber in this form. Rubber production
from these two companies is expected to be exported to European countries,
especially France. SOGB has a contract to sell directly to Michelin with an
option to sell to others if they offer better terms. SAPH production is sold
through EURONAT, a SIPH subsidiary. EURONAT charges SIPH a 2.5 percent
commission of the CIF value, which includes guaranteed recovery of proceeds.
The long-term market for rubber is good since natural rubber is expected to
remain technically and economically competitive with synthetic rubber.
Project outputs are valued using the world market price forecast for RSS I
quality rubber adjusted for quality differential, transportation cost,
insurance and marketing charges. An appropriate pricing system is critical
for the success of the outgrowers program. A formula based on quarterly
international prices, adjusted for the costs of collection, transport, and
processing, to be applied to all outgrowers has been approved by Government
and implementation of this pricing system would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(d)).



- 16 -
Financial Returns
49.      The financial analyses of each project component, which are based on
annual cash flow, income and balance sheet statements throughout the bearing
life of the project, show that the project is highly profitable. From 1988 to
2009, when SOGB would have its 13,513 ha in full production, the Grand Bereby
estate would earn US$818 million in self-generated funds.
50.      Despite its need for a US$21.0 million second tranche in the 1989-93
period to construct the processing plant and bring rubber trees into maturity,
Guiglo Estate would generate funds steadily after 1995. During the expected
life of the estate, Guiglo would earn US$109 million in self-generated funds.
51.      The financial return per ha of smallholder rubber during the expected
bearing life is quite favorable compared to other crops, despite the time-lag
before production starts. During the investment period the cash flow is
negative. During the next 9 years, a positive cash flow of USS600 per ha
would be generated above and beyond loan repayments. After 15 years when the
loan would be fully repaid, the net yearly revenue would rise to US$1,200 per
ha. The total net revenue per hectare during the bearing life would be
US$29,000.
Project Benefits
52.      Increased rubber production under the project would enhance the
Governmelt's program of agricultural diversification and rural development in
the South East and the South West. The project would yield an average of
56,000 tons of rubber exports and US$65.4 million of foreign exchange per year
(in 1982 dollars), during the peak production period. For outgrowers, farm
budgets indicate average revenue per man-day allocated to rubber production by
small farmers of approximately US$12 during the period of loan repayment and
US$17 thereafter. The project would benefit 1,780 small-farm families and
would also create roughly 6,500 jobs for hired laborers. The project, by
strengthening rubber research, would make rubber production economically more
attractive in the Ivory Coast.
53.      The economic rate of return for the whole project is estimated at
14.8 percent, assuming that the Guiglo component has a rate of return of 13.7
percent comparable with the estimate for the original site, with each com-
ponent as follows:  SOGB, 13.5 percent; SAPE, 18.1 percent; Guiglo, 13.7
percent and RRA, 13.5 percent. The economic rate of return is relatively
insensitive to moderate changes in costs and benefits. A 10 percent and 20
percent increase in costs would reduce the project rate of return from 14.8
percent to 13.5 and 12.4 percent, respectively. A 10 percent and 20 percent
increase in benefits would raise the rate of return to 15.7 percent and 16.8
percent respectively.
Risks
54.      The project faces two main risks.  There is the risk, particularly
for the relatively remote Guiglo and Go components, of possible labor short-
ages: the project, however, does provide alternative training programs,
housing, health and education facilities on these estates which should reduce



- 17 -
this risk to acceptable levels. Second, the world market price of rubber is a
risk associated with the project, since a depressed world price could make
estate production uneconomic and cause smallholders to reduce production.
This, however, is unlikely in light of recent Bank projections which indicate
good long-term price prospects for rubber. The sharp rise in the price of
rubber in the first quarter of 1953 reinforces this view.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement among the Bank, SOGB, SAPH and BNDA, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article nII, Section 4 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
56.      The draft Agreements conform generally to the normal pattern for
agricultural projects. Special conditions of the loan agreement are noted in
Section III of Annex III.
57.      r am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 1, 1983.



-18-                                  ANNEX I
Page I
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                  REZEREIWE GROUPS (WEICIHID A   S
AWREA (TBIOUSANDO  RC.                                                    IL - MUST        CStla ESTMTE
TOLAL   -         .5                                                        INCVUtmm        NlO    NCOMDDL E IlC
AGRICULTURAL    68.5             1960 lb   1970 /b ZSrIxuZ lb  AFRICA SOUTH Or SANAB  NOR  MRC  6 mamma 3AM
CUP PM CAPITA (US8)               270.0      560.0   1150.0              1053.2                 1253.6
lIERS  CONSUOTImON PER CAPTA
(KILOGRMS OF COAL EqUiVALENT)    71.0      209.5    230.2               610.1                  713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPUIATION. NIDTEAR (THUSAS) 3460.0       5000.0   6262.0                   .                                                     0
URBAN POpULATION (PERCENT O ToL) 19.3       27.6     39.6                28.3                   67.3
POPULATION PROECTIOI
POPUIATION IN TeR  20DO (BILLIONS)                  11.8
STA&IONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    47.4
lEAR STATIDNARY POPULATION IS REACHED             2110
POPULATION DENSlIT
PER SQ. NIM.                   10.7       15.5      26.6               54.7                   35.8
PER SQ. ER. AGRICU.TURAL LAND    61.2     86.7    115.9               129.9                  420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-16 uIS.                      43.8       42.9      46.7               46.O                   44.3
15-6   S.                       53.6       55.0      53.3               51.1                   52.4
65 URS. AND ABOVE                2.6        2.2       2.0                2.8                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                           2.1        3.7je    5.0/c               2.8                    2.8
URBAN                           6.0        7.3       8.6                5.2                    4.6
CRUDE B11n HAIE (PER THOUSAND)    50.2      49.3     49.6                47.2                   41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER IBlUSAND)    26.2     22.0      17.3               15.7                   12.2
.ROSS REPRODUCTION ATE            3.3        3.3      3.3                 3.2                    2.9
FAUILY PLANINIG
ACCEToIS. ANNUAL (THUSANDS)      ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OP NARRIED MNO)   ..         ..
FOOD A- NUT1RION
INDEU OF FOOD PIODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       99.0       97.0    111.0                 90.7                 ICC.4
PER CPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEIT OF
REQUIRBENTS)                118.3       118.8    106.6/d              93.9                 108.3
PROrEUIS (CRAS PEIL DAY)       56.6       59.4      53.27              54.8                   71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE    14.8       16.0      15.Srd              17.0                  18.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) OIRTALIT RAE    39.3       32.3      26.1               23.9                   15.1
LiP EXPECTANCY AT S31TH (TMUS)   37.2       42.2     67.1                51.0                   56.9
LNAT  NDAr  RTE (Pu
THOUSAND)                       173.0      148.5    126.8               211.5                  101.3
ACCESS TO SASE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                            ..         ..      19.0                  ,                   59.1
URBAN                            ..         ..      50.0o7               ..                   83.1
RURAL                            ..         ..       5.ofl               ..                   39.8
ACCESS TO nSRETA DISPOSAL (PERCECT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            ..        5.0      25.0/                ..                     ..
UI3A                             ,,       23.0      33.0o7.
RURL                             ..         ..      22.07;
POPMLATION PER PHYSICIAN      29187.0/f  14084.5  21043.6ft           16185.2                 4015.5
POPULATION Pma NURSING PERSOIN   2920.07ii  2810.2/f 15FS.3L!g         2213.2                 1802.2
POPUIATION PER HSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         678.8      792.7        ..              1036.4                 641.7
URBAN                            ..      492.7        ..              430.8                  538.3
Rm                               ..      1331.4       ..             3678.6                 Z403.3
ADMIISSIONS PER    ITAL D          ..         ..        ..                 ..                   25.5
HOSIID
AVERACE SIZE OF HOXlSEHLD
TOTAL                            ..         ..
UEN"                            3.41l       ..
RRAL                             ..         ..
AVERAE NEMR OF PERSONS PR ROON
TOrAL                            ..         ..
URN                             1.81        ..
MAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
CF DWEI.UINS)
IVTAL.                           ..         ..
URBAN                           0.7k        ..        .
UAL                              ..         ..



- 19 -                                   ANNEX I
Pa" 2
TAME 34
IVOe - SOCVL DECMOs DATA MS
nRY COAST                    U IQE QcOBF CUIUD  A9N:E
- DSr TCUICT ESTI
MaSt mCuIar        nImDs UcWII             IlItE INCOM
190  /b  '970 lb ESTIMAIR lb   £C& SOM Or mADAM  lMOM AFRIA & IM * Et
EDUCATION
ADJuSTED ENBOLLzr UAOS
RIKARY:    TOTAL                46.0       63.0      74.0                83.3                   36.7
MALE                68.0       81.0      91.0                96.1                  104.5
FEMALK             24.0        46.0     56.0                 80.4                   72.0
SECONOAR:  TOTL                  2.0        9.0      15.0                15.3                   39.7
MALE                4.0        14.0      23.0                19.4                   49.3
FERIn               1.0         4.0       B.0                11.3                   29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECOIUIY) 12.7        7.4      11.0/h               4.7                   10.1
PUPL-TACuER RATIO
PRD4l                           40.7       45.0      61.1                38.6                   34.1
SECONMI                           ..       21.1        ..                23.4                   23.7
AODULT LIrERACr RATE (PERCENT)     5.0       20.0    '1.2                  35.6                   43.3
COIISUNFTION
PASSENGER CAM PER INOUSD
PoPULATION                       3.3       11.3      12.11               31.9                   17.8
RADIO RECE1VERS PER IHOtSAIID
POPULATION                      15.9       15.0    113.1                 71.8                  131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       0.4/h      6.6      41.0/d              17.9                   44.1
NENSPAPER CV1AILY GEIRAI
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PUR
THOUSAND POPULATION                2.3        6.8       6.7                19.1                   31.5
CDINM    AJIUAL ATTENANE PER CAPIT   ..       2.0       0.8                 0.6                    1.7
LABOR FORCE
5¶tL1. POiCt CIHoONDS)    1857.9           2658.0   4127.9
PEKALE (PERCET)                 46.2       42.7      41.5                36.5                   lO.6
AGRICUITURE (PERCENT)           89.0       84.0      79.0                56.5                   42.
INDUST  (PERCENT)                2.0        3.0       4.0                17.7                   27.8
IARlTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             53.7       53.2      50.0                37.0                   26.0
rALE                              58.4       59.3      56.5                46.9                   46.2
FIEALE                            49.1       46.7      42.9                27.2                    5.6
ECOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.9        0.8       0.9                 1.3                    1.9
[NCOS DISTRIBRUTON
mcmh aF PRIV&DAV IMUl
REEVED ST
HIGNEST 5 PERCENT Or N rUSEDULD   30.9/1
RICHEST 20 PEIRCCNT Or vNsUSO    51.87!      .         -.oli- .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF BOlJZEOLDS   6.67!      ..       9. 71'I
LT 40 PERCENr OF OUSDUMS   16.S7!            ..      20.0
POV0r TARGLQr GROUPS
ESIJAED ABSOLUtE aOVER   IGNUE
LEVEL CUBS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..    274.0                507.0                  279.2
RURAL                             ..         ..      96.0               200.6                  178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVZ POVERM  INCOMID
LEVEL (USS PER CAPIA)
URA                               ..         ..      87.0               523.9                  403.6
RURAL                             ..         ..    244.0                203.6                  285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ARSOIJIIE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
CRlII                             .           .         ..                                      22.1
RURAL                             ..         ..        ..                  ..                   30.9
Not ayailable
lot applicable.
NOES
la  The group averages for each Indicator ae populatrioa-uflhtad a*itlmttc mans. Coverage of coontries
song the indlcator. dapefda on avalability of data and la not unfDu.
lb  Unlesa othervie noted* data for 160 rafar to any jar betea  1959 ad 1961; for 1970. bht_*n 1969
ad 1971; and for Moat Recadt Estimtse between 1976 ad 1980.
Ic  Iue to Ig4ra&cinn populoatin grouth rate Is higher than rate of natural InCttea; Id 1977; Ia 1976;
If Government parsonnl only; A& 1975; /h 1963; Ii 1957-581 African population fInt7h city of hiuhe
only; LI 1962; Ik 1956-57; /flFopulatIo;  /I 197-76.
Nay. 1982



- 20 -                                                                         ANNEX I
leota: sakvesh the data er drea vs- autime me-reil 3s11 tI. -L meherftametve ad rlmiau. It .1md ala he Mudi thea wy my at ha lain-
athewely Cempmmrl. heeo at thin Inck .1 totmimdleod daleetmoem, as slcpa. aSe hy difllmea maria to InalMtectie the lee. ohe te are, MM
tlmam.,-  mlel  tm dee-rlba made. ataai a  im.teet  trea.. ads-          maoi  ematcta  ejar dlferms  Mt            Metum    asia
lo roeturne grepe. a- (L) the m- sntry trap at the ahjmil r-emar lo 12) a c-amry armup with minIm" ba hih -nang Mama, an the cmamy gmow
at ih. -M-bt cactrp (wept tot  'Koh lmea   Gel ftlmnert amp wher aludd.lele              e,um  15kh drtive ad KLA1i. Kial" Le shee  heomm  at swaM
maim-ealteral  tliiae).  Ia the inegr. rw data tb. tavr. eta pepaleta. -L~te  altiaic -mam  ler ash IsiamtmaN Ad                     ex Sa  sip lu
a-Iaciy afthib  cetrim    le  irap hu. d.te tar that ledisem.. SUm. the .Cetm.   ml asiniLe    -A the tadleetrer  dep.adm - U theellshility ml doee
ad  . at aLImfe    ..eatia  mt ha -mge."d lam relmileg earmm  ml am  fledite  C methmr. Tam- mwamma am alp Maiml Is Q-pmrisa the veIn ml
o  aIcetm  at a tIe  c-am  the  -teaiy ad retamev  iran..
Tmetl - Thimi -ama er   apll    ed arelead telad  etermi illi data.                     ta,a rtildtddh  their tapatm                    .m  mmtlo im
Air1mltrc - Rmemmma ael-       .tareL ar  acd tmere.-llv - P.taml                       elet   a  *i   d  rvt georsl -ad mpmaelid haaptael adta
mer    ,tpreem  *  rbet ad hlttham gaTdea  -  te ie. (ai11.; 1979 dale.       h11itetisn eate".  "eIt."le a          telo"hienam pwmotlp mactSr
hi at lama - phyIAetM. BetehlCledilee pramidima palnflpelly cmee-
UpPt CAPItA (M)i -CtP pat .apIta ea1tiema -  -eafuet -erbt prima. ad -                diet mere en at imlmdo. 2-1 elopital.. b-m,. ivelaa amolb
esitmi by ma    twmae  meSa cm World Sad Atlas (197540 ha-lall too.                   ad u disa      atma t p -mraely m.ImEed by a phbsyelaa  Chat hy a
1910, ad 196 deem.                                                                     m=e1 emastiet. aerm. =        fil. ate.) wUhu  alter la-paths  sem
deal a ad prwo-da a listed raP at -di."sel lIflei. Pea Moom-
S CSWTIU    CAPITA - MmmI esme-optle, et amesL.i Mont   (tat                          Leat porpoe,m wham hompitol. ftmledeM   palapiprtheies
asd ligltL. patreia. memeem Lao ad hpdr-. mmmler adf SmetheMtl al-                    aod rure  IapLteIe. lead Me creve   epti   dmie!a    ta
trietap) Ia ktlesgse  at mee a.m.1tset par eeptem, 1960. 1918. aed 1979               teatesa. ipielt1lead  -alsee   isL-ded alp ndr eetal.
date.                                                                               sij.rLtsim-Tote! ambar ml  fselalaa tenw disaigma
nn  'n   a  vTAL rrAflTtrne
Toa   a-,j.vm  ltd-tar ataaemde) - As at July it 1950, 1926. ad 1100        91601
date,                                                                             hare   Slam- et1 -maehal tar        a   ""hed- oed.  Mb.  ad  eed
Dim  pomlol   gMeretet at tat     - SaLleof .,.hem to teisl popalt1latosmehl  mai. e  at=    t elidl                                    Sea 1Mr  m   mtet
dita 1tdelatlem  of bt e_   y efttt eqarehllt  mt o datea  theft aile  maIm. A haai Ger ledmer my Wi aW Me ha Said"  he
1 o.srea 0teD  190, -ad 1950 date                                           the eoaId Em. aexetetleel P-Pa-.
teM   altemh  sma ad an ad  hlmmi  -oat4ty eA fertility ree.                      ha1ilame. repepatevaip. SallMe ealma. me-peceelamt ettetewee ad
Pr"etlam p-oreeetlee. f-    taLity remo rapri   ml three ile-L seas-              a-ccpimdl Part..
lau  Ila aopwctmsp et bIrth Lareo-ag with       ty  par -epi"e lema             ke   mIeerrt  ae A               dailaW) - aL. mabls. ad tral-
aetera far  nlerity Ieee dam ba  them   eemsam   deelfim-I.,                     a  e.ta, atlas  od rave dallteg  re-pectlaly.
f-ertlity scerdim  aM lw.a tao  ad peel testy ple-fta pavmu.
lash asaty em thee- -at d mee tem aim aftaaLetieeo at   tlity                  mumiATl
ad fertility treed  faa prejectlee, paras.                                       Sdlated lWotolla-  beta
Statlamer pepaettai  - to  a itetiar  pape.latom  dua  La a ireah eis-               cram    het-totei-. ae ad tate - Grmal total. aE.  ad  emale,
the bireb rea  Ia pea-e th doet Verb-. ad aim the cam etauter  ti-                   Iseis e eimS- at the pety lead a peoceategeeo .1 asportia
ala cltamit. ihia Ia ecia  sIp after  etility tea  dncilme em                        prIarly whe-ema papalet1loe  am-11p  otwimaba hitmo "W h-li
tha replamamt leve at aLt at raprdwaim ream, flea ash imeretl,                      rar e ht edjemo  ta  dittaraet IsW.h of pelaty aftstile  1ev
et ma aelee   itmit asetl. The  -rei-r  pasaclatt   tice ae                          c-ntriem with -laeoal admasis ewanolae, myf  -.ss 100 Moc
satIated a the hato ml the prejered ehe-m-irlaiee  at the  opeletta                 seta ma paple Mer helm. or shael the eflte  atbal an.
hethe LbpatmOG. md the me. at del  la attaei%LIty asam raplec-                     mdraht - tao.aaa   tme-lwee                              a       a
antlevl.edeali -MmreI    - tttr=  feaa l -pprwed aMO d teaets
terMtaler sstlti  to re-ted - The poin ala  iattiec ep pptetle,                pre-Id  oe aaara   vmcatemd. er tanhaw r aewal    eemtawis  tat polde
iee  -ilherMod.                                                                        -mliy C1 12 am1  ermL   at an; awaapa"pi      me        a starllel
Pasplatie  Omaity                                                                       aldd
Per a,t he. -Hid-pan peyopaeete  per oqoer k,ttmae flU  bectwalo 51               Psttal emnelle-4t (sweaet  .1 medrl-  eelm  Imi_ethem
t-Ia er; l90. 1929 ad 1979 data.                                                   L-eL." techeicet. Ead-ast'im  maehrpor.fSth spw alodt pad
Par me. ha  eivata_al tad - .aaPmed" Co ehev  tar ematuitmatl iced                   -tly ma a dpertan  of mtaoaay  etitatimae.
emip;  &90.19f ad 1971 dice.                                                      mi-t-taahe ane-slry   daeday-Ttl tda-te a tuld he
.Poammetla Ama Utratar  Crre.e  -dIdaa (0-14  -es). eeallm-ea  (13-                   praya    meeyta,dvddb                      ma  MbM-  he te.
66 pare) *  d retird (as parce ad mor  epartatee  at mtd-pa-r papa-                  merpedelvl..
int.;  940 190.  d lam deet.                                                  Adl itraavtsC trea - Lftwere, M1 elte .1 am ras ad meIte
Paaete   rtIbs(rrot -PW   tee   J- hm   ee-th Comettte   d                   ...-posvatege at tea  Salt papottia age  11r paead mr
pemepapteta tar 193ceet 19mG-tO.-mad 1910-U.y
telam  tm tinge-m. ian0-3a. as 1970-010.                                         Peaoaea Care (ma tla-d neltl) - Paam   Sar amyri  mmtm
Crdagit  Mate  Car th-emd) - Mmcl live hirha pea th-Mad mC Sd-pen                  rem. emetha lea tbm eltperta:; -mI.do  -6l-ma. beam adl
p  Chaeta  191. 1970. cad 10 daLa.                                               miiea  wiss
Cr  Dah  aa  m  thamd    A-1ma  death  per thame    f ml md-pane            ladi.     lumIm  thaeao  mam elam  - siti tame S emivev  In vi.
papalatle; 1960. 1910. ad I96 date.                                                 Mrsat  mamoa  mte a the-ami at peselettiati abla  a-
Cram 1--ea, mate - Mesa  aere.  ot daghtat  a               wil hen he                 lIt-md caaimr he  chuteo ad is yea  Ala remietameis at Tedll
be meal rapvdective parted It S  aswrlse            sa-as, zem-apaitfl ta-           Mo. Ma Ua etfect; date In  inst pare my mei he cloveri. miss
thy" roetai; .-amll  tiv-yar earea   eSte  t 1160. 1910. ad 1960.                   Mat comaerhem ebLohilAl 'Ismaim.
Pineal ste  -IAtsaa  ae  fth-ocm.d) - MA-mt -.bmr S  taeo                           I Esva    m  t-.ma-.asTetta)               -  I eaa et In    dco lr e 
tlypehm- mtmm,. (ssa   tare    a) -P.aeata  at rvied                           1. caentria ad he V pare a rosagleee,ia sfV matMema hefmeat.
amame hli-herim  en(1)Al mar) se m  htth-teeril   dlm   m              msm    Ctremltma (sa theesa tmeeti) - 5Mm aIm eanp  ir~-
eUl manSw hele   ma - cam  M.                                                       teteia  t 'ail  poerel Ineamt mapmpm. detteesme a porhedil
pablletlia bated pria17tlpe          'bedm   we!a Ma-  It he samidned
sea a  gpe~~~~~~~~~~yj~~~~                                       tm he IWetit iS t A.papr at2otisem       tnaima a mok.
lidaat11  Predwtlem p- Captte (1969-71-160  - tadas al pat cepilc --In          Clea  cAnt ArteAda  rev CmlIe saTanc - WoeS a the madee ml
padetoa ml all ftad val .Prodneis etetmdam as ad lad ald                         tieto aidt brIm  th  yams. Mnads    m4m em delve-ft Jheoma
leateaarpe bate    -dtie  ea  prImay  adm CI em. maotta                      cad file  mitt..
lateed at a l  1bftare adihlm ad taetai   miteo-te Ce-ig. coftea ad
t Men macldhd).  ftereset ptsttmol  51 ash re-ty 1m haod aMLAM  ocT.
-    etsm  mAma  predme  pr=c  -nlta.; 1961-hI. 1110. ad IWO date.                    T-    .           (t e"  - iste-selly macia P--.a laridimas
Parsesta  ssl  mlmetats(marect mt "es.rmamas -  aWuted tea                     mevda   -odlotmsamp d   a asludlee bee-avI. iedaisfts. ate.,
mar  sqemem  ateatta   .W.,m   aiLec,e le -ut  par ample                        -Scle  papietla te -cl a1 w.  inIlella    to aria ematri" am
my day. Aaiie1blm, aete  tepie  da-maia Pvodetlea. iomem  team                      aot masrblel ISO, 1910 aed tIM  date.
e.swa.. -ad ahse   he atecb. Sat aepyle   -aIde -elmi ted, made.                    PeaLe (metme  - Pmia. IAn teMa pmeartege et teas! SAber  ea.
q etl. ma It teed g-r-etels. ma? tam  tdLtrhtt.   RqaJt-                                  (Poi -rm ) - lmdc leve  he ta.Lg.  -aa Tr. meotims ad
mate ar  etalmed by FAD bees a phymieleticel asmd  In arm   neL-                      hiho=i__ipiem  Sf tteam  tAUr tweet I196. 1970 ald 1960 date.
nip ad hIbeRhemdre   alsec                 aeea  body alike   andteoto  (smast) - LAb   orclav  Ia mImeR. reamwttatis   mafalslma"
ad ma dteerbetlc  at  aeci. as sitmie  LO periat er a-te -l                           ad setveitp. atma aS AP. mereatow n atameL Jeobr teem;
h-Mmehed level; 1961461. 1910 ad t977 date.                                           1940. 1910 adl 196 date.
Per -cit.  -s1i of oratel term  ta  day) - Notate rlt at  pat tepite                Plerflcisesl   macin f-ereat -_teal, ale, ad taleo  - Purtfeipetia, me
am  mesLy of CS ma m  day. ta   aly C- t Ld it delta  -  aba. ma-                   stif-le7 rae-r oeae  maal   l,a     -                 ee fern a
qeireotem tar .l) malrrie  seobltebd by ISDA presid  tee mInim                      .aemmee    totl. mu mad teala papaeiem o et ll ep   Mpepctiveipt
-ll     --m at 60 ira of toete prolt par day aed 20 itrma Sl ala   ad               1960. 1910. ad 1960 dar. Thema  hea aM  ffAl'. petcetipeeta  mt-t
palm P-a.t. at kethe  10 seam  bho.a  be salam  premi. thos  toa-                   travisatim  sec-    atrtm  et the pepalzeti. ad lam. tin traed. A
rda en tea  tSa tam at 1) ivan at tea  pctdl ad 22 tem   at                         f- aetmloee, ec  Itao atteatmte.'
stat pratmi  a eM aveem  tar the acid, Pramdby FM is the Third                    k2!gt     !R!gyT3ephr - MClI. of papelettem  dma IS ad GS ad Mar
W-Id road 3eram; 1961-hI. 1mp0 ad 197 data.                                         amht oeliheti1
Per  elt.stomie epI  teamahl adoml - Protri appyI of tad di-
vis  raeaSim dpleet   m   pr dep; 1961-65. 1910 ad 1977 date.                    iRm10 BY=ilt
Cbti Emm  1-I)MIahmt ttta             d    ""'el dMMh  s   tlmumd La.aaem   tPivt    a  (herb-he seat ad bled) - Woveevd hy ribeotm
anin  1-L  pare,b am- ebtLda Ia tble an Atmp, tar mcat develoinma                 S pareeac. icheat, 20 perctat, paa   M0 P.ecta. ad peeme  Go peroa
ris date dortad Ira Ilf tells; 1v60, 1910 ad 1960 Mae                               m   eahla
LZRita asatMa at treh Camera  - eA-ma  maser a - mr a-t.   Itta realeto             lhe foItn       tmae    ayprecisame am-   or perep le-le,
athtlm;. 1960. 1910 ad 1960 data,                                                 -ad fleal ha imiscred with amaeidmrabte maolls.
.tel   atelt  h.M (nthoaed)1 - dM-et d-ethe of letat  aode  me year               iaeiad Ablelete Pesarrylam lel Daeses-mladml-
tenPar theemad LIve birthm; 1940. 1970 mod 1960 date                             IhesLet poet  aelee-eie  lm                        em   tibmam
Stem o tte rapleetec a omieima -tea.l. wla. e5 reve  - Ma-                  mer Itmell  mdmqve  dIme slam ememale mm-lead aq.he-m. he at
year -pply (heoleda  tameS mara   mCeer aarem  baa msteaLeete                    ft.etied "Iteel Perly                    CMalve  S   a    ssmte -  aMG dan
urea mb M thet Ira seetctd heraotele. apring. ad asaimey -11a) eM                   be   reaiepae             a  leve  hea-thL.d at R-tNW My Celt
paitn  S  ab lef C-eepciv  e pplateieo.  lea Mtta emo a pbils                   P-cemml. tamet CMth  c-uty. Vtm  teaL la daiaed teaw the real
lamea..l.   ..r aeepee Itetd me ar   ehee iO ato    fra a hee- my bm                le-e wfta  edjatl e  USermW  mea at liws A. eels maa
CMead=a  Me hag wiite maabia -ne  Cl tbtr ham.  iU Load sam                                                                                  met--
-1aats erm   mol isl ebo3lth  the bommeelte ma Sada of tel  i-maheid           ad rt        =     54              ?  M& M
dMe boaem ae atP-    diposai epet ot the Amp to rectuma the
taupe urnmade. M
ia   tpmpmtetl aI,a  seveflo - eaed yc ara dIM- p1          l L-L
parat 1a atteir Cami      C apet letl, Uerate dimComelm  Sld
ad mt-ete-ein by atr4-bt  ato ar th. e a S si paWia -ad mea-
VqP"-1-  -        - Fape-leti dialed. by -far aS pamfetlps phyo-                                                ta        simelel  ove, =.swiml
alma, qasif is   -C 5 madlel molselc atI-It,le  immel.                                                          gerhyi   d PrajarMe ipa
IPeram  - PMpLteths Caidaod by  a. bml pethl                                                               by LIU
redoodma,matat   ae, peocatleel         e aed



- 21 -
IToUlT C00AS - 8CUOImIC IUIC*TOE-
Populationi 8I240 (id-1990. thousands)
GNP per capital U381.250 (1910)
Amount                   AAmoal rrrth roat  C ) at o_natat sri. Al
(million gas                APtu l                        FF.lia                              Projeoti
Indicator                 at currsnt prioes  -_--
1g80            1975   1976   1977  1978           1979   19_0   1961             1982   1983   134   135
A!ZXONAI. ACCOU1
Cro-s Do --ti Produ  */             10523            7.0   12.5    6.7    9.9           4.7    6J.    5.6              5.4    6.7    9.1    8.9
Agriculture                         2659           15.5    3.1   -3.9    3.6            4.0   13.0    5.2             3.7    4.2    4.9    4.9
Industry                            2468            6.9   t5.6   19.0   24.9           5.0    9.4    0.0              2.5    6.0    8.1    8.1
Servico                            5376            5.1   16.1    7.6   16.0           5.0    1.4    1.6              3.6    5.7    8.2    0.2
Cou.naption                          a055             9.6   13.3   22.5    5.5           f.l    3.2    1.6              3.9    6.5    76    6*a
Groom Investment                      5t20           15.4   22.4   44.1    9.1            5.4    6.5    t.2             4.4    4.4    7.8    4.4
zprorts of 0N3S                       3434           -6.3   12.6  -15.7   22.9          -1.7   10.9    1.2              5.6    8.9   12.2   11.5
Imports of 0313                       4087           .6a    21.7   26.3   25.2           1.6    5.9   -4.4              0.02   5.8    7.4    7.3
Groma National Swing.                 1574            1.6   18.6  -97.5  -22.1         -19.8  -28.5   10.3             12.9    9.7   17-A   14.7
PRICES
CDP Deflator (1980 - 100)                            54.5   64.8   85.5   90.1          95.I  100.0  106.8            115.6  125.1  154.9  194.4
Exoba. Rate Cussi-                                  214.3  239.0  245.7  225.6         212.7  211.3  266.0            270.0     -       -       -
mar. of CDP at Narket 7rde ()                          *rAvera Ana   Incre  s)
(at aurr ant prio-s) 3                              (at eomnt_t prices)
1960  1970  1975  1980  1985  1990        1960-1970  1970-1975  1975-1900  19810-1S    19t5-1t
CrDsa Dometic Profuct                       100.0  100.0  t00.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       0.0         5.5        7.4        6S          6.0
Agriculture                               43.5  27.2  2J.8  25.0  22.1  19.1             4.2         4.3        2.9         4.2        4.9
Industri (ineluding oil)                  14.1  21.5  21.5  31.3  36.7  39.3            11.5         6.7       12.2         5.1        8.1
Sarvie..                                 42.4  51.3  49.7  43.7  41.2  41.6             9.7         5.7       -1.0         5.6        6.2
Conarption                                  82.9  76.8  80.3  76.5  72.0  75.1             8.5         4.6        9.3         5.6        9.2
Gros Inrvot_mt                               14.6  22.1  22.4  29.6  27.1  22.3           12.7         6.6       17.9         5.0        2.9
Exports of 037S                             37.1  39.9  39.0  32.8  35.6  33.6             5.5         6.4        1.9        7.6         3.0
l ports of G3US                             34.5  37.7  40.7  39.8  52.8  31.1             6.8        9.2        10.8         5.6        6.7
Crone National Saing.                        10.6  t7.0  11.7  14.9  19.9  20.6            7.2         7.2        4.9         5.9        0.7
An  of CDp
1960  1970  1975  1978
PUSLIC FInwAcEf3/
Current Revnzos                           20.0  20.1  19.8  20.6
Current ZEpnditures                       14.6  16.1  16.4  15.2
Surplus (-) or Deficit C-)                  5.4   4.0   3.4   5.4
Capital Expendture                         4.9   7.5   8.4   3.0
Foreign Financing                          0.7   1.4   1.4   0.1
1960-1970   1970-1975  1975-1980   1990-1965  1985-1990
O OMHER X3DICAORS
CNP Crowth RatO                           7.9          5.6        7.4         6.9        8.4
CNP par Capita Growth Rate tO              -            -         2.9         2.3        3.7
e*rgy Conamption Critb Iats  l)- -                                     -         33.9        7.3
ICOR                                      1.7          3.0        3.7         5.2        3.4
Marginal Savnwg note                       0.3         0.4       -0.9         0.3        0.3
Import ElRaticity                         0.9          1.7        1.5         0.5        0.9
a/  At  rket prices.
( Projected years at constant prices.
f/ Central govarnmaet only.
Constoat 1990 pricea.
**Theme Tables are currently being revised and new projections vill be available by July 1933.



-22-                                      ba54
STR0Y COAST - YTNRIAL TEAMTS
Populattona  8,240 (Sid-190  thousands)
OR? per capitt VSI .250 (196O)
AIual growth rate. CS) at conatant 19e0 price
-a.unt             _  ___                            ... _
(million UN                 Actual                       Prelialnery                          Projected
Indicator                  at currant prlsms   ----------                                  ----      - ........ .  ------ .- -    -- ------------
1900            1975   1976   1977  1970           1979   1980   1981            1562   1983   1934   198
1EZTMNAL TRADE
Merchandise Export.                  307             10.7   -6.3  -26.3   22.7          -0.8   23.5    1.2             3.7    9.5   12.5   11.4
Primar                              2508            9.4   -4.2  -28.0   24.2          -4.6   21.8    1.1             3.4    9.4   12.0   IOA
Nsafacturum                         529            34.4  -39.1   15.9   13.3          25.0   31.8    2.0             6.0   10.0   16.0   16.0
PNtrolm                               -              -      -       -       -           -       -      -              -   443.5  117.6   50.A
Ierebandie Import.                  3045            0.3   23.1   41.1   27.8           -3.7    5.9   -7.0            -1J.    5.6    7.4    7.1
Food                                393           -1g t   18.3   77.3   21.1           0.5    9.2    2.5             3.8    4.7    6.4    6.2
Petroleum                           445            -6.9   37.7   11.1    1.9          45.9   32.4  -64.0          -t00.0      -      -       -
Machinery and Equipent             1552            10.9   19.5   67.4   41.1         -16.0    5.1    4.2             4.1    3.9    6.9    5A
Others                              655           -17.3   22.4   27.5   25.0           3.0   -1.5    1.6             4.2    7.4    8.0    8.4
Export Price Index (1979 - 100)        98           51.4   67.5  104.5   91.8          100.0   96.0   87.3            93.3  104.3  116.6  129.0
Import Price Index (1979 - 100)       116           70.9   77.2   86.9   90.1          100.0  116.0  124.4           133.5  144.2  155.0  166.0
Term of Trade lndex (1979 - 100)       85           72.5   87.4  120.3  101.9          100.0   84.5   70.2            69.9   72.3   75.4   78.0
Cepesition or Nleranlme Trade ()                       Averae Annual Ino. (M)
(at aurrant prics)                             (at ontant 1980 pricee)
1965   1970  I975  1980  1985  1990       1965-1970  1970-1975   1975-1980  *981985   *985-1990
Export.                                    100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        6.6         7.9        2.4         7.9        7.6
Prlucry                                   93.0  92.0  91.6  82.6  60.0  40.1             5.7        6.6         1.6        7.6        6.4
Nnoufecturer                               7.0   8.0   8.4  17.4  14.2  17.7            15.2       16.1        12.1       10.1       16.0
Petrolem                                    -      -     -      -   25.8  42.2            -
importr                                    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       9.0         7.2       -0.7         2.6        6.5
Food                 *                    10.0  11.0  12.0  12.9  14.6  13.9             7.4        0.5        8.2         4.8        5.6
Petroleum                                  9.0   9.0  14.0  14.6       -     -           7.5       10.7        0.7          -          -
lachinery an  Equlpent                    30.0  26.0  28.0  32.1  36.8  31.7             6.5        5.3        -6.8        4.9        2.7
Othere                                    51.0  54.0  46.0  40.4  48.6  54.4            10.8       -0.1        0.6         6.1        9.4
Sara of Trade vith                     Sear or Trade witht                       Sare of Trade with
Induetrial Countries (S)               Developing Countries ()                Capital SerpLue Oil Euporters (S)
1965  1970  1975  1979.21              1965  1970  1975  1979                  1965  1970  1975  1979.2
DIRECTION OP TSE
Czport.                             02.4  86.9  70.0  81.4                  13.0  11.1  24.2  11.3                   0.6   0.2   0.0   2.7
PrImry                            84.2  89.9  75.9    -                    11.0   7.9  18.2    -                   0.6   0.2   0.0      -
Manufacture                       50.3  35.2  26.5    -                   49.0  60.7  68.1      -                  0.0   0.0   0.0      -
Imports                             84.7  84.0  71.8  81.3                  14.1  14.3  21.4   6.5                   0.0   0.1   1.3  11.7
j/  Preliainary actual.



-23 -
IVOW  COa  -   -AZAW  OF wuINae.    *L cNmu   An DM
LJuoaue. Um at mzast 3010m)
'lotuamr S.MO (ia-tss           _
C0l! pr capLia lXt,Z50 (19|
iActl                             Poiwieluay                        Ploject.d
Injicatar-
1970  1975  1976  1977  t157               1919  19110  198t             182  t18   1585  1990
UILINKZ OF PABOMMS
(   ~ owte of Coo" and soee.                          57   1507  1998  27    3972               333   38  3489                30   C5   720  t6331
of Vhich: Uguehaua f.o.b.                     97  1239  t15  2391  2616                2119  3Z3   219               33   371   5761  13013
ZaPorts of    _and on                          646  153  2MS   287   344                 3950  55  5595                6S29  7036  9352  17112
of ,huich.. Ug!cg  f.o.b.                     15  1012 *IC6    1562  205                  3   3      30DN             2 S1   3653  480  8934
Wet TS Cfe.                                     34    42   -59   -33   -417              -52      33    3                 4    50    o;   134
CMrZt AeoI De                                        -31  -34  -4°  -390  -785                -1149 -154  -4M               -16 -27 -1_99  -657
PrtIte Direct Zaweetosu_                        31    el    37       3    55              1I9    62   269               371   408   670   29
PL?T.nu (et)                                    50   249   2m7   75   976                 625   40    923              1418  1651  1462  1014
Ofrcm4al                                      34    75    65   15S   750                648    64   334               918  1306  1257  1014
Private                                       15    74   213   567   169                -      340   59               40   345   175  -0.1
Other t:ZtBl                                    .4   _39   -35  -256    45                390   235   330               261   251    t9   225
Chow In beet,.. (i       .  -)                -39    93   -30   -82  -234                 105   8(3   53                126   -75  -155  -84
rUtertiomal l x                                 -      -      -      -     -                    -.866 -1404           -1530 -1455 -1300  -459
of ubhch  CoUl
M            moute Import                        -     -      -      -     -                -  -9    1-.7              -13  *Of.8   0.2   1.5
UmEa CAPI D AMn
Officida Oxaut.                                -     -                   2-              25    30    35                39    42    51    83
comcee.i=Ml Loma.                             32    34                                   27    41    71                 4    42      7  0.1
Dr                                          24    23    37    24    30                 15     n     25               24    l8      3      _
DPW                                         -      -      -      -      _               -      _      _               _      _      _     _
.m ^-                                              1      2      4                      -        -   2                3     3      2  0.08
Other                                       8      9      6    17    33                12    14    44                37    21      2      -
gas-concesslomml Lamf 45   291   342   865   932                                        978   E18  1401              1940  2244  2635  3503
Official epoert Creits                      6      a     21    89    28               101    26   186               821   t179  15W0  2193
*-m                                         3    25    14    37    58                  51    40    T4 77    89   109   146
Other hwltiitera                             1    15      7     11    32               213   1s    92               1t9   1to      4      -
Priate                                      34   231   299   72m   815                798   805  1059               923   866  1023  11I"
3KUl Debt
Deft Ostetanst£g and Disbursed               256   916  1t6T   1962  26T               3502  402  4985               6403  8055  112t 3 t7a0
Official                 t                       378   433   612  1574               233   11t5  1449              227  33  646  11439
Pt.u                                       112   530   TX   1351  1093               1419  2947   352               S6  4321   VW6  5570
uisaraed Debt                                168   560   nT4  1666  1626               1548  182z   272              3181  3N6  3e0  5341
Debt SeWyic
Total Service Pqpoete                         39   132   175   24    415                568   855   928              1044  120t  195  3741
zate t                                      12    56    66   10    171                250   33    379               458   567   814  1251
Papee n s t     gports                       6.7   8.8   6.8  10.4    14                 17    23    27                2r    25    27    23
*vre   natersat lete an low Loma (S)           5.9   8.0  T75   T.T   8.6                 8.1   8.5                     8.2   8.2   8.2   8.t
Offieal                                      4.    7.3   6.9   6.6       -                -     -      -                -     -      -      -
private                                      7.5   8.5   7.6   8.1       -                -     _      _                _     _      _      _
AvCre  U.tgri-ty of now Lam  (yeare)          18.5  12.6  1O.6  11.2   9.8               1l.5   8.0  10.7              11.1  11.1  10.5  11.5
Officima                                    22.5  18.0  16 .   18.7      -                -     -
Print.                                      12.0   8.7   9.0   9.1        -               _     _      _                _     _      _      _
An % of Debt Onteteadlag
at 0mi of Roes Recent
le*- (1979)
Maturtty Strcture of Debt OLtateaiiag
Principal du* witea S la                                                                        51.8
PrLucIpgl d.e within 10 pern                                                                   87.6
t      lutareet St;mcter of Debt Ontetanii
Intevt .t de within fjv* Yer                                                                    26.6
ao   Dlabsrest data for 1918 are eati.te.
et  afra  egio
9arch 1582



ANNEX II
-24-                       Page 1
STATUS OF BAlK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank loans and IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ Billions
Loan or               Fiscal                              (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year  Borrower          Purpose          Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                            7.5
Twenty five  Loans   Fully Disbursed                   415.2
981-IYC       1974    Ivory Coast      Telecom-         17.4              5.2
munications
1177-IVC      1976    BIDI         -  DFC                8.0              1.4
1347-IVC     1977   Ivory Coast       Urban Dev.        30.0              5.4
1348-T-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast     Urban Dev.        14.0              2.5
1484-IVC     1978    Ivory Coast      Water Supply      16.0              1.6
1501-IVC     1978    Ivory Coast       Feeder Roads    29.0               6.7
1575-IVC     1978   Ivory Coast       Rubber II         20.0              0.2
1577-IVC     1978    Ivory Coast      Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0             13.6
1633-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast     Rubber III         7.6              1.2
1663-IVC     1979    Ivory Coast      CCI-Artisans      12.6              9.6
1698-IVC      1979    Ivory Coast     Tourism II        14.2              9.1
1735-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast       Forestry          18.0             10.1
1777-IYC     1980    Ivory Coast      Education LII   24.0               17.4
1827-IVC     1980   Ivory Coast       Rural Dev.         9.4              7.8
1896-IVC     1981    EECI             Power            33.0              30.6
1914-IVC     1981    Ivory Coast      Highway Sctr   100.0               84.5
2048-IVC      1982    Ivory Coast     Urban Dev II      51.0             50.8
2059-IVC      1982   Ivory Coast      Tech. As9t.       16.0             15.8
2130-IVC 1/  1982    Ivory Coast       2nd Water Sp    43.0              43.0
2167-IvC T/   1982    Ivory Coast      Center West      13.0             13.0
2189-IVC      1982    Petroci          Petroleum       101.5             70.5
TOTAL                                  1,025.9    7.5    400.0
of which has been repaid              63.8      -
TOTAL now outstanding                    962.1    7.5
Amount sold                    5.1
of which has been repaid   5.1          0.0     -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA           962.1    7.5
TOTAL UNDISBERSED                        400.0   0.0    400.0
1/  not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 25 -                       Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1983)
(USs '000)
Type of
Year   Obligator                   Business         Loan       Equity    TOTAL
1965   Banque Ivoirienne de        Industrial         -         204.0      204.0
Developpement Industriel   Development Bank
1978   do.                         do.                          219.5   219.5
1977   Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.   Textiles            -         884.7   884.7
1980   Societ'e Ivoirienne        Fertilizers       5,120.0   1,272.0   6,392.0
d'Engrais
1980   MSO                        Flour Mill        2,900.0     406.7   3,306.7
Total Gross Commitments                      8,020.0   2,986.9   11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold or repaid                 -          -          -
TOTAL commitments now held by IFC                   8,020.0   2,986.9   11,006.9



A1E II
- 26 -                         Page 3
C.   Projects in Execution 2/
Loan No. 981     Telecommunications Project: US$25.0 million loan of May 3,
1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project has experienced a four-year slippage due initially to
delays in appointing engineering consultants and subsequently to mansgement
and organizational deficiencies. After the Government awarded the contract
for switching equipment to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount
earmarked under the loan to finance the equipment (Us$7.6 million, including
contingencies) was cancelled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A reorganization
of the Postal and Telecommunications Office took place in the Fall of 1981,
together with the appointment of competent managers. This important
development is expected to result in completion of the project by mid-1983.
Loan No. 1177    BIDI DFC Project: US$8.0 million loan of December 12, 1975;
Effectiveness Date; September 17, 1976; Closing Date;
December 31, 1984.
The availability of less costly funds to BIDI in the past slowed
down the commitment of this line of credit. As the situation has changed
during the last year, however, this loan has now been fully committed.
Loan No. 1347   Urban Development Project: US$44.0 million; Loans and 1348-T
(US$30.0 and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third Window terms
respectiveely) of December 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date:
March 9, 1978; Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The execution of the project is progressing satisfactorily. The
transport, trunk sewer, commmnity facilities, technical assistance, and low-
cost housing components are completed. The upgrading component, which suf-
fered delays caused by administrative and legal procedures, is now proceeding
well, and is expected to be completed by mid-1983.
Loan No. 1484    Secondary Centers Water Supply Project; US$16.0 million loan
of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Physical works have
been completed on schedule, but delays have been experienced in the training



ANNEX II
- 27 -                       Page 4
Loan No. 1501    Feeder Roads and Highway Naintenance Project; US$29.0 million
loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 17,
1978; Closing Date September 30, 1984.
Overall work progress is slower than anticipated, particularly as it
relates to works carried out by the local contractor. Actions taken by R1WA
are expected to speed up implementation of the project, which otherwise is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1575    Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project: US$20.0 million loan of
June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
Following the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand
-Bereby rubber plantations (SOGB), amended legal documents for the project were
submitted for approval by the Executive Directors (RBO-213) and signed on
August 6, 1980. They became effective on September 15, 1980. Project execu-
tion is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1577    Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project US$33.0 million
loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 14, 1979;
Closing Date June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although house
-monnections to the severage system are progressing at a slower rate than
anticipated. Remedial action in this respect is being discussed with the
Government.
Loan No. 1633   SAPH Rubber Project; US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Smallholder rubber
plantings are ahead of schedule, although estate development is lagging, due
to start-up delays.
Loan Bo. 1663   Artisans-, Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project:
US$12.6 million loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date:
November 28, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although commitments
and disbursements are about six months behind schedule because of a slackening
in demand resulting from the overall lower investment activity in the country.
Loan No. 1698    Second Tourism Develoipent Project: US$14.2 million loan of
June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May.9, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Three large hotels
are under construction and nine small hotel sub-projects have been approved.
Over 60% of the loan amount has been committed.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                         Page 5
Loan No. 1735    Forestry Project: US$18.0 million loan of Augast 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The 1980 plantation
program covering 4,000 ha was executed and plantations have been well main-
tained.  Subsequent plantations have been on schedule.  All project-provided
staff have now taken up their appointments.
Loan No. 1777    Third Education Project US$24.0 million loan of December 28,
1979; Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
After initial delays of about one year due to the technical weakness
of some consultant architects and slowness in awarding civil works contracts,
project implementation is improving'and most components are expected to be
successfully completed. A sharp increase in disbursements is expected now
that civil works have begun. The training of local staff and the preparation
of equipment procurement are well underway.
Loan No. 1827    North-East Savannah Rural Development Project; US$9.4 million
loan of May 27, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
Project execution began well, but has not been progressing as
smoothly during the past year, owing to difficulties involved in coordinating
the various actions called for by a number of inatitutions. The applied
research program, however, is proceeding satisfactorily and project progress
is being closely monitored.
Loan No. 1896    First Power Project :USS33.0 million loan of September 11,
1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The studies under the project have been carried out on schedule.
Pbysical works, however, are delayed for about one year, due to the much
longer than expected time required for selection by CIDA and EECI of engineer-
ing consultants for the project (including Bank-financed components) and
subsequent negotiations with the consultants.
Loan No. 1914    Highway Sector Project; US$100.0 million loan of March 19,
1981; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, and the dialogue on
sector policies and issues is proving fruitful. Disbursements, hovever, were
initially slower than projected at the time of appraisal, but are now expected
to pick up considerably.



ANNM[ II
- 29 -                      Page 6
Loan No. 2048    Second Urban Development Project; US$51.0 million loan of
October 9. 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 28, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Delays in finaliz-
ing the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of the Ivory Coast
and SOTRA initially delayed the effectiveness of this loan. Nonetheless,
invitation for tenders and selection of consultants procedures are being
carried out on schedule.
c       Loan No. 2059    Technical Assistance Project; US$16.0 million loan of
December 3, 1981; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is being executed satisfactorily. Ten long-term
advisers have now assumed their responsibilities under the project, and
several short-term advisory missions have taken place, including one to assist
the Government in preparing a master plan for agricultural research. Ten
ministries have benefited from the project, and $3.0 million of the loan has
been committed.
Loan No. 2130 1J Second Water Supply Project; US$43.0 million loan of June 18,
1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
Loan No. 2167 1/ Center-West Agricultural Development Project; US$13.0 million
loan of September 27, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
Loan No. 2189    Petroleum Exploration and Development Project; US$101.5
million loan of June 30, 1982; Effectiveness Date: September
28. 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
f
11 Loan not yet effective.



- 30 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
IVORY COAST
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
SUPPLEKENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
l
"action I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identification                         December 1980
(b)  Agreement with Government on project           October 1981
concept
(c)  Appraisal                                      April/May 1982
(d)  Completion of negotiations                     Narch 1983
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                  September 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   The conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) Effectiveness of the CCCE loan and of the CDC loan for Bettie
and Outgrowers (para 42);
(b) Signature of a modified contract between Government and SAPH to
cover project components (para 43);
(c) Signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Government and
BNDA and of amendments to the contracts between Government, SAPH
and BNDA to include new outgrower programs (para 44);
(d) Establishment of separate revolving fund accounts (para 45); and
(e) Implementation of a pricing system, acceptable to the Bank, for
outgrower rubber (para 48).
2.   Conditions of disbursement.
(a) Establishment of, and initial deposit into, project accounts
(para 45);
(b)  For the Guiglo component:  that the Bank shall have received a
satisfactory appraisal report from the CCCE on the project site,
and that all conditions of disbursement of the cofinanciers'
loans for this component have been met (para 37); and



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c)  For the Research component:  (a) that RRA has been established
and that the contractual arrangements have been made, both
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) that RRA has employed consultants
or rubber experts satisfactory to the Dank; and (c) that all
conditions of disbursement of the cofinanciers' loans for this
component have been met (para 43).



TouI pIeu               GUIGLO                 'z~\IGI
ro ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~8r
t      E         suro            _y ru                   GAGNOA     
RESERVOIR
-6w ~ ~ ~ 3 
- 5*                                                                  GO IRRA I 
f  QGei              ) *                 R ~~~~~~ASSN
\                   \                  pi        )  Son ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pedro
\    H j235rcnd-B"b
GRAND-BEREBY
_   <                tW5~~~~~~~BoubiI6
,abou
8@ -.
MAURITANIA                                           u Guf              o f              Gu in ea
4      A.                                                                   _     _     _     _    _     ___   _
T SENEGAL>)'          M A L I                                                            KILOETERS
GAMB                                                                           0     20    40      60    80      100 120
GUINEA-BISSAS VUIT     A
+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fa  wis b._.~ w_-dh T mDhesti WdoBu* 5 1. .uhuAt/ *' sor Na mnaum d
iVORY   'G                       Fkwm~~~~~~~~~~II Ceudors i smcAs~ lb& Na kdo n51m m &wd   ThI Bw V b w adDlesw   a Natmr.adoonW
SIERRA LEE      ;- JlVOR       IGHANA!"- .                        inwo pCd_ofaft Thx Gea*ama   le d SidhmW aFk,m Corp.mu k d ,
AtIani  LEON).)J COAST (.01                                           Gnp-fn aw*d_rcv
AtIone ic        LIBERIA J    Ab                                         an hob of nayotr wy   dor               o such
Oce on           LIEERIA     Abidi
_Y      Gv/ ofGuinea



IBRD I 6743R
kAFLE     To YOua&    5*o                                        To 8 ondovio          M3 AY 1983
Yamoussoukro                                                         (
DIMEOKRO                     B      uanou             BENGOUROU
Toumodi8L                                                   k / \/GH A N A
Oume                                  A~~~~~~~~~~~~koup6
AGBOVILLE                        Bettie
DIVO
\1                qXA~~~~~nyama              _ABOISSO
_ Grand lahou                        Bassam
IVORY COAST
FOURTH RUBBER PROJECT
®     SAPH Nucleus Estates and Outgrowers
0     SAPH Outgrowers
RRA Estate and Experimental Area
2    SOGB Estate
-       Paved Roads
n  e    a                                        Earth and Gravel Roads                     A
-.-e |Railways                                                       40
International Airports                     N
120                                       ±     Other Airports
Rivers
69    National Capital
0     Prefecture Capitals
0    Other Towns
.avpe,nr                               -e      International Boundaries
50                               40                                30
I~~~~~~1                                                                     -  --






