                         Document of
                      The World Bank


                                                     Report No: 60258-MK




                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                           ON A

              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                            OF
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL IMPLEMENTATION AND INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
                          PROJECT
                         IBRD-48230

              BOARD APPROVAL DATE: 06/01/2006


                          TO THE

          FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                        March 1, 2011
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




FYR Macedonia          Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
LJIIS                  Legal and Judicial Implementation and Institutional Support
                       Project
PIU                    Project Implementation Unit
ISR                    Implementation Status Report




            Regional Vice President:        Philippe Le Houerou
                   Country Director:        Jane Armitage
           Sector Manager / Director:       William Leslie Dorotinsky
                  Task Team Leader:         Klaus Decker
                                        2
 MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF -- LEGAL & JUDICIAL
      IMPLEMENTATION & INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROJECT
                          P089859
                      (Loan 4823 ­MK)


                                  Restructuring Paper


1) The closing date for the Macedonia, Former Yugoslav Republic of, Legal & Judicial
Implementation & Institutional Support Project, (Loan 4823 -MK), P089859 will be
extended from July 31, 2011 until March 31, 2012.

2) The Project has been effective since October 12, 2006, with a loan amount of USD
12.4 million and a disbursement rate of 65%. The commitment rate of undisbursed funds
is at 97%. The project has satisfactory financial performance and all required audits and
reports have been submitted in a timely manner. The procurement plan has been updated
to a satisfactory standard.

3) The latest ISR overall Implementation Progress rating is Moderately Satisfactory.
Progress towards the achievement of the Project Development Objective is Moderately
Satisfactory. The Task Team has assessed that the project development objective will be
achieved by the closing date.

4) The Minister of Finance has requested an extension of the closing date of eight
months to allow for the completion of a number of planned and ongoing activities,
including the construction of the new criminal court in Skopje, a functional analysis of
the Courts, and completion of reforms of administrative legislation.

5) The LJIIS Project had a slow start-up, with lagging disbursements. This was
attributable to two main factors: (1) the unfamiliarity of PIU staff with Bank procedures,
particularly procurement; and (2) delays in staffing and retaining the PIU staff. Although
these issues were overcome in the first two years after effectiveness and the project has
made satisfactory progress, the early delays have led to the necessity of an extension of
the closing date to complete all the activities. The performance of the borrower and the
PIU is satisfactory.

6) It is anticipated that remaining activities will be fully completed in the eight-month
extension period. The Task Team and the Client have agreed on a time-line for the
completion of the activities with the client.

7) No new activities will be initiated during the extension. Planned activities that will be
completed are:

    A. Criminal Court: The construction period of the new Criminal Court in Skopje
        exceeds the current closing date of the Project (July 31, 2011). Due to general
        delays in starting this activity, and unforeseeable delays at the start of the
        construction, including water supply pipelines in the foundations, the
                                             3
        construction was delayed by a total of ten months. The anticipated completion
        date is in January, 2012.

    B. Functional Analysis: To allow for a complete and thorough analysis and final
        report, an extension of the contract for the functional analysis from July 31,
        2011, to December 31, 2011, will provide the firm with sufficient time to
        complete their analysis of the courts and for the Judicial Council to test the
        analysis.

    C. Administrative Legislation Reform: Due to a change in the management of the
        public administration from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Information
        Technology, and the need for the Minister to familiarize him/herself with the
        Bank's procurement rules and the LJIIS project, this activity has encountered
        delays.


8) This will be the first extension of the project.




                                              4
