                         Document of
                      The World Bank


                                                Report No: 67671-MK




                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                           ON A

              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                             OF
THE LEGAL & JUDICIAL IMPLEMENTATION & INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
                           PROJECT
                          IBRD-48230

              BOARD APPROVAL DATE: 06/01/2006


                          TO THE

         FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA


                       MARCH 27, 2012
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EUR              Euro
FYR Macedonia    Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LJIIS            Legal and Judicial Implementation and Institutional Support
PIU              Project Implementation Unit




            Regional Vice President:        Philippe Le Houérou
                   Country Director:        Jane Armitage
           Sector Manager / Director:       William L. Dorotinsky
                  Task Team Leader:         Klaus Decker



                                        2
                                 ANNEX 3:
                         Extension of Closing Date

                                   Restructuring Paper



1.   The closing date for MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF,
LEGAL & JUDICIAL IMPLEMENTATION & INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
PROJECT, [IBRD-48230] will be extended from March 31, 2012 until June 30, 2012.

2.       The proposed extension is needed to contribute to the successful implementation
of the project development objective aimed to improve judicial infrastructure. The
extension period will be used to complete the construction of the Criminal Court building
in Skopje (Basic Court Skopje 1) and to fully utilize the available loan funds. This court
is the largest civil works project under the loan and delivers a significant share of judicial
services in Skopje.

3.      The construction period of the new Criminal Court building exceeds the closing
date of the Project (March 31, 2012). Construction is scheduled to be completed by June
30, 2012. Delays incurred with the construction are mainly due to the following two
reasons: (1) A gap in payments and (2) the delayed signing of a key contract for design
supervision. Both stem from austerity measures put in place government-wide by the
Ministry of Finance. An unusually severe winter added to the delay. During the last
supervision mission (January, 2012) the Task Team facilitated a meeting between the
PIU and the construction company and received assurances from the contractor that they
are able to finalize the court building in time by June 30, 2012.

4.      The proposed extension is needed to allow full disbursement of loan funds for the
construction of the building. The costs of the remaining construction (EUR 5,051,848)
exceed available loan funds for the construction (EUR 1,763,730) and Government funds
will be needed to finalize the building. Given the recent reduction in counterpart funds
for Bank projects by the Government of FYR Macedonia and the lack of an explicit
commitment by the Ministry of Finance to expand Government co-funding from
currently budgeted EUR 1 million to the required estimated amount of EUR 3,288,118
the risk of closing the Project before the completion of the Skopje Criminal Court
building is moderately high.

5.      The construction, although it is the largest civil works project financed under the
loan, is not the only contributing factor towards achieving the development objective.
Therefore, the Task Team has determined that overall the risk to the development
objective is not high. The development objective of the LJIIS Project is to “contribute to
improving judicial efficiency and effectiveness and the business climate in FYR
Macedonia by: (i) enhancing ministerial and judicial capacity to systemically implement

                                              3
the Government’s Judicial Reform Strategy and key laws; and (ii) improving judicial
infrastructure.?

6.      Significant progress has been made in rehabilitating a number of courts - ten
courthouses have been completed. LJIIS Project support for enhancing IT systems in the
courts is also on track to be completed before the Project closes. The vast majority of the
Project’s other activities are already completed.

7.      This will be the fourth restructuring and the second extension of the Project for a
total extension period of 11 months from the original closing date.




                                                    4
