                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR2222



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-48230)



                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 10.0 MILLION
                    (US$ 13.725 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO THE

              FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                                    FOR A

                 LEGAL AND JUDICIAL IMPLEMENTATION
                 AND INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROJECT


                                March 28, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
South East Europe Country Unit (ECCU4)
Europe and Central Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)

            Currency Unit = FYR Macedonian Denars (MKD)
                            1.00 = US$ 0.02
                       US$ 1.00 = MKD 49.30

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABA-CEELI   American Bar Association/Central and Eastern European Law Initiative
ABA-ROLI    American Bar Association/Rule of Law Initiative
ACCMIS      Automated Court Case Management Information System
BEEPS       Business Environment and Enterprise Performance Survey
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBC         Court Budget Council
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
DPL         Development Policy Loan
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMP         Environmental Management Plan
EU          European Union
FYR         Former Yugoslav Republic
GoMK        Government of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
ICR         Implementation and Completion Report
ICT         Information and Communications Technology
ISR         Implementation Status Report
LJIIS       Legal and Judicial Implementation and Institutional Support Project
MOJ         Ministry of Justice
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PDPL        Programmatic Development Policy Loan
PIO         Project Implementation Office
QER         Quality Enhancement Review
ROSC        Reports on Standards and Codes
SAI         State Administrative Inspectorate
SFRY        Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
TA          Technical Assistance
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
VPN         Virtual Private Network

                    Vice President:   Philippe H. LeHouérou
                  Country Director:   Ellen Goldstein
                   Sector Manager:    Roumeen Islam, Acting
              Project Team Leader:    Klaus Decker
                 ICR Team Leader:     Beth Anne Hoffman
                   FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                    LEGAL AND JUDICIAL IMPLEMENTATION AND
                        INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 15
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 34
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Legal & Judicial
                        Macedonia, former                                   Implementation &
Country:                                          Project Name:
                        Yugoslav Republic of                                Institutional Support
                                                                            Project
Project ID:             P089859                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48230
ICR Date:               03/28/2013                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            MACEDONIA
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                        USD 12.40M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 13.04M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 12.03M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Justice - Implementation Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                 Process          Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/28/2005      Effectiveness:            10/12/2006          10/12/2006
                                                                                     10/28/2010
                                                                                     03/01/2011
Appraisal:             05/03/2006      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                     10/17/2011
                                                                                     03/27/2012
Approval:              06/01/2006      Mid-term Review:          07/31/2009          09/09/2009
                                       Closing:                  07/31/2011          06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately         Implementing        Moderately Satisfactory



                                                  i
                           Unsatisfactory            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower
                                                                               Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        2                     3
Law and justice                                                         98                  97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to law and justice                                               14                  15
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                        29                  71
Law reform                                                              14
Legal institutions for a market economy                                 29                  12
Other rule of law                                                       14                  2

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Ellen A. Goldstein                   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:              Roumeen Islam                        Cheryl W. Gray
Project Team Leader:         Klaus Decker                         David S. Bernstein
ICR Team Leader:             Beth Anne Hoffman
ICR Primary Author:          Beth Anne Hoffman




                                                  ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the LJIIS Project is to contribute to improving judicial efficiency and
effectiveness and the business climate in FYR Macedonia by: (i) enhancing ministerial
and judicial capaciy to systematically implement the Government's Judicial Reform
Strategy and key laws; and (ii) improving judicial infrastructure.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                                Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)           Values         Target Years
                  Share of firms that report functioning of the judiciary as a problem for doing
Indicator 1 :
                  business (BEEPS0.
Value
                                            43% (10%                           51% from BEEPs
quantitative or   53% from BEEPs 2005.
                                            decrease)                          2008
Qualitative)
Date achieved     01/01/2006                07/31/2011                         06/05/2012
Comments
                  BEEPs discontinued this question after 2008. A 2010 Life in Transition Survey
(incl. %
                  noted an 18% increase in satisfaction with service delivery in the civil courts.
achievement)
                Share of respondents to court user survey indicating satisfaction with the
Indicator 2 :
                operation of the courts
                                                                               50.8% of the
Value           45.7% of respondents         25% increase in                   respondents
quantitative or "very" or "fairly" satisfied share of                          expressed their
Qualitative)    by results of court visit respondents                          satisfaction with the
                                                                               courts.
Date achieved 11/02/2009                     07/31/2011                        06/30/2012
Comments
                At the end of the project, 50.8 % of respondents expressed their satisfaction with
(incl. %
                the courts, measuring only a 5.1% increase in overall satisfaction.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of days to enforce contracts
Value                                        15% reduction                     370 days (Doing
                509 days (Doing Business
quantitative or                              from 2006                         Business data from
                data from 2005)
Qualitative)                                 baseline                          2011/2)
Date achieved 01/01/2006                     07/31/2011                        11/03/2011
Comments        There was a 27.3% reduction in number of days to enforce contracts, as
(incl. %        measured by Doing Business in 2011. This number remained unchanged in
achievement) 2012.
Indicator 4 : Share of complaints against trustees resolved by Trustees Chamber
Value           0% of complaints             80% of complaints                 3 individual and 1


                                                 iii
quantitative or resolved. Trustees         resolved                           firm complaints
Qualitative)    Chamber established by                                        fhave been resolved
                end 2007                                                      within the legal
                                                                              deadline.
Date achieved 01/01/2006                 07/31/2011                           11/03/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Target met in 2011 and sustained through the end of the project.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Number of courthouse facilities improved.
                                                                             10 courthouse
                                                                             renovations and
Value                                                                        furnishings
                                         10 courthouses
quantitative or 0 courthouses improved                                       completed. The
                                         improved
Qualitative)                                                                 Skopje 1 Criminal
                                                                             Court is under
                                                                             construction.
Date achieved 01/01/2006                 07/31/2011                          08/01/2011
Comments
(incl. %        10 Courthouse renovations completed. New construction (Skopje 1)
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
                Share of inspectors and staff trained on new laws and operating procedures,
Indicator 1 :
                including use of IT.
Value                                       100% of
                0% of inspectors and staff                                     100% of inspectors
(quantitative                               inspectors and
                trained                                                        and staff trained.
or Qualitative)                             staff trained
Date achieved 01/01/2006                    07/31/2011                         03/04/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Share of licensed trustees trained on new Bankruptcy Law and regulations.
Value                                       100% of trustees
                0% of licensed trustees
(quantitative                               trained prior to                   100%
                trained.
or Qualitative)                             receiving licenses.
Date achieved 01/01/2006                    07/31/2011                         09/08/2011
Comments
                After initial training, Ministry of Economy and Trustee Chamber preparing
(incl. %
                training for re-licensing exams as well as continuous training for Trustees.
achievement)
                Number of basic courts with enhanced jurisdiction operating in renovated court
Indicator 3 :
                buildings.
Value                                       At least 7 courts                  11 basic courts with
                0
(quantitative                               are renovated                      enhanced



                                                iv
or Qualitative)                                                                  jurisdiction are
                                                                                 operating in
                                                                                 renovated/newly
                                                                                 furnished buildings.
Date achieved     01/01/2006                 07/31/2011                          11/03/2011
Comments
(incl. %          157% of the original target value is met.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of courts increased in which Court Information System is in use.
Value                                                                        ACCMIS is
(quantitative     0                        At least 7                        functional in all
or Qualitative)                                                              courts
Date achieved     01/01/2006               07/31/2011                        09/08/2011
Comments
                  The automated court system (ACCMIS) is operating in all courts in Macedonia.
(incl. %
                  The end of project target is achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/25/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      1.31
  2     05/22/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               1.70
  3     02/20/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               2.69
  4     12/30/2009       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               4.03
  5     07/14/2010       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               5.20
  6     03/22/2011           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory               8.06
  7     10/02/2011           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory               9.56
  8     11/22/2011           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             10.35
  9     06/24/2012       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             11.26


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Changes in Intermediate
                                                     Indicators 1 due to change in
                                                     indicator source; Change in
 10/28/2010               MS    MS            6.26   Intermediatie Indicator 2 Result
                                                     due to changes in Skopje 1
                                                     Court Construction. Increase to
                                                     disbursement percentage to



                                                   v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     100%.
                                                     Eight month extension to allow
                                                     for completion of planned
 03/01/2011               MS    MS            8.06
                                                     activities, including Skopje 1
                                                     Court construction.
                                                     Reallocation of proceeds to
                                                     finance IT equipment for High
                                                     Administrative Court and
 10/17/2011               S     MS            9.56
                                                     hardware for the State
                                                     Administrative Inspectorate and
                                                     Ministry of Justice.
                                                     Extension to finish construction
 03/27/2012               S     MS           10.98
                                                     of the Skopje 1 Courthouse.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

Nearly 15 years after gaining its independence from the former Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYR
Macedonia) was granted candidate status for accession to the European Union (EU) in
November 2005. At the time of its independence, FYR Macedonia was among the least
developed republics of the former SFRY. In response to its EU candidate status, the
country identified a number of reforms to improve the business climate. Key among these
reforms was a strong emphasis on improving the country’s legal framework and building
capacity to reach and enforce judicial decisions in a timely manner. Beginning in 2005,
these reforms were ultimately supported by a series of Programmatic Development
Policy Loans (PDPLs)1 from the World Bank, and later, this Project.

In 2005, at the time the Project was designed, Macedonia’s judicial system was
characterized as inefficient and opaque. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) noted
that confidence in the legal and judicial system’s ability to enforce property and contract
rights had declined since 20022. The judiciary in particular was seen as one of the more
serious obstacles to improving the investment climate. Furthermore, the justice system
was characterized as unable to adequately protect property, contract, and creditor rights.

The Macedonian Ministry of Justice (MoJ) completed a Strategy for the Reform of the
Judiciary, Public Prosecution, Penitentiary Institutions System, Public Attorney, the Bar
and the Notary in November 2004. The Strategy provided an analysis and framework for
the development of the present Legal and Judicial Implementation and Institutional
Strengthening Project. It presented a diagnosis of the system’s weaknesses that was then
vetted by donors and the public. It also provided a roadmap for improvements and
reforms in the judiciary and a number of related institutions, including the bar association,
prosecutors, the corrections and penitentiary system, and notaries. The Strategy aimed to
strengthen the judiciary’s independence and efficiency through: (i) substantive law
reform addressing the functions of the judicial system; (ii) litigation law reform to
optimize processes and procedures; and (iii) structural and organizational changes in the
judiciary. These objectives of the proposed reforms were to establish a new legal
framework in line with European and international standards, along with a new system of
legally recognized and protected values based on human freedoms and rights and other
principles of democratic society. During the second quarter of 2006, the Government of




1
  Loan Number 4806-MK, Loan 7441-MK, and Loan 7533-MK in the amounts of US$30 million
(equivalent), US$30 million (equivalent) and US$25 million (equivalent), respectively.

2
 Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Project Appraisal Document: Legal and Judicial
Implementation and Institutional Support Project. Report No. 35506-MK, May 10, 2006, pg. 8.



                                                  1
the FYR Macedonia (GoMK) passed a comprehensive package of new and revised
legislation as the first stage of implementing the Strategy. 3

Building on the Strategy, the Project’s development objective, as set out in the PAD, was
to contribute to improving judicial efficiency and effectiveness and the business climate
in FYR Macedonia by: (i) enhancing ministerial and judicial capacity to systematically
implement the Government’s Judicial Reform Strategy and key laws; and (ii) improving
judicial infrastructure.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

In anticipation of the EU accession, GoMK had adopted a comprehensive road map for
justice sector development. The Bank Project was founded on the information and
approach provided in the Strategy. The Strategy mapped key reforms to be taken as well
as donors’ on-going or planned work in the sector. The Legal and Judicial
Implementation and Institutional Support (LJIIS) Project also benefitted from a Country
Economic Memorandum, a Report on Standards and Codes (ROSC), a series of
Development Policy Loans (DPL) supporting justice related aspects, and two background
reports on the justice sector.4

At the time the Project was designed, the LJIIS Project was not specifically included in
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the period 2004-6 (Report No. 26513). Rather,
the CAS concentrated on the promotion of private sector development and job creation,
as well as strengthening the protection of contract, creditor and property rights. The
Project activities proposed in the PAD were selected so as to have synergy with other on-
going Bank projects in the country, including land reform, activities to improve the
business environment and the financial sector. Simultaneously, the Bank’s series of three
DPLs supported a number of actions related to the judiciary and legal reform. Key
actions under the DPL series included the adoption and implementation of a number of


3
  Included in these reforms were the: Law on Civil Procedure (Law on Litigation), the Law on
Enforcement, the General Administrative Procedure Law, the Labor Law, the Audit Law, the Law on
Courts, the Law on Misdemeanors, the Bankruptcy Law and implementing regulations, and the
Administrative Dispute Law. In addition, the Ministry of Justice adopted Court rules of procedure based
on the opinion of the Supreme Court, which created specialized divisions in first instance and enhanced
jurisdiction courts. With the passage of the Law on Misdemeanors, a number of laws needed to be
harmonized – including the Law on Customs, the Law on Profit Tax, the Law on Personal Income Tax, the
Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Safety in Traffic and on Roads, and the Law on Public Order and
Peace. An Administrative Court was adopted, and the Bankruptcy Law was amended to remove the three
(3) case limit on trustees.

4
 The World Bank, Private and Financial Sector Development Unit and the Poverty Reduction and
Economic Management Unit. (June 2005) Improving the Business Climate in Macedonia: A Legal and
Judicial Enforcement Assessment. and Russell-Einhorn, Malcolm and Jacek Chlebny, “Assessment of the
Administrative Justice System in Macedonia – the World Bank Legal and Judicial Enforcement Project.?
(mimeo).



                                                   2
key laws. Included in this menu of laws were, inter alia, the Law on General
Administrative Procedure, the Law on Courts and the Bankruptcy Law.

The LJIIS Project was envisaged to provide a critical commitment of medium-term
support for aspects of the FYR Macedonia’s Judicial Reform Strategy. The Project was
meant to complement the technical assistance and support provided by many of the other
donors in this field. As a result, the Project components alone did not form a holistic
approach to judicial reform, but rather were selected to scale up and provide economies
of scale in areas were other development partners were already active. Chief among these
activities was support for the continued roll out of the USAID-financed Automated Court
Case Management Information System (ACCMIS).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objective of the LJIIS Project as set out in the PAD was to contribute to improving
judicial efficiency and effectiveness and the business climate in FYR Macedonia by: (i)
enhancing ministerial and judicial capacity to systematically implement the Government's
Judicial Reform Strategy and key laws; and (ii) improving judicial infrastructure.

The PAD also stated that achievement of the Project Development Objective was to be
measured by performance indicators, including Government and judicial statistics
supplemented by broad-based surveys (for example, BEEPS), expert assessments
(USAID'S Commercial Law and Institutional Reform Assessments and Judicial Reform
Index), annual European Commission (EC) reviews and others to be developed with the
Government during Project implementation.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

No revisions to the PDO were made during Project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary beneficiaries of the Project include: the Ministry of Justice, the courts of
expanded jurisdiction, the newly created Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, the newly
created Macedonian Bankruptcy Trustee Chamber (attached to the Ministry of Economy),
the State Administrative Inspectorate, and the Judicial Training Center. Other
beneficiaries included the Macedonian business and legal community as well as the
general public.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The original Project components were:



                                           3
1. Ministerial and Judicial Capacity Building (Euro 1.855 million): This component
aimed at strengthening the capacity of key institutions to implement the selected reforms
under the Judicial Reform Strategy. The component had three subcomponents, namely:
   a) Improving the quality of judicial management and the Judiciary (Euro 630,000)
   b) Administrative Inspectorate and the Administrative Dispute Resolution (Euro
       675,000)
   c) Improving Bankruptcy Administration and Ministry of Economy Supervision
       (Euro 550,000).

2. Infrastructure (Euro 7.725 million): Under this component 11 courts were to be
rehabilitated and provided with basic furniture and equipment. The courts that were
selected were the first instance courts of expanded jurisdiction. This selection
complimented USAID’s earlier rehabilitation of the basic first instance courts.

3. Enhancing Judicial Information Technology Systems (Euro 1.92 million). This
component provided for computers, training, software design and support. In addition,
the Supreme Court’s Administrative Office made a specific request for the Bank to
provide assistance for building its capacity to gather information from the Court
Information System and its new budget and financial management software that were
both being developed by USAID.

1.6 Revised Components

There were minor revisions to the Project components during Project implementation.
The first restructuring--which took place in February 2011--extended the closing date due
to delays in Project activities—specifically court construction, contracting the functional
analysis, and changes in management of the public administration for the Administrative
Legislative Reform activities. No changes were made to the actual Project components at
this time.

The second restructuring took place in November 2011 and increased the Bank financing
percentages from 84 percent to 100. Further, it reallocated funds in order to finance ICT
needs for the High Administrative Court (which was established in June 2011), hardware
for the State Administrative Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice, and other
expenditures related to the extension of the Project.

In March 2012, a final restructuring extended the Project for an additional three months
to complete the functional analysis (component 1) and the construction of the Skopje 1
courthouse (component 2). No changes were made to the Project components at this time.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

During implementation of the Project, the Supreme Court Budget Office was moved from
the Supreme Court and placed under the newly created Judicial Council, as prescribed
under the Law on the Amendments to the Judicial Budget (approved August 2008 and


                                            4
entered into force in January 2009). The same law named the President of the Judicial
Council as well as the President of the Budget Office. Some questions were raised
regarding the centralizing of functions such as budget planning, judges’ evaluations, and
training under the Judicial Council. Underlying these critiques, however, seem to be more
fundamental issues related to the independence of the judiciary and the oversight function,
more generally.

In the case of the technical assistance component, some capacity building activities were
dropped due to a lack of Government interest. It was only at the end of the Project, and
after a change in leadership within the Judicial Council, that the Council began to take
fuller advantage of the activities and financing available under the Project.

With respect to the infrastructure component, there were two major changes in the
construction/rehabilitation of court houses in Bitola and Skopje. In the case of the Bitola
court expansion, the proposed changes and construction plans were never approved by
the municipal council. This was due to the selection of a Project site in an area already in
use by a waste water treatment plant and that could not be easily relocated. Subsequently,
the Project had to be scaled back. A portion of the funds destined to build the new
courthouse were used instead to remodel and refurbish the existing building. These
changes financed the updating of the overall facilities, most of which dated back to 1974.
The refurbished courthouse incorporated a counter (intake) system. It has been modified
to allow for access for people with disabilities (e.g., ramps, elevator). The building’s
electrical installations have been replaced, along with windows and doors. New furniture
and equipment was also financed under the Project.

By contrast, the scope of the Skopje 1 court only expanded after Project approval. The
initial target date set for signing the construction contract was June 2008, with an October
2009 completion date. The court feasibility study financed by the Project in 2008
presented two different scenarios for construction and rehabilitation of Skopje 1 and the
Government chose the more costly alternative. By mid-term review (2009) the Bank
asked for a formal confirmation from the Ministry of Economy that the GoMK would be
able to cover the US$1.0 million funding gap between construction costs and Bank
financing. Furthermore, the selection of a larger building plan increased the overall tax
liability for the construction. The estimated tax liabilities were not raised by the GoMK,
and therefore no corresponding costs were incorporated into the original Project costs
during appraisal. By 2009, the Minister of Justice arranged to cover the municipal taxes
for the new building under the state budget; Project construction only began in May 2010,
and its duration was estimated to be 18 months.

The Skopje 1 feasibility study either underestimated or missed the issues related to the
new courthouse site. Not only was the site located on an area of National Cultural
Heritage (see Safeguards discussions below), the building footprint also required moving
an electrical feed. Both of these issues had major cost implications and led to further
delays on an already ambitious activity. As an end result, and despite an additional 18
months granted in Project extensions to complete the construction, the courthouse was
not complete at the end of June 2012. Further complicating the construction process, the



                                             5
austerity measures put in place by the Ministry of Finance led to a gap in payments to the
construction contractor and a delay in signing the design supervision contract.

In mid-2010, and after the construction of the Skopje 1 Courthouse had begun, the
GOMK requested that the Bank eliminate the requirement for counterpart financing and
increase its financing of activities to 100 percent. At the time of its request, the Ministry
of Finance anticipated that counterpart shortfalls would continue due to the pending
economic crisis. This request was reflected in the first Project amendment noted in
Section 1.6 (above). It is important to note that this requirement was eliminated not just
for this particular Project, but all projects in the FYR Macedonia portfolio. In order to
access this additional financing, the Bank requested that the Government identify
activities that could be ultimately cut from the Project. The Bank sent a clear message to
the Government that the elimination of the counterpart financing requirement should not
have a negative effect on the capacity building activities. Ironically, the courts received
an overall budget funding increase in 2010, as their share of total finance rose from 0.4
percent of the total Government budget to 0.8 percent.

The Information Technology component benefitted greatly from the development of a
sector-side ICT strategy for 2007-11 developed with USAID. As a result, there were
comparatively fewer changes to this component during Project implementation. When
wiring the courts for the ACCMIS system, there were issues in connecting between floors
(not contemplated in the bidding documents) which added costs. The Bank originally
financed the costs of internet connectivity for one year through Macedonia Telekom, but
due to issues of price, connectivity and low bandwidth, it was decided that the court
would create its own virtual network. As a result, the Government proposed that the Bank
Project finance the creation of Virtual Private Network (VPN) through a creation of a
separate fiber optic network. This added costs to the Project, as new fiber optic channels
needed to be dug, but it reduced the price of connectivity. It also allowed the ACCMIS
system to operate on a higher bandwidth, as the ACCMIS system had been unable to
properly replicate on the MK-Telekom system. While the VPN was a more sustainable
solution overall, it has added costs to the Project and an extra burden on an already taxed
and small Supreme Court ICT department.

In terms of implementation arrangements, it should be noted that the Project Steering
Committee indicated in the PAD did not function as originally intended. The Steering
Committee met infrequently. This, however, did not ultimately impact the Project
outcomes. Instead, the Project was primarily centered at and implemented by the Ministry
of Justice through the PIO.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

In preparing the Project, the Bank team built on analytical and diagnostic work
undertaken in the areas of the business climate and administrative justice. Furthermore, it


                                                6
built on the prevailing wisdom in judicial reform at the time, namely that sector strategies
developed by the Government signal ownership. The increased independence of the
judiciary created through multiple legal reforms, linked with the Government’s desire for
EU accession led to tangible reforms.

The Quality Enhancement Review (QER) provided useful guidance on narrowing the
scope of the Project to highlight those aspects of the Bank’s specific support to the justice
system. Furthermore, the QER emphasized that the Project should not place
conditionality on the passage of additional laws as a means of managing the external
factors related to reform. Much of the conditionality originally contemplated for this
Project was passed on to the series of DPLs.

The QER team suggested that the effectiveness should be timed to after the formation of
a new Government. Questions were raised as to the effectiveness of the proposal of
having the FYR Macedonia Judicial Reform Council serve as the Project’s Steering
Committee, when the Government had not necessarily supported this idea. In the end, the
PAD notes that the Project would be overseen by a Steering Committee, appointed by a
formal Government decree. The Steering Committee was to be comprised of members of
the Supreme Court, the Judicial Council, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of
Economy.

Shortly before the QER, questions arose regarding the site selection and preparations for
the construction of the Skopje 1 Court. Indeed, for an investment of this size, it appears
that more thorough analysis and preparation needed to be done. At the time of Project
approval, neither the site selection for the Skopje 1 court was finalized, nor were the
plans for the construction of the courthouse fully developed. The construction plan was
finally bid out in 2008, almost three years after Project approval.

Unlike the construction aspects of the Project, the Information Technology component
had a strong technical basis to start from, as USAID had been working with the
Macedonian Judiciary on a case management system since 2002. These early
interventions not only provided a model and infrastructure for the Bank to build on, it
also afforded the Project team cost data to build Project estimates on. Furthermore, the
USAID project led the introduction of court technology into the courts – a process that
can take many iterations and also needs a cultural shift. The investments the project made
by USAID in terms of human resources and inputs greatly reduced the need for large
scale investments or sweeping changes by the Bank Project.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

At the beginning of the Project, there were difficulties in staffing the Project
Implementation Office (PIO). High turnover continued well into 2009; this had a
negative impact on all Project activities, but particularly the Ministerial and Judicial
Capacity Building component (component 1).



                                                7
A few issues arose during the mid-term review, but none required major restructuring.
The Project faced a number of implementation issues – some of which have already been
discussed above. The Bank ultimately agreed to drop the counterpart financing
requirement in 2010, with the understanding that the Judiciary could not disregard the
capacity building activities contemplated under Component 1 and solely focus on court
construction.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Considering the importance of FYR Macedonia’s efforts toward EU accession, a
considerable amount of information and some quantitative data on more general aspects
of the Macedonian judiciary was available to the Project team at the time of Project
design. This allowed the Project team to maximize its monitoring and evaluation through
the use of independent and quantifiable data that was produced in regular intervals. The
data was then used as proxy for concrete results with the reforms and activities planned
under the Project. Nevertheless, the Project’s dependence on externally produced
indicators led to hiccups in monitoring (described below) and also may have reduced the
Bank’s ability to hold a more specific dialogue on Project results, the need for capacity
building and impact.

The Project used the EBRD-World Bank Business Environment and Enterprise
Performance Survey (BEEPS) as a main source of Project indicators. While the data was
collected and reported in regular intervals, the criteria for both the Bank-sponsored
BEEPS survey and Doing Business changed over the lifetime of the Project. As these
indicators have been collected independently of the Project, the changes were outside the
scope of the Project’s control. As a result, these Project indicators at the end of the
Project are more of a general benchmark than a clear indicator of Project success/failure.

As for Intermediate Results Indicator # 1 – the American Bar Association Rule of Law
Initiative’s (ABA-ROLI) Judicial Reform Index Facts 2,15, and 17 on judicial selection
and appointment- the last time this indicator was measured was in 2006. The indicator
was discontinued when ABA-ROLI closed their FYR Macedonia program. The fact that
this indicator could no longer be measured was only noted in the Project ISR in 2009.

Similarly, the Intermediate Outcome Indicator that measured the time to dispose of a
commercial case was also dropped in 2009, and a new indicator was introduced to better
measure the effectiveness of component 3. This indicator measured the use of the
enhanced case management and court information system implemented with Project
financing.

As for Project-specific indicators, Project Development Indicator #2, the share of
respondents to court user survey indicating satisfaction with the operation of the courts,
was not formally measured until a user survey was carried out in 2009 for the justice
system. No baseline survey was ever carried out; the survey carried out (in 2009) was
proposed in its place. The user survey was repeated at the end of the Project in mid-2012.
The later iteration of the user survey suffered some alterations to the criteria and the



                                            8
questions asked. Therefore, it is difficult to make clear comparisons between the survey
carried out in 2009 and in 2012.

Similarly, a functional analysis of court cases was carried out near the end of Project
implementation. One of the key objectives of the functional analysis was to design a
methodology to be used in the calculation of costs per case. Due to many delays on the
Government side, the functional analysis was only completed in early 2012. The Court
Budget Council (CBC) requested that the courts prepare an annual plan for court
performance in June 2012. This annual plan was to contain a projection of ongoing cases
for the subsequent year. Based on these projections, the CBC was to analyze the data
presented and for use in their future budget requests. 2013 will mark the first draft court
budget sent to the Ministry of Finance that is based using the model of calculation of the
court case price cost.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

At the Project outset, the LJIIS Project was not expected to have any significant or
irreversible environmental impacts. The Project was classified as a Category “B? project
due to the court infrastructure component. An Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
was developed by the Ministry of Justice and a draft was provided to the affected
community and NGOs prior to its implementation. The EMP focused on 12 existing
facilities where court rehabilitation and court construction were to take place throughout
FRY Macedonia.

No land acquisition was anticipated as all the sites for new construction or expansion
belonged to the Government. Perhaps because of this, the EMP was optimistic and silent
on the potential processes and issues related to the actual Project sites, despite the fact
that the locations were predominantly in urban areas. By Macedonian law, any new
construction or expansion of existing buildings must be included in the municipality’s
urban plan. As noted earlier, in the case of the proposed Bitola court expansion, the
Project-financed proposal was never approved as part of the municipality’s urban plan,
and the overall infrastructure activity was subsequently scaled back.

During the municipal review process for the Skopje 1 building, and well into Project
implementation, it was noted that the Skopje court site was an area of historical and
cultural importance. Delays were incurred as the Project team worked to have a
monument to World War II resistance removed and re-sited near the construction area.
Furthermore, an electrical transformer station serving the entire court complex also
needed to be moved prior to initiation of construction. Altogether, these delays added an
additional time to the construction timetable.

During the reconstruction of the Kocani basic court, a potential resettlement issue was
noted in the construction of a planned perimeter fence. This fence would have run into
three structures located on or near the court property. The MoJ and the local authorities
addressed the resettlement issue through the development of a detailed municipal plan



                                                9
which would call for their ultimate removal. The Project did not finance this municipal
plan; it was developed and implemented by the Government authorities. During the
construction of the perimeter fence, access was given to the inhabitants of structures until
the municipal plan was complete.

In terms of fiduciary controls, the Project has consistently maintained a clean and
transparent accounting for Project activities and funds. Throughout Project
implementation, there has been no qualified opinion on the use of Project funds.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The largest area of concern for the post-completion phase of the Project is the incomplete
construction of the Skopje 1 courthouse. Despite the Bank’s best efforts to expedite
construction over the prior year, the building was not completed at the time of Project
closing. The Government extended the contract until September 30, 2012; the additional
Euro 3.0 million estimated to complete the contract was to be paid out of the state (MoJ)
budget. It should be noted that in July 2012, the Bank Country Manager sent a letter to
the Ministry of Finance raising the issue that a number of invoices eligible for Bank
financing had yet to be paid. The total amount of these invoices was approximately Euro
1.0 million.

Plans to furnish the Skopje 1 court – using World Bank financing—were stopped due to
delays in the overall construction. Due to the delays in finalization of the construction
and challenges with counterpart funding, the bidding documents to equip the courts with
furniture and appropriate ICT equipment for Skopje 1 were developed and finalized but
not put out for bid during the Project. There were no funds allocated for their purchase in
the MoJ’s budget in 2012. The MoJ is still exploring possibilities of financing this
activity with other means of financing (grants, credits etc.).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

As noted previously, the Project initially was not contemplated in the first Bank Country
Assistance Strategy for the years 2004-6. At the time the Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) was developed, the Project’s objectives played a more prominent role (Report
54928-MK, September 20, 2010). The Project fit squarely within the CPS’s discussion of
improvements to the business environment and overall competitiveness.

The original Project objectives have largely been met, and six years after Project design
remain relevant. The Project design was flexible and broad enough to incorporate a
number of actors within the justice sector. In some instances, the Project may have been



                                                10
too flexible with its financing (e.g., the purchase of equipment for the High
Administrative Court), which was not included in the original Project design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The Project’s development objective has been largely met. Above and beyond the issues
related to the Skopje 1 courthouse, it must be said that much additional effort needs to be
placed in modernizing and improving the court’s human resource management system.
Human resources planning needs to be based on whole court functions, without prejudice
over one particular function. The current ban on hiring court staff (i.e., staff other than
judges) can and will negatively impact the judges’ performance in the near to mid-term.
Considering that greater workloads will be placed on the same staff due to the country’s
adoption of e-process serving and audio/visual recording of court sessions – this
rationalization of staff, the standardization and unification of job profiles and extensive
training will be needed, in addition to a real increase in the number of staff, generally.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Measuring the efficiency of this Project is difficult, as there was little economic/financial
data that was presented in the PAD. Overall indicators, couched in more general terms
were presented, but the overall economic impact of these reforms have been affected by a
number of exogenous factors, the most important of which has been the economic crisis
that began in 2010.

In terms of cost-efficiency, the Project was most cost-efficient in providing ICT support
to the judiciary (component 3) as well as support to the State Administrative Inspectorate
and Bankruptcy Trustees. The Project was much less efficient in delivering technical
assistance to the Judicial Council and in providing infrastructure.

The relative success of the provision of ICT solutions to the courts in general, as well as
State Administrative Inspectorate, was due to the fact that the Ministry of Justice had
been working closely with USAID on the development of an ICT solution for case
management. A specific ICT strategy was developed for 2007-11 and proxy costs were
available to the Bank team to develop reasonable estimates. As a result, the investments
made toward equipping the courts, networking them and engineering a technological
platform for case management were well targeted, and the potential pitfalls were
identified and resolved. Similarly, the SAI’s small size and procedural system lent itself
readily to an ICT solution. The SAI case management system has ultimately led to a
drastic reduction in overall time resolving disputes, as well as a reduction in certain
overhead costs (e.g., postage for official business).

As noted above, the less successful elements of the Project were those that involved
technical assistance activities aimed to build capacity. The Judicial Council showed little


                                                11
interest in the technical assistance component and its activities for the first years of the
Project. As a result, related disbursements were low. It was only at the end of the Project,
and under new leadership, that the Judicial Council began to show more interest in
implementing the activities.

With regards to the infrastructure component--the Project’s largest component in
financial terms--the delays and complexity added during Project implementation detract
from the relative success of the remodeling and refurbishing of the other eight courts of
expanded jurisdiction. Prior to the beginning of the current economic crisis in 2010, the
construction of Skopje 1 was already over budget. The economic crisis, numerous
construction delays, and the fact that the Project at appraisal did not build in specific time
and cost contingencies have jeopardized the outcome and sustainability of the Project as a
whole.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating:

The overall outcome rating for this Project is Moderately Satisfactory. The Project was
relevant at the time of preparation and (overall) implementation. It did achieve all/most of
its development indicators. The largest stumbling block for the Project, however, were
the risks posed due to the construction of the Skopje 1 court. Construction delays and
non-payment of invoices by the GoMK related to the country-wide austerity measures
detracted from dialogue on the need for continued technical assistance and capacity
building. As the stress has been largely on completing the court–little dialogue has been
made with respect to longer term capital investment planning to sustain the activities
financed by the Project, particularly in the area of information technology.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project did not have a specific poverty or gender strategy inherent in its design.
Moreover, the financial accessibility of the courts by the user was not addressed by the
Project. One anomaly arose in the analysis between the 2009 and 2012 court user survey.
In the final user survey 20.6 percent of those surveyed felt that court costs were high; this
represented a decrease in the findings of the 2009 survey. 5 While the decrease (1.8
percent) is well within the standard margin of error, it is interesting to see that not more
users did cite a high cost in going to court as a result of the protracted economic crisis
and its impact on disposable incomes.

More importantly, however, was the development in the view of the ethnic minorities at
the end of the Project. In 2012, the court user survey noted that ethnic Albanians were


5
    Ibid, page 37.




                                               12
17% more likely than ethnic Macedonians to believe that trials are never impartial or fair.
This represented a 7 percent increase from the first user survey.6

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The Project contributed greatly to the greater professionalization of the Macedonian
judiciary, insofar as it provided the tools for more skilled or technical decision-making
within the courts, both on matters of justice, as well as resource use. The modest size of
the Project has allowed for some progress to be made in terms of institutional
strengthening. The establishment of the Judicial Academy during Project implementation
was a positive contribution in terms of institutional change and strengthening.

There is great acknowledgement within FYR Macedonia –though oftentimes
begrudgingly- that the current performance measurements for judges and courts alike are
now the norm in FYR Macedonia. The courts now rely on data generated by the case
management system, which ultimately provides greater transparency and predictability
for the public and court users.

At the same time, the Project’s successes have also led to the uncovering of many more
fundamental problems within the sector – such as the lack of capital planning for ICT
issues as well as the court infrastructure. Furthermore, many judges and lawyers were
quick to point out that while the judges are now being held accountable for their work,
the Judicial Council’s has emphasized speed in clearing dockets over the quality of the
judgment. A similar complaint was that the existing system does not capture case
complexity as part of its measures or evaluations.

One of the more salient problems apparent within the Macedonian courts is the fact that
court presidents face great pressures to be more productive in disposing of cases, while
they face inadequate operating budgets and hiring rigidities and freezes. The hiring
freezes on key court staff (administrators, accountants, ICT personnel) jeopardize the
court’s functioning as these personnel are now integral components of the judicial
process. They are responsible for key portions of the ACCMIS system and furthermore
are responsible for providing inputs to the Judicial Council.

Despite a high level of centralization and control over performance-related issues, the
decentralization of procurement and human resources activities leads to some disconnects
within the system, and leads to potential issues of conflict of interest and even corruption.
The Project’s ICT purchases for the ACCMIS system led to economies of scale the
Project and more robust staffing strategies could create economies of scale and smoother
operation within the courts.



6
  Institute for Political Research-Skopje, Court User Survey (Comparative Analysis 2009-2012), June 2012,
p. 38.



                                                   13
The impending economic crisis has, indeed, jeopardized some of the progress made. This
Project has served to highlight that a much more robust and sustained effort is still
needed to address systemic issues within the judiciary. The Justice sector is in need of
more robust and holistic planning capacity. The timeframe of the Justice Sector Strategy
has expired, and no new strategy has emerged. Similarly, the Strategic Plan for the courts’
ICT department has not been developed or funded.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The World Bank Project was implemented during a period of rapid reform, realignment
and expansion in justice sector institutions. Much of this change had a positive and
complementary impact on the Bank’s Project. Nevertheless, such massive change
necessitates proper management as well as sufficient time to consolidate the reforms.

During the course of Project implementation, and under the auspices of the USAID
project, the Macedonian courts have begun a process of opening and transparency. Court
presidents have been given the responsibility of court spokespersons. They have received
training in dealing with the media, and brochures and information have been provided for
dissemination to the public. In addition, each court now has its own webpage that
provides information to the public on court cases and court activities. Judgments are
published on the web and can be consulted by the public when finalized. Some court
websites provide information to the general public on the court’s work. Nevertheless, it
was noted that the information provided on courts websites was not always systematic or
user-friendly. There was little systematic indexing of decisions released.

Over time, the continued openness of the courts is likely to lead to more positive outlooks
and greater predictability. In order to achieve this milestone, the courts need to analyze
more closely what the public and stakeholders would like to see and know about the
courts. Furthermore, the courts need to think more strategically about their overall
messages and the best ways to convey them in order to improve the public’s perception
of the judiciary.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

At the end of the Project, a user survey was carried out as a follow-up to a 2009 user
survey. The follow-up survey loosely used the same criteria, and provides a comparison
between the Project’s mid-point and end. The final user survey noted that the country as a
whole remained committed to judicial reform. Overall awareness of the courts and their
functions had grown over the course of the Project. There was a marginal increase in the
overall confidence in the judicial system, though the difference appeared more marked
between confidence levels of the general public and the ethnic communities. The latter of
which- particularly the Albanian communities—were more likely to cite the system as
being unfair and costly.

The overall cost of the judicial proceedings was cited as one of the system’s weaknesses
at the time of Project design. Though costs were not specifically targeted as part of the


                                            14
Project, a perceived high cost of justice negatively impacts potential court users. This
perception remained throughout the Project, despite the fact that a system of proportional
court fees was put into place in 2009.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:

Substantial. There are a number of real risks to the Project’s development outcome.
These risks include financial, material, human resources and capacity. Each of these risks
is spelled out below.

The country’s overall economic downturn, coupled with the intense focus on completing
Skopje 1 has taken away from other necessary and important capital improvement
planning and financing. The fact that the largest portion of the courts’ budget goes to
salaries, and comparatively little is allocated to capital investment and operating costs
jeopardizes many of the reforms and advances made under the Project. The delays
incurred in completing the construction of the Skopje 1 building has ultimately meant
that the Government must now finance on its own an estimated Euro 3.0 million to
complete the building; in 2009, this financing gap was estimated at only Euro 1.0 million.
There is a very real risk that even if this court is completed in 2013 that it will sit empty
for quite some time (a period of months) without furniture.

While this was not a specific outcome of the Project, the impact of individual courts
carrying debts within their own locales has a potential for grave corruption and
miscarriage of justice within the system. Currently, the Macedonian judiciary does not
have a centralized purchasing unit for the procurement of recurrent costs such as printer
toner, paper, and computer service. Due to very tight provincial and municipal budgets
and cumbersome procurement procedures, there is a potential for individual courts to
carry debts with creditors in their locale. Some courts reported having daily contact with
their debtors. This not only takes away from time that could be used more productively in
the court’s business, it also jeopardizes the judiciary’s independence and integrity.

There are significant human resources and capacity risks to the Project’s development
outcome. The Project has been most successful at providing the needed tools and inputs
for the judiciary to improve its functioning. As the GoMK has placed focus primarily on
judges for the delivery of key results, the staffing of other key actors – such as court
administrators and clerks of court, ICT professionals, and financial officers—are being
overlooked. Complicated hiring procedures and hiring freezes for non-judges put at risk
the capacity and court management model that the Bank Project helped to finance.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating:


                                              15
The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry was moderately unsatisfactory.
The team built its program on the Government’s own Strategy for the Judiciary. As a
result of the QER review, the Bank team sharpened the focus of the Project activities.
Furthermore, the Bank team worked with other donors to ensure that any Bank-financed
activities fit within the Strategy and were complementary to those of the other donors.
The Bank leveraged its Monitoring and Evaluation activities by using existing
methodologies and data stores (e.g., Doing Business, BEEPs, ABA-ROLI’s Rule of Law
index) which were considered cutting edge indicators at the time of Project design.

The Project could have had a much higher rating had there been more concrete plans for
the construction generally, and the Skopje 1 courthouse specifically. The original Project
procurement plan set 2009 as the date the Skopje 1 construction was to be completed.
Furthermore, as the Government selected a more costly option for the construction of the
Skopje 1 courthouse, the lack of Project contingency funds in the original Project designs,
coupled with price escalations meant that tough decisions needed to be taken as to what
would be financed under the Project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating:

Moderately Unsatisfactory. During the early implementation of the Project, the Bank
team struggled due to the poor functioning of the Project Implementation Office. The
issue was flagged with Bank management, and the Ministry of Justice ultimately
responded. Once the PIO was adequately staffed, the Bank team began holding
videoconferences in order to resolve issues and move ahead with the Project activities
more quickly.

Closer supervision by the Bank team on the construction of the Skopje1 was urged on a
number of occasions by Bank management, and was most certainly warranted. Issues
such as the location of the World War II Monument the electrical substation and the
water pipes on the site selected for construction were areas that should have been flagged
by the Government—if not detected by the Bank team--during the design phase. These
“chance finds? unfortunately lead to delays and price escalations that escalated into major
problems by Project close.

The Project Mid-Term Review documentation did not discuss the potential problems or
risks--particularly those that related to the construction of Skopje 1-- in much detail. The
Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire was optimistic about the completion of Skopje 1 and
relatively optimistic about subsequently financing the remaining Project activities. As a
result, there was no record of serious discussions with GoMK about restructuring Project
components and activities or scaling back. As the Project progressed into 2010, the
general economic crisis as well as delays in construction put further pressures on the
GoMK and the Bank team, and ultimately the Project’s capacity building activities were
dropped and scaled back.



                                                   16
The inclusion of a local Bank Staff member on the Project team–who incidentally had a
legal background-- helped to maintain the pace and pressure on the Government
beginning at the Mid-Term review. His own dedicated interaction with the Project
Implementation Office beginning in December 2009 helped to ensure that major issues
were brought to Project and Bank management’s attention and dealt with in a timely
manner.

As the Project neared completion, the Bank Task Team Leader worked within the
existing Project structures to ensure that Project activities were completed prior to closing.
Despite his best efforts, through the frequent interaction of local staff and frequent
missions to Skopje, the construction was not completed at the time of the Project close.
The non-payment of construction invoices by GoMK in the final months of the Project-
due to a lack of fiscal space in the Government’s overall budget-made a difficult position
intractable. The delays made within the Judicial Council in the completion of the
functional analysis meant that the Bank-financed activity was only completed and
approved for internal use at the end of the Project. Even with the interventions of the
Country Manager, the scope of the Project had been cemented during the Mid-Term
Review, meaning that the Bank Team had little room within the Project to maneuver
better outcomes.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating:
Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Bank missed opportunities in deepening the dialogue
with the GoMK on judicial reform on a number of occasions. The reliance on externally
produced indicators during Project design reflected the most advanced thinking on justice
sector performance at that point. The fact that the Bank team did not insist on
complementary indicators—for instance, the baseline survey of court users--meant that at
the end of the Project it was difficult to measure the Project’s success or failure.

Similarly, the Project’s Mid-Term review was largely a tacit approval of the Project
activities already underway. The Bank team missed an opportunity to discuss and
document difficult discussions about major slippage in the original construction timetable
and cost overruns in the construction of Skopje 1, the biggest and most complex Project
activity. The Bank could have used the Mid-Term Review as an opportunity to leverage
the GoMK’s enthusiasm of court construction to build a greater dialogue around overall
capacity building for areas such as capital investment, budgeting and human resources.
The plan set in motion during the Mid-Term Review meant that the vast majority of Bank
resources would remain focused on ensuring the completion of the Skopje 1 courthouse
by Project close. This plan and the Mid-Term Review’s optimism proved to be unrealistic.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating:
The overall rating for the Government Performance was moderately satisfactory. The
Project started with significant Government commitment in the form of a fully fledged
sector strategy that identified key priorities for reform within the justice sector. The


                                             17
strategy was an extremely important input in helping develop the Bank Project. Despite a
rocky start, the Ministry of Justice’s commitment to justice reform and the Bank Project
was strong throughout the Project. The second Minister of Justice was particularly
dedicated to seeing the Project become a success.

During the course of the Project, the Government created or implemented 10 justice
sector institutions, and enacted sweeping changes in the country’s legislation. Given the
breadth and the complexity of the changes introduced, the Government made admirable
progress toward consolidating the judiciary as a whole, and providing it with tools (such
as the ACCMIS system) to improve its functioning. Judges and court staff appreciated
and accepted the case management system as an important tool in their work; however,
some disagreed with the reporting and analyses that were made at the Judicial Council
regarding the overall efficiency of the courts themselves.

On paper, the court efficiency criteria captured by the ACCMIS system are transparent
and straightforward. Some judges cited the fact that speed should not be the only criterion
for measuring judicial performance. The World Bank Group’s research in this area
supports the judges’ claim. At the same time, the issue is common throughout the region
and the focus on efficiency is often a result of the fact that it is easier to measure than
quality. As the ACCMIS system reflects the current law, and has been accepted as a tool
for measuring court performance, perhaps a second step or tool to be developed in the
near future is one that also incorporates the overall complexity of a case or the level to
which the existing laws and precedents are applied to a case.

At the end of the Project, fiscal pressures due to the larger poor economic climate led to
Government-wide budget pressures that delayed payments and affected overall
implementation. The Bank sent multiple notices to the Ministry of Finance about the
GoMK’s non-payment of Project invoices (with Bank funds). These issues were
ultimately resolved, but only after lengthy delays.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:

The overall rating for the Implementing Agency Performance was moderately
satisfactory. At the outset of the Project there were delays in staffing the Project
Implementation Unit, some of which is to be expected in a small country with a large
donor presence. Turnover in the Project Implementation Office staff was a constant
problem for the first three years of Project implementation. Changes in staffing for
Component 1 in particular led to disruptions in dialogues necessary to help build
consensus around some of the Project’s proposed capacity building activities.

In areas where there was considerable Government ownership-such as information
technology and court construction—the PIO’s performance was generally much better.
As a result, the Project largely met its Project development objective. The economic
crisis, however, loomed large in Project implementation. The Government-wide ban on
signing new contracts in 2012 led to delays in the signing of critical contracts and issuing
payments.


                                            18
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating:

Moderately Satisfactory. The Government was left with a number of incomplete
activities at the end of the Project, above and beyond the status of the Skopje 1
courthouse. There were many missed opportunities for improved dialogue on capacity
building issues within the Judiciary in particular, despite the efforts of the PIO to keep
Project activities moving forward. For the first years of the Project, the GoMK’s focus
was on court construction, thereby eclipsing capacity building activities. Opportunities
were missed in terms of building capacity for the courts to better plan and utilize their
budgets. Ultimately, some of this capacity building effort could have been focused on
promoting greater sustainability of the courts and their operation.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

One clear lesson that has emerged generally from the World Bank’s ICRs on justice
sector projects is that these types of investments are often ill-suited for the time period of
a single investment loan. It should be no surprise, then, that the Project was extended
from its original four year window to six years. The Project’s heavy emphasis on
infrastructure and the renovation of courts in particular necessarily led to delays in
implementation, and two Project extensions, totaling 18 months. The addition of many
new justice sector institutions and activities by the GoMK complicated Project
implementation.

The infrastructure activity took the lion’s share of the Bank financing as well as
supervision efforts. If infrastructure is seen as a precursor or the first sequence in
reforming the judiciary, then a secondary or equally important reform would be to
building the capacity – technical, human and planning capacities of the judiciary to
maintain and consolidate the achievements made to date. While the Project had built in
this balance into its Project design, the overall implementation of these activities was
uneven.

Unfortunately, efforts to increase the planning capacity came late in the Project, when it
should have been addressed as an on-going concern from Project effectiveness. While it
is important to create better physical working conditions for court personnel and court
users, without the proper planning or staffing, the overall impact of these changes on the
court’s total performance can and will only be limited.

The national judicial training academy has made important advances in improving the
overall capacity of the judges, prosecutors and supporting staff at a time of rapid change
in the country’s legal framework. Nevertheless, it must be said with the rapidly evolving
legal framework, consolidation of this learning – and the reforms will take more time
than the timeframe of the Project, and is subject to reversals.




                                             19
At the outset the Project team relied on externally produced indicators (Doing Business,
ABA-ROLI, EBRD) to measure Project success. While this was both a shrewd decision,
given the overall expense and expertise needed to properly monitor programs such as
these, it also means that there are fewer results and successes that can quantifiably be
linked to the Project. Changes in the Doing Business indicators, the discontinuation of the
ABA-ROLI judicial selection and appointment indicator during implementation meant
that the Project team needed to rethink and retool the Project indicators at a time when
most of the Project funds were already committed for other activities. Delays in
contracting the user survey and inconsistencies within the survey itself also detract from
an analysis of the Project’s direct impacts at Project completion. Furthermore, with the
main Project development objective being tied to court improvements, greater emphasis
should have been placed on carrying out both the baseline survey of court users, as well
as the functional analysis of the courts at an earlier stage in the Project. The change in
leadership within the Judicial Council led to a better understanding of the usefulness of
the functional analysis and greater ownership of the capacity building activities.

As regards sustainability, there is little evidence that there has been any serious planning
or projecting the needs for the full establishment of Skopje 1. The Government had
committed to financing the completion of the building by September 2012 using its own
funds, but no bidding processes have begun to furnish and equip the new building. Given
FYR Macedonia’s current economic crunch, it is unlikely that the Government will have
the money to pay for this massive capital investment in the near term. Similarly, the lack
of capital investment planning to support and maintain the current ACCMIS system leads
to questions about the viability of this solution in the medium and long-term. Finally,
serious consideration should be given to the medium and long term staffing of the courts,
expanding the judiciary’s narrow focus on the judges and extend this to court
administrators and clerks, financial officers and ICT professionals in order to maintain
the integrity of the current system.

Finally, measuring this Project’s success is extremely difficult given the Macedonian
justice sector’s rapid transformation during Project design and implementation. It will
take considerable time and resources to consolidate all of the reforms set in place during
Project design and implementation. The Project made positive contributions to the
implementation of new court case management and bankruptcy procedures, and
streamlining administrative cases, and as such, the Project’s success should ultimately be
measured with this in mind. Sustainability becomes a pressing issue, however, when the
Project is viewed in the light of additional pressures from the GoMK’s adoption of e-
service of judgments and the electronic recording of court hearings. The overall success
of the Project will depend largely on a sustained, open dialogue on issues of capacity and
continued support and technical assistance by donors to help in the consolidation process.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No issues raised.

(b) Cofinanciers



                                            20
The Project was implemented in parallel with other donor projects, notably two
successive USAID projects. During the design and implementation of the LJIIS Project,
the cooperation between these two entities was highly beneficial to both parties. It should
be noted that the early USAID project created the groundwork that led to the ultimate
success of the World Bank funded Project. Without USAID’s initial investment and
technical assistance, the Bank Project would not have created the same impact.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The private sector was the largest group of stakeholders within Macedonia. They did see
some improvements in the sector. The passage of new laws led to reduced processing
times within the courts, which was recognized by judges and lawyers alike. Nevertheless,
there was a general sense that FYR Macedonia’s laws could be improved.

Also of note was the general view by the public that there was great room for
improvement in the public outreach initiative begun by the courts. Private lawyers
commented that the judicial performance measurement had little impact on the quality of
judges. This sentiment was also echoed by the Macedonian Association of Judges. The
Macedonian Association of Judges in particular felt that there should be some changes
made to the current system of judicial performance measurement to include the overall
complexity of the cases. In addition, they noted that some criteria should also be
introduced in the measurement to include the overturning or upholding of cases at the
appellate level.




                                            21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in EUR Million equivalent)

                                   Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
        Components                  (EUR millions)                   (EUR millions)             Percentage of Appraisa




 Ministerial and Judicial
 Capacity Building                                 1,855,000                        889,953              48%
 Improving Judicial
 Infrastructure                                    7,735,000                       5,203,866             67%
 Enhancing Judicial IT
 System                                            1,920,000                       1,510,629             79%
 Implementation Office                                 305,000                      403,440             132%
       Total Baseline Cost                                   0                             0
 Physical Contingencies                                      0                             0              0
 Price Contingencies                                         0                             0              0
        Total Project Costs                                  0                             0
 Front-end fee IBRD                                25,000.00                       25,000.00            100%
            Total Financing
                 Required                         11,900,000                       8,032,888             68%


(b) Financing

                                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                                         Appraisal Estimate          Estimate
                                                                                                         Percentage of
    Source of Funds         Type of Cofinancing            (EUR millions)          (EUR millions)         Appraisal
 Borrower                      State Budget                                 2.36               0.79                  3

International Bank for
Reconstruction and
Development                                                             12.41                  8.03                  6




                                                  22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Activity                           Deliverables/Result                Impact
Component 1a.Improving the Quality of the Judicial Management and the Judiciary
Renovation and expansion of        Renovated space as well as an      Better working conditions for the
office space for Judicial Council. extension of 300m2 office area     Judicial Council.
                                   for Judicial Council.
Software for electronic delivery   Web application for distribution   Use of software to provide for
system for distribution of court   of court documents.                electronic delivery of court
documents.                                                            documents.
Survey of the public, judges’ and                                     The Judicial Council receives
JC employees’ experience                                              feedback from the public, staff,
regarding the functioning of the                                      and judges on the competencies
Judicial Council and the judicial                                     and functioning of the Judicial
reforms.                                                              Council as an institution.
Study trips for the Judicial       Visits to judicial institutions of The Judicial Council members
Council.                           Slovenia, Italy, Lithuania.        gaining comparative experiences
                                                                      in the area of selection,
                                                                      evaluation and promotion of
                                                                      judges from other countries.
Security equipment for Judicial                                       Improved security for the offices
Council and airconditioning for                                       of the Judicial Council; basic
the Server Room of the MoJ.                                           conditions for secure operation of
                                                                      the server room of the Ministry of
                                                                      Justice.
Functional Analysis of the Courts Analysis of the entire judicial     The analysis is a base for areas
for the CBC.                       system, identification of gaps in  that need future improvement in
                                   the area of monitoring and         the judicial system.
                                   evaluation, strategic management
                                   of the courts and determining the
                                   cost of court cases.
Study trip for the Administrative  IACA Conference in Istanbul.       Better understanding of the
Office of CBC.                                                        capacities and competencies of
                                                                      the administrative staff of the
                                                                      newly instituted Court Budget
                                                                      Council on court administration
                                                                      issues.
Component 1b. Administrative Inspection and Administration Dispute Resolution
Training for SAI Management.       EGPA Conference-Madrid             Improvement of the capacities
                                   IIAS Conference-Helsinki           and competencies of the director
                                   EGPA Conference-Malta              and inspectors of the State
                                   NISPA Conference-Warsaw            Administrative Inspectorate in the
                                                                      area of public administration.
Training of SAI on                 8 two-day trainings should be      Better and more consistent
Implementation of Internal         organized for 45                   understanding and application of
Regulation.                        participants/inspectors            the internal procedures for
                                   (discussions and sharing           conducting inspection of the State
                                   experience with resolution of      Administrative Inspectorate for
                                   typical problems, addressing       all inspectors throughout the
                                   problems regarding the             country.
                                   implementation, which occur in
                                   the FYR Macedonian
                                   administrative practice).
Development of Management          Web based management               The system supports the everyday


                                                  23
Information System for SAI and      information system for State          work of inspectors and other
subsequent training for             Administrative Inspectorate.          inspectorate’s staff, professional
inspectors.                                                               development of the
                                                                          administrative inspectors.
                                                                          Furthermore it strengthens
                                                                          communication and information
                                                                          flow. The system captures
                                                                          enterprise-level data to allow the
                                                                          inspection management to set
                                                                          priorities, allocate resources and,
                                                                          evaluate the outcomes (results)
                                                                          through quantitative performance
                                                                          indicators.
Hardware support for SAI and                                              Mobile computer access to the
Ministry of Justice -laptops and                                          SAI Management Information
multifunctional devices.                                                  System for the inspectors for
                                                                          uninterrupted field work.
Completing the reform of the        Organization of a set of              Better implementation aspects of
administrative legislation,         workshops providing direct            public/administrative law vis-à-
administrative judiciary and        analysis, assistance, advice and      vis the European legislation with
public administration.              concrete suggestions by experts
                                                                          regards to the Human Rights
                                    in the administrative-legal area in
                                    order to better harmonize national    Court in Strasbourg and the
                                    legislation with European law.        principles of the public
                                                                          administration performance.
                                                                          Furthermore, promotion of a
                                                                          common understanding by the
                                                                          State Administrative Inspectors
                                                                          on : (a) the Law on Organization
                                                                          and Work of the State
                                                                          Administration Bodies; (b) the
                                                                          Law on General Administrative
                                                                          Procedure and (c) the Law on
                                                                          Administrative Disputes.

Component 1c. Improving Bankruptcy Administration and MoE Supervision
Training workshops and study       Study trip to Estonia and           Creating, maintenance and
trips for the bankruptcy trustees. Romania;                            improvement of the bankruptcy
                                   Two workshops related to            trustee profession, which
                                   increasing the knowledge and        contributes to the improvement of
                                   specialization of the licensed      the judicial efficiency in
                                   trustees.                           conducting the bankruptcy
                                                                       procedures.
Support for MoE Bankruptcy         Design of an electronic database    The system supports the everyday
Supervision Office- Statistics/IT  for the Bankruptcy supervision      work of Trustees. The system
consultant.                        Unit of the Ministry of Economy     captures enterprise-level data to
                                   which meets the requirements of     allow the inspection management
                                   content, timeliness, access, and    to set priorities, allocate resources
                                   ease/cost of maintenance.           and, evaluate the outcomes
                                                                       (results) through quantitative
                                                                       performance indicators.
Bankruptcy Training Program.       Provide judges and prosecutors      Full understanding of conducting
                                   specialized bankruptcy law          bankruptcy procedures for the
                                   training by enhancing their ability judges, prosecutors and



                                                    24
                                     to coordinate the procedure and       bankruptcy trustees.
                                     increase the cooperation with
                                     judges from commercial
                                     department who are part of the
                                     bankruptcy councils;

                                     -Improve and strengthen judicial
                                     function towards protection of the
                                     domestic and foreign investments
                                     and cooperation between
                                     bankruptcy judges, bankruptcy
                                     trusties and creditors;

                                     -Promote the concept of
                                     sustainable bankruptcy law
                                     training for judges and other legal
                                     professionals at the national level
                                     by including such training as part
                                     of the regular Curriculum and
                                     activities of the Academy for
                                     training of judges and prosecutors
                                     of FYR Macedonia.
Equipping the Chamber of             Complete furnishing of the office     Proper working conditions for the
Trustees.                            space for the Chamber of              Chamber of Trustees.
                                     Bankruptcy Trustees.
Provision of Experts in the legal    Long-term, in-house                   Expert input on bankruptcy legal
and financial areas.                 consultancies.                        procedures in the course of
                                                                           training the bankruptcy trustees
                                                                           and judges.
Administrative and Legal support Consultancies.                            Proper administrative functioning
for the Chamber of Trustees.                                               of the Chamber of Trustees.
Component 2. Improving Judicial Infrastructure
Design and Supervision for the   Designs, civil works for                  Better functionality of the space,
renovation of the 11 court       renovation of 9 court buildings           better working conditions for the
buildings.                       for Basic courts with enhanced            court.
                                 jurisdiction and furniture for            All courtrooms are renovated and
                                 renovated space area:                     equipped with new furniture,
                                 -Renovation of the court                  archives are renovated, access for
                                 buildings in Strumica, Tetovo,            handicapped people and separate
                                 Veles, Struga, Shtip and Ohrid.           entrance for employees is
                                 - Renovation of the court                 provided in each court,
                                 buildings in Gostivar, Kumanovo           replacement of windows and
                                 and Kochani .                             electric lights are energy
                                 -Surveillance equipment for the           efficiency methods, replacement
                                 courts in Gostivar, Kochani and           of water supply and sewage
                                 Kumanovo.                                 installations and damaged roofs
                                                                           are methods for improving the
                                                                           structure and working conditions.
Geotechnical report and revision     Designs for court extension, civil    Construction on the extension of
of the main project design for the   works for renovation of existing      building is not realized because
reconstruction of the court in       court building for Basic court        licenses are not provided by
Bitola; Renovation of the court      Bitola with enhanced jurisdiction     municipality Bitola, but design
building in Bitola.                  and furniture for renovated space     can be useful in future.
                                     area.
                                                                           Better working conditions for the
                                     Furniture is procured for the court   court in Bitola


                                                     25
                                      in Bitola.
Furniture for the court in Prilep.    Complete furniture for the new       Better working conditions for the
                                      extended part of court building in   court.
                                      Prilep.                              Equipment of the representative
                                                                           3000 m2 court space with
                                                                           courtrooms, offices for judges,
                                                                           offices for court administration,
                                                                           archive and intake hall.
Design and construction of a new      Designs and civil works for new      New energy efficient building
court building – Basic Court          court building and designs for       with 9000 m2 space on 10 floors
Skopje 1.                             renovation of existing building      in accordance with needs of 7
                                      Basic Court Skopje1.                 departments of Criminal Court
Design Supervision for Skopje 1.                                           Skopje and 3 separate levels for
                                                                           employees, public and prisons.
                                                                           Protection with video
                                                                           surveillance equipment and
                                                                           control for access.
                                                                           Standards for modern court
                                                                           buildings are implemented during
                                                                           design process.
Furniture for the Administrative    New office furniture for complete      Proper functioning of the
Court.                              equipment.                             Administrative Court.
Furniture for the Judicial Council. New office furniture for complete      Proper functioning of the Judicial
                                    equipment.                             Council.
Component 3. Enhancing Judicial IT System
Hardware, software and              Servers, racks, UPSs, PCs,             Proper functioning of the
additional services for the rollout operating systems, and software        Automated Court Case
of the ACCMIS: Servers, Racks,      for virtualization for servers,        Management System, i.e
UPS, software licenses              software for central management        ACCMIS application is
                                    of virtual servers, DBMS               integrated in the courts’ everyday
                                    software, antivirus licenses, user     activities.
                                    CALs for virtual server operating
                                    systems and new DBMS,
                                    additional services for proper
                                    function of the Information
                                    system-for 32 courts, Judicial
                                    Council and Ministry of Justice.
Hardware, software and              Central Backup solution for 34         Proper functioning of the
additional services for the rollout servers, connected in VPN with         Automated Court Case
of the ACCMIS: Central backup       the central location (for Supreme      Management System, i.e.
Solution for Supreme Court          Court) and installation and            ACCMIS application is
                                    adjustment of the software for         integrated in the courts’ everyday
                                    central backup/restore of data         activities.
                                    from 34 locations that are
                                    connected through IP VPN
                                    (MPLS) with the Supreme Court
                                    of RM as a central location.
Network Equipment for the           Switches, network management           Upgraded network system in
Courts                              and monitoring software, cabling       order to meet the requirements of
                                    infrastructure.                        the new application technologies,
                                                                           i.e. for proper functioning of the
                                                                           ACCMIS (Automated Court Case
                                                                           Management System) and ABMS
                                                                           (Automated Court Budget
                                                                           Management System).



                                                     26
Improving the Network Function    Connection of 77 judicial           Enhancement of the network
of the Courts-VPN connectivity    facilities in FYR Macedonia on      connectivity among courts in RM
for 12 months, supply and         46 access points through WAN /      for proper functioning of
installation of switches and      IP VPN network. The scope of        ACCMIS (Automated Court Case
extended warranty of existing     work includes supply,               Management System) and ABMS
routers.                          installation, configuration,        (Automated Court Budget
                                  management, monitoring and          Management System).
                                  maintenance of VPN lines.
Computer hardware for the court   Personal computers for the court    Electronic registration of
registry offices.                 registry offices to automate the    documents.
                                  process of registration of
                                  documents
Computer Hardware for the         Personal computers, switches,       Proper functioning of the
Administrative Court.             server, copier.                     Administrative Court.
LAN and telephone system for      Telephones, fax, scanner, LCD       Proper functioning of the
the Administrative Court.         projector.                          Administrative Court.
Computer Equipment for the        Database Server, File Server, FTP   Successful entry, updating and
LDBIS-Supreme Court and           Server, Web Server, Workstation     keeping of all legal documents
Judicial Council.                 PC and Printers.                    published in the Official Gazette
                                                                      of RM into the Legal Data Base
                                                                      Information System (LDBIS)
                                                                      which is operating successfully
                                                                      and with free public access
                                                                      through the Ministry of Justice
                                                                      website.
Office equipment and telephones   Telephones, faxing machines,        Proper functioning of the main
for SAI.                          scanners                            office of the State Administrative
                                                                      Inspectorate.
Document scanners for the         Document scanners.                  Scanning documents now
courts.                                                               necessary for proper filing in the
                                                                      ACCMIS (Automated Court Case
                                                                      management System).
IT equipment for High             Personal computers, printers,       Operation of the newly
Administrative Court.             server.                             constituted High Administrative
                                                                      court.




                                                 27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The PAD suggested a number of factors that could be used in measuring the Project’s
economic and financial impact. Many of these, however, were –and remain – difficult to
tie directly back to the Project objectives. The PAD posited that the Project’s indirect
benefits might include more predictable and uniform application of the rule of law,
strengthened business confidence, and a more stable investment climate. While these are
all noble ideas on the grand scale, the economic crisis that swept through Europe
beginning in 2009 and continued through the end of the Project made even casual
inferences about the Project’s economic benefits difficult to surmise.

Similarly, the PAD also posited that the “improved delivery of judicial services and other
Pproject outcomes would help lower the costs of doing business in FYR Macedonia,
reduce the cost of, and accelerate litigation, bankruptcy and administrative disputes,
increase confidence in, and access to, the judicial system, as well as make more
transparent the conduct of judges and other personnel.? Some of these criteria have been
met – notably the greater transparency in the conduct of judges and the acceleration of
bankruptcy and administrative disputes. Nevertheless, the increasing complexity of the
Macedonian justice system and the looming economic crisis in Europe create tremendous
externalities that then make it difficult to measure any one factor in the Project.

There have been demonstrable economic benefits reaped by the Project’s modest
investment in the State Administrative Inspectorate, and with the adoption and
implementation of Bankruptcy Trustees. The reduction in dispute resolution time for the
SAI through the adoption of an information technology solution has been cut by – on
average – at least two weeks of staff time, and has reduced postage fees incurred.

Similarly, the Project financing used to create the Bankruptcy Trustee’s Chambers has
helped to form the first, fully-fledged Bankruptcy Chambers in all of the Balkans. Certain
interactions between judges and the Bankruptcy trustees need to be worked out, but for
the most part the trustees now work independently in resolving cases. Using the World
Bank 2004 Cost of Doing Business survey and data as a baseline, the following progress
can be noted:




                                           28
                                            Table A3.1

           Indicator                           20047                             20128
      Time to Complete a                        3.7                               2.0
     Bankruptcy (in years)
    Cost as a % of the estate                    38                                10
      Recovery Rate (%)                          7.9                              42.0

As illustrated by this table, the time to complete a bankruptcy case has been nearly halved
– from 3.7 years to 2 years, and the cost of a bankruptcy has dramatically decreased
(28%). The recovery rate on bankruptcies has also increased dramatically, demonstrating
that the bankruptcy trustees are more efficient in recovering assets than the previous
system which relied solely on the courts.

There is better monitoring of the performance of the courts and the judiciary, as well as
better utilization and maintenance of the ICT system. Subsequently, the increased
utilization and better monitoring have only highlighted the lack of general capital and
human resources to maintain the current systems. For instance, while the ICT system is
currently functioning, it is working well beyond capacity. Without a plan to renew or
upgrade existing ICT systems (already being taxed) through new and improved hardware,
the overall continuity is in danger. Similarly, the judiciary’s focus on hiring judges and
overall rigidities in hiring other support staff (e.g., clerks of court, financial officers, ICT
specialists) jeopardize the court model that the Bank has financed for the past six years.
As a result, some short-term economic and financial benefits accrued by the Project may
not be sustainable unless the Judiciary takes great strides to improve its capital planning.
The lack of a follow-on Capital Investment program for the court ICT -- beyond the year
2010—leads one to believe that overall financial sustainability is not yet within reach.




7
  Doing Business – Benchmarking Business Regulations, World Bank Group (2005), as cited in draft
Improving the Business Climate in Macedonia: A Legal and Judicial Enforcement Assessment., World
Bank Group (2005).

8
 Doing Business – Measuring Business Regulations, World Bank Group (2012), as referenced on August
13, 2012: http://www.doingbusiness.org/data/exploreeconomies/macedonia,-fyr#resolving-insolvency



                                                 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Gerhard Botha             Sr Financial Sector Spec.          ECSPF
Olav Rex Christensen      Senior Public Finance Specialist   HDNED
Frederic Gielen           Consultant                         ECCAT
Mala D. Johnson           Program Assistant                  ECSPE
David Nagy                Consultant                         LCSFM
Camille Anne Nuamah       Country Manager                    LCCNI
Gurcharan Singh           Senior Procurement Specialist      TWICT
                          Private Sector Development
Jasminka Varnalieva                                          ECSPF
                          Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Denis Boskovski           Country Operations Officer         ECCMK
Olav Rex Christensen      Senior Public Finance Specialist   HDNED
Aleksandar Crnomarkovic   Financial Management Specialist    ECSO3
Amy Evans                 Consultant (Safeguards)             ECSS1
Ahmet Gokce               Consultant (Procurement)           ECSO2
Claire Louise Greer       Consultant (Operations)            ECSPE
Evgenij Najdov            Sr Country Economist                ECSP2
Philip Gerald Thacker     Consultant                         ECSPE
Jasminka Varnalieva       Private Sector Development Spe     ECSPF


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY06                                                                  200.85
 FY07                                                                    0.00
 FY08                                                                    0.00
                          Total:                                       200.85
Supervision/ICR
 FY06                                                                    0.00
 FY07                                                                  104.71
 FY08                                                                   97.78
                          Total:                                       202.49




                                          30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                   32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

No comments received.




                                  33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents




                                    35
