E461
Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.  INTRODUCTION
1.1    Background
1.2   The Purpose of Environmental Guidelines
1.3   Environmental Assessment (EA)
2.  POLICY, LEGAL & ADMINISTRATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL
FRAMEWORK
2.1    Regulatory Framework For Environmental Impact Assessment
2.2    Existing Environmental Legislation
2.2.1  International Conventions
2.2.2  Existing Lebanese Legislations
2.3   Permit Procedures
3.  POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
AND GOOD PRACTICE MITIGATION PROCEDURES
3.1   Positive Environmental Impact
3.2    Negative Environmental Impacts
3.2.1  Overview of Negative Environmental Impacts
3.2.2  Potable Water Supply Sub-projects
3.2.3  Wastewater Collection and Treatment Subprojects
3.2.4  Irrigation and Drainage Schemes
3.2.5  Rural and Agricultural Roads
3.2.6  Small Construction Subrojects
4.  ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCEDURES AND
GUIDELINES
4.1   Status of the CDP Environment Review
4.2   Institutional Arrangement
4.3   Program Cycle
4.4    Environmental Screening at the Program Level
4.5   Promotion of Subprojects Within the Regional Program
FILE   COPY                           18/04/01 -Page I of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
4.6   Formulation of Subprojects
4.7   Appraisal and Approval of Proposed Programs
4.7.1 Desk Review
4.7.2 Field Appraisal
4.7.3 Approval
4.8  Implementation and Monitoring
5.  TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT
5.1   Environmental Assessement Objectives
5.2   Environmental Assessement Requirements
5.3   Terms of Reference for EA Report
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
6.1   Objectives and Structure of the EMP
6.2   Implementation of Mitigation Measures
6.3   Training Program and Capacity Building
6.4   Environmental Monitoring
6.5   Cost Estimates
7.    REFERENCES
APPENDICES
APPENDIX A:    ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION
APPENDIX B:    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND GOOD PRACTICE
PROCEDURES
APPENDIX C:    ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
APPENDIX D:    ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
18/04/01 - Page 2 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CDP          Community Development Project
CDR          Council of Development and Reconstruction
EA           Environmental Assessment
EDS          Environmental Data Sheet
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
MOE          Ministry of Environment
MOMRA        Ministry of Municipalities and Rural Affairs
NGOs -       Non Governmental Organizations
PAF          Project Application Form
PIs          Project Intermediaries
PMT          Project Management Team
TOR          Terms of Reference
18/04/01 - Page 3 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    Background
This Report has been prepared to present the environmental requirements and guidelines
for the Community Development Project (CDP) that the Government of Lebanon is
planning to initiate. The Government of Lebanon (GOL) will initiate a major Community
Development Project (CDP) that aims at raising living standards in targeted poorer
communities.
..The report aims at providing guidance in identifying environmental assessment needs for
the various subprojects that are funded by the CDP. Funded subprojects fall under three
categories:
(i)    Social Development: Rehabilitation  and  upgrading  of public  schools,
rehabilitation and upgrading of health centers, creation of youth, cultural and
sports centers, revolving textbook projects, literacy and immunization
campaigns, social services to ex-detainees and vulnerable groups.
(i)    Rural infrastructure improvement: Community potable water supply, wells and
spring protection; small wastewater collection, treatmentand disposal schemes;
rural and agricultural roads; small irrigation and drainage schemes; land
reclamation and rehabilitation of terraces; reforestation and soil erosion
protection; protection of natural and cultural heritage sites.
(iii)  Income enhancement: Micro-credit finance, basic skills and vocational training,
support to artisans and handicrafts activities.
The report is structured as follows:
Chapter I - Introduction:
Chapter 2 - Policy, Legal & Administrative Environmental Framework:
Chapter 3 - Potential Significant Environmental Impacts and Good Practice
Environmental mitigation procedures:
Chapter 4 - Environmental Review Procedures:
Chapter 5 - Terms of Reference for Environmental Assessment:
Chapter 6 - Environmental Management Plan:
1.2    The Purpose of Environmental Guidelines
The implementation of the CDP falls under the responsibility of the Council of
Development and Reconstruction (CDR) who would be in charge of coordinating the
various activities with concerned sectoral ministries, local governments, and NGOs. A
18/04/01 - Page 4 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
project management team (PMT) will be established and would comprise experts with
relevant experience in implementing similar projects, and with proven capacity to handle
all functions required in such a project. Among its mandates, the PMT will ensure that
any sponsored subproject is environmentally sound and sustainable. The PMT shall
ensure the following:
- Environmental considerations be included as criteria for selecting activities to be
supported by the project;
- Environmental assessment would become an integral part of the project cycle of any
subproject;
- Environmental guidelines are followed and used.
The execution of the CDP will be undertaken by Project Intermediaries (PIs) who would
consist of qualified national and international NGOs with strong community ties and
proven execution capacity. The Pls would assist local NGOs and communities in
identifying local needs. preparing subprojects, coordinating with concerned ministries,
and implementing the subprojects. The PIs shall ensure the following:
- Environmental guidelines are followed and used through outdie project cycle;
- Environmental issues are introduced to beneficiaries through education and
promotion of environmentally beneficial subprojects.
2.2    Environmental Assessment (EA)
The World Bank Operational Policy (OP 4.01) on Environmental Assessment (January
1999) defines the Bank's environmental assessment requirements to ensure that funded
projects are environmentally sound and sustainable. A screening process is undertaken
for all funded projects to assess the magnitude and adversity of predicted environmental
impacts and to determine the appropriate extent and type of EA. Depending on the type,
location, sensitivity and scale of the project as well as the nature and magnitude of
environmental impacts. projects are classified into one of three categories:
Category A    Projects that are likely to cause significant and possibly irremediable
environmental impacts.
Category B    Projects that might cause lesser adverse impacts than those of Category
A and the impacts are often remediable or mitigable.
Category C    Projects which could have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts.
Subprojects funded by the CDP are classified as Category B or Category C. For instance
all income enhancement subprojects will be classified as Category C, while most social
and infrastructure subprojects will be Category B. Subprojects that are likely to cause
18/04/01 - Page 5 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
substantial negative impacts and are expected to fall in Category A, will not be approved
for funding.
The following Chapters of the Environmental Guidelines will provide guidance with
respect to the preparation of environmental assessment for the various funded
subprojects. These guidelines are based on the World Bank Operational Policies (OP
4.01), the Environmental Assessment Source book (1991) and its updates. The user of
these guidelines should consult these references and should be also aware of the
following World Bank's Environmental Policy:
- Environmental Assessment (OP4.0 1)
-    Conservation of Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
- Water Resources Management (OP4.07)
- Pest Management (OP 4.09)
- Cultural Property (OP 4.11)
- Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.20)
- Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)
- Forestry (OP 4.36)
18/04/01 - Page 6 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
2.  POLICY, LEGAL & ADMINISTRATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL
FRAMEWORK
2.1    Regulatory Framework for Environmental Impact Assessment
Presently, the environmental framework of Lebanon is managed and supervised by the Ministry
of Environment (MOE) that was created by law 216 of April 2nd, 1993 to be the government
institution responsible for the development of a national strategy for sustainable development.
The MOE is undergoing several review procedures to up-date the country's environmental
policies and regulations including the preparation of a code de l'Environnement, an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) decree, as well as norms and standards for
environmental protection. The Envioronmental code as well as the draft EIA were prepared with
the assistance of the World Bank under the Mediterrenean Environmental Technical Assistance
Program (METAP). Also the World Bank has financed through METAP an assessment of the
EIA System in Lebanon. This Assessment is attached in Annex AS.
METAP has also supported the establishment of an environmental impact assessment unit at the
MOE. The concept of EIA as part of project planning in Lebanon-i-still new and has only
recently gained some attention. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) decree that was
prepared by the MOE will require that an EIA be prepared during the planning process of both
public and private development projects in Lebanon.
Although the EIA decree has not been passed by the Lebanese Government, EIA studies are
being undertaken for most projects especially those that are being funded by International
Organizations and Lending Agencies. The EA unit at MOE has started reviewing EA reports
submitted by many operators. Its staff consists of two environmental specialists. EA are being
conducted based on the procedures developed in the draft EA decree which complv with the
World Bank EA requirements.
During the past few years, environmental units have been created as part of the project
implementation arrangements of several projects. Among these are the environmental unit at the
Ministry of Public Works and the environmental unit at the Green plan as well as in CDR. Other
ministries have developed environmental guidelines to provide guidance in the preparation and
implementation of environmentaly sound projects (Ministry of Municipality and Rural Affairs -
Environmental Guidelines for Municipal Infrastructure Project). METAP has also financed a
series of EA training workshops for line ministries as well as EA awareness workshops for
municipalities.
18/04/01 - Page 7 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
2.2    Existing Environmental Legislation
2.2.1 International Conventions
The Lebanese Government has ratified a large number of international conventions for
Environmental Protection. Among the most important ones are:
- The Barcelona Convention for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea
- International Convention on World Heritage Protection
- International Convention on Bio-diversity Protection
-  United Nations Convention on Desertification
-  Montreal Protocole for the protection of the Ozone layer
2.2.3 Existing Lebanese Legislations
A list of the most significant existing environmental legislation is given in Appendix Al. The
primary safeguards as they are likely to affect CDP subprojects are summarized in the following
sections.
Natural Landscape
Protection of the natural landscape of Lebanon was first addressed under the Law of January
1949. Recently, cutting of trees was severely restricted under Decree No.1/42 of March 1993,
and further protection was provided under Law No. 550 dated July 1996. There are also a number
of Laws and Decisions that were issued to protect sites of particularly valuable landscape by
declaring them Natural Reserves. A list of the Natural Reserves is given in Appendix A2.
Soil, Water and Air Pollution
Protection against pollution was first addressed by Decree No. 8735 of October 1974 that
prohibited the digging of wells for the disposal of raw sewage, banned infiltration from cesspits,
and the use of sewage for the irrigation of vegetables and some fruits. Decision No. 52/1 of July
1996 introduced measures to deal with the pollution of the air, water and soil, including national
standards for drinking water, bathing waters and wastewater quality. Recently, Decision No. 8/1
dated March 2001completed and reviewed the previously issued standards. Details of all
available standards are given in Appendices A3 and A4.
Water Resources
Ground and surface water resources have been protected since the introduction of Order No. 144
dated June 1925, which covered the major springs that supply the country's potable and irrigation
needs. Zoning of water sources and recharging of catchment areas was introduced by Decree
10276 of October 1962 to coop with increasing demand for water. In 1970, Decree 14438
established a limit on the depth and exploitation of unlicensed wells and boreholes; 150 m and
100 m3/d respectively.
18/04/01 - Page 8 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Archaeological and Historical Sites
The protection of archaeological and historic sites was first addressed in Law No. 1666 of
November 1933. Later legislation has been introduced to afford special protection to the Cultural
Heritage, World Heritage and Cultural Landscape Sites declared by UNESCO.
Public Streets
Law No. 60 of September 1983 covers Work in public streets, law No. 98 of September 1989,
and by Circular 6/95 issued by the Prime Minister's Office on March 1995.
23    Permit Procedures
Depending on the type and size of the subproject to be executed and according to the Lebanese
legislation, a number of approvals and permits might be required from various governmental
agencies. In view of their nature and scale, the majority of the subprojects that would be funded
by the CDP will only require the approval of the municipality and or the Ministry of
municipalities and Rural Affairs. Yet, few subprojects might require permitting or approvals from
line ministries.
For all large scale subprojects requiring an environmental assessment report, such as new roads,
wastewater treatment and disposal, the PMT will forward the environmental assessment report to
the Ministry of Environment for approval prior to giving final approval and financing the
subproject.
18/04/01 - Page 9 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.  POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
AND GOOD PRACTICE MITIGATION PROCEDURES
3.1    Positive Environmental Impact
Most sub-projects financed by the CDP will have a positive impact on the surrounding
environment if they are well designed and properly implemented. Wastewater systems and
treatment plants can help decrease the spread of disease and improve public health conditions.
The provision of adequate wastewater collection and treatment has major positive impacts on the
preservation of water quality in rivers, streams and acquifers. Proper treatment of wastewater can
also provide a safe new source of water for irrigation purposes.
The use of proper irrigation and drainage systems has major positive impacts upon the
conservation of water quality and quantity, enhancement of soil fertility and productivity as well
as improving agricultural yield and employment opportunities. Similarly, the provision of
adequate water supply and the protection of water sources will reduce water losses, preserve
water quality and improve hygenic conditions.
New rural and agricultural roads can have a significant economical ari social impacts. The
construction of new roads can facilitate access to agricultural lands, schools, health centers and
other community facilities and services.
Another way in which the CDP can have a positive impact on the environment is through the
financing of sun-projects whose principal objective is to produce a positive environmental
impact. The benefits of this type of sub-projects are often long term rather than short termn and are
not limited to the specific local community. Examples of environmentaly beneficial sub-projects
that will be financed by the CDP are: reforestation and soil erosion protection; protection of
natural and cultural heritage sites.
The CDP will also generate environmental benefits through a variety of other mechanisms among
which are:
-  Generation of environmental assesment guidelines that can be used by other organizations or
ministries, or could be adopted by the Ministry of Environment for more general use;
-  Training of environmental specialists, thus increasing the number of environmental
professionals in the country:
-  Improved environmental awareness in the local communities.
18/04/01 - Page 10 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.2    Negative Environmental Impacts
3.2.1 Overview of Negative Environmental Impacts
The CDP will finance a considerable number of different types of subprojects. An important
percentage of the funding will be allocated for infrastructure and social development including
community potable water supply, wells and spring protection; small wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal schemes; rural and agricultural roads; small irrigation and drainage
schemes; land reclamation and rehabilitation of land terraces; rehabilitation and upgrading of
public schools and health centers, and creation of youth, cultural and sports centers. Though
intended to improve environmental and social conditions, these subprojects can have a variety of
negative environmental impacts that might be encouintered during the construction and/or the
operation of the subprojects.
Under certain conditions, some subprojects can have considerable irreversible negative impacts
and will not be approved for funding. Subprojects that will not be approved for funding include:
- Land terracing on slopes greater than 40%
- Subprojects requiring deforestation
-  Subprojects adversly affecting natural habitats and biodiversity (ref'.ppendix A2).
- Subprojects that would affect cultural heritage sites.
- Subprojects that include the purchase and use of pesticides and herbicides.
The mitigation of negative environmental impacts may be achieved through various techniques
and ways. The mitigation of construction impacts is usually achieved by ensuring the Contractor
undertakes his work in accordance with good construction practices. Construction negative
impacts are best dealt with by incorporating mitigation clauses into the Bidding Documents.
Examples of good practice mitigation measures are given in Appendix B I. Site supervision staff
must check that the works are carried out in accordance with these good practice measures
throughout project implementation. Typical examples of negative environmental impacts that
might arise from the construction of the various subprojects are given in Appendix B2.
Environmental impacts arising from the operation of the different subprojects can be minimised
by appropriate site selection, good engineering desip and appropriate construction techniques. A
brief description of the different types of subprojects, the most common negative environmental
impacts that might arise and possible mitigation measures are discussed in the following Sections.
3.2.2 Potable Water Supply Sub-projects
Rural water supply sub-projects funded by the CDP could include the provision of community
water distribution systems, house connections, well pumps and springwater collection and
distribution. The most important considerations associated with water supply subprojects include
proper allocation and use of water resources, control and prevention of water contamination and
adequate operation and maintenance of the system. Hence, it will be necessary to take the
necessary measures to ensure adequate water quantity and quality at the source.
18/04/01 -Page 11 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
During the operation of the system, attention should be given to the proper prevention of
contamination from municipal and industrial wastewater, solid wastes, agricultural practices, and
human settlements. Testing of the water supply as required in each subproject monitoring plan
should be performed on a regular basis to detect any contamination and to ensure the adequacy of
the water quality. An operation and maintenance program should be also included as part of the
subproject.
3.2.3 Wastewater Collection and Treatment Subprojects
Typical wastewater sub-projects for rural communities include septic tanks and small scale
sewage collection systems not to exceed a total cost of US$ 100,000. The execution of
wastewater treatment and disposal is not common in community subprojects, yet under certain
circumstances such type of subprojects could be executed.
Septic tanks are provided to improve health conditions and to reduce the contamination of land
and water resources. To meet these objectives, special attention should be given to the technical
siting requirements, the type of construction, and sanitary measures. Poor absorption, frequent
runoff and contamination of water sources are among the major impacts that might arise from the
poor conception and execution of septic tanks. Proper engineeringde.sign, acceptable to the
World Bank, should be conducted.
Sewage collection subprojects generally involve the construction of underground collection
pipelines and house connections. In most cases the sewage collection system is designed and
constructed without any type of treatment at the end of the pipeline. Collected sewage is either
discharge to an existing sewage system or discharge without any treatment into water bodies.
Connection to an existing sewage should not be conducted without ensuring that the capacity of
the existing system is adequate to accommodate the additional collected sewage. Discharge of
raw sewage to water bodies can adversly affect water quality and aquatic life. Treatment can
include simple measures such as removal of debris with screen at the discharge point or use of
settlements ponds prior to discharge.
Under certain conditions, the execution of a wastewater treatment and disposal subproject could
be necessary and highly justifiable. Though this subproject is intended to improve health and
environmental conditions, it might have important negative impacts including, change in land
use, pollution of natural resources from poorly treated wastewater, un-proper disposal and reuse
of the treated effluent..etc.  For such subprojects an environmental assessment study that
addresses site analyses, type of treatment technology, operation and maintenance, etc.. will be
required and shall confirm to the requirements of Appendix D.
3.2.4 Irrigation and Drainage Schemes
Irrigation and drainage subprojects are designed to manage water for improving agricultual
production. Irrigation and drainage subprojects may include a variety of structures including
dams, ponds, reservoirs, wells, pumping stations, canals, ditches and pipelines.
18/04/01 - Page 12 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Irrigation subprojects lead to intensifying agricultural production and to increasing the use of
agrochemicals. This in turn will cause accelerated nutrient toading of receiving waters, resulting
in the degradation of water quality, algal blooms, proliferation of aquatic weeds and
deoxygenation. Other impacts from irrigation subprojects include water logging and salinization
of soils, degradation of downstream surface water systems, and chemical changes to acquatic
systems.
Groundwater extraction for irrigation purposes have the potential to cause significant
hydrological changes. For instance extensive withdrawal from groundwater sources in excess of
aquifer recharge will result in lowering of the water table and in increasing the rate of water
salinity. Also diverting water from river systems, especially during low flow seasons, can cause
changes to riverine ecology, fisheries and aquatic vegetation.
3.2.5 Rural and Agricultural Roads
Rural and agricultural roads are designed to improve access to community facilties and to
agricultural lands. These subprojects can vary from simple rehabilitation of existing roads to the
complete provision of a new road.
Rehabilitation of roads vary from simple maintenance/asphalting to widening of existing right of
way. In general these activities do not cause significant impacts. However, attention should be
given to the various disturbances that might arise from the construction activities such as traffic
diversions, noise, dust, solid wastes, soil erosion, damage to existing vegetation ....... An
important issue that should be also addressed during the rehabilitation of rural roads is the
provision of proper drainage systems and the relocation of any existing services such as water,
electrical cables, telephone lines ..... Impacts occuring during operation (e.g noise nuisance and
safety hazards) should be also considered if road upgrading significantly changes traffic patterns.
Under certain conditions, a new road is to be build in order to provide access to agricultural areas
or communities. Though this subproject could have considerable positive social and economical
impacts, it might have negative impacts including, change in land use, pollution of natural
resources, erosion of lands, accumulation of sediments in streams, increase in runoff and flooding
conditions, disturbance of vegetation... etc. For such subprojects an environmental assessment
study that addresses site analyses, road design criteria, construction activities, operation and
maintenance, etc.. will be required and shall confirm to the requirements of Appendix D. In
addition, the World Bank Handbook: Roads and the Environment, can be used as a guidance for
the preparation of the environmental assessment.
3.2.6 Small Construction Subrojects
Small construction subprojects may include rehabilitation and upgrading of public schools and
health centers, and creation of youth, cultural and sports centers. In general, the construction of
these subprojects will not cause significant negative impacts, however they should be screened
for environmental considerations such as contamination from waste materials during
18/04/01 - Page 13 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
construction, disturbances during construction (dust, noise, etc.) and environmental
contamination during operation of the facilities such as inadequate sanitation facilities.
The most important considerations associated with public schools and recreation centers is the
provision of adequate potable water and waste drainage and collection. Handling and disposal of
medical wastes is also an important environmental consideration for health centers and should be
addressed during the design and operation of the facility. When rehabilitating or upgrading such
subprojects, prioroty should be given to the rehabilitation of toilets and to the proper disposal of
solid wastes and infectious wastes.
18/04/01 - Page 14 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
4.  ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCEDURES AND
GUIDELINES
4.1    Status of the CDP Environmental Review
Prior to approval, no preparation of subprojects were identified since these will be developed with
the assistance of Project Intermediaries (PIs) which will be selected after Project effectiveness.
The environmental requirements therefore will consist of an assessment of the institutional and
legal framework pertaining to the project as well as the development of procedures and guidelines
that the PIU will be required to follow, after it will receive on the job training during the first
month of the project implementation.
In Chapter 2, a review of the institutional and legal framework was undertaken on the basis of site
visits and meetings with the MOE and CDR, as well as the assessment report of the EIA
legislation which was developed by METAP. This Chapter addresses therefore the procedures
and guidelines for carrying out the CDP environment requirements at the program and project
level.
4.2    Institutional Arrangement
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) provides the following management arrangements:
- PMT: responsible for the project administration
- PIs: responsible for design and implementation of regional programs.
The PMT will include an Environmental specialist who will be responsible for:
-  Preparing  environmental characteristics for each region in terms of archeology. natural
habitat, water pollution, and sharing the information with the PIs;
- Reviewing the environmental screening of the program submitted by the Pls;
- Reviewing and approving the environmental assessment;
- Obtaining the approval of the Ministry of Environment for projects requiring an
environmental assessment report;
- Conducting periodic monitoring of the programs;
- Preparing annual report of the environmental situation of the CDP.
The PIs will be in charge of the environmental operation of the program. They will be selected in
accordance with specipic criteria, of which that they will have environmental specialists farmiliar
18/04/01 - Page 15 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
with community development projects. Some Pls may not have an environmental specialist and
would be required to contract an environmental consultant for performing the following duties:
-  Promote the environmental requirements and guidelines of the CDP among NGOs,
coomunities and contractors;
-  Ensure that Environmental Checklist is properly filled;
-  Provide assistance to NGOs in preparing the environmental assessment;
-  Conduct site specific environmental review in order to review the current environmental
conditions of site and assess the potential environmental impact associated with the proposed
subproject;
-  Identify mitigation measures in construction and operation;
-  Supervise the implementation of environmental management plans;
-  Prepare necessary reports.
4.3    Program Cycle
In the PAD, PIs will be requested to formulate regional programs consisting of several
subprojects. It will be therefore the PIs responsibility to conduct appropriate screening of the
individual subprojects in accordance with the environmental screening checklist provided in
Appendix C.
CDP funded subprojects/programs will follow a well defined project cycle that is detailed in the
Project Operational Manual. The manual defines the steps required to implement the subprojects
and includes the procedural forms, reviews and measures to ensure proper execution.
Environmental review procedures will be incorporated in the project cycle at the program and
subproject level. The time frame for the completion of the environmental procedures will be the
same as those given in the Operational Manual for the completion of the administrative and
technical procedures. Figure 4.1 summarizes the environmental procedures within each stage of
the CDP Program/subproject cycle.
18/04/01 - Page 16 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Figure 4.1: Environmental Requirements Within each Stage of the CDP
Program/Subproject Cycle
Program Develo ment                        Environmental Requirements
Progeram identification:
- Identification of demand driven subprojects    - Screening of subprojects by PI
- Preparation of subprojects concepts      - Preparation of Environmental Checklist by P1
- Approval of EDS by PMT
Progeram Preparation:
- Description and analysis of subprojects  - Preparation by PI or consultants of:
(i) EA report in case subprojects have
significant impacts or
(ii) EMP on the basis of generic mitigation
plans
- Subproject approvals                     - Inclusion of Mitigation measures in:
(i) tender documents for civil works
(ii) subproject design
- Approval of MOE awd.World Bank  in case
an EA report is required-
Prozram financin2:                         Ensure that environmental requirements are
included in subproject agreement with NGOs
and/or in civil works contracts
Progeram Monitoring and supervision:
- At the subproject level:                 - At the subproject level:
Implementation of subprojects              (i) PI to ensure that mitigating measures and
monitoring measures are implemented
(ii) P1 to prepare annual report on status of
EMPs
- At the program level.                    - At the program level:
Supervision of contracts/works.            Preparation by the PMT of annual report
summarizing:
- The number of subprojects that have
significant environmental impact
- The number of projects for which EMPs were
prepared
- The mitigation measuresimplemented for
subprojects that have significant environmental
impacts
_ _ _    _     ___               -Training and workshops presented
*: First Year Only
18/04/01 -Page 17 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
4.4    Environmental Screening at the Program Level
As mentionned earlier the CDP will fund a large number and a wide variety of subprojects.
While several subprojects will not require environmental assessment, the approval of some
subprojects will be subject to the completion of an environmental assessment study. Depending
on the type and size of the subproject, different levels of environmental assessment instruments
might be required.  Subprojects that should be screened to identify the type, magnitude and
severity of their potential environmental impacts are:
-  Rehabilitation and upgrading of public schools
-  Rehabilitation and upgrading of health centers
-  Creation of youth, cultural and sports centers
-  Community potable water supply
-  Wells and spring protection
-  Small wastewater collection
-  Treatment and disposal schemes
-  Rural and agricultural roads
-  Small irrigation and drainage schemes
-  Land reclamation and rehabilitation of terraces
-  Protection of natural and cultural heritage sites
For these projects, environmental screening for potential environmental impacts should be
conducted using the environmental checklist given in Appendix C. This environmental review
would be prepared by the PIs with technical assistance, if necessary, from PMT environmental
specialist. The purpose of this checklist is to better identify the likely impacts and to classify the
subprojects into one of the following categories:
-  No further environmental assessment
-  Identification and implementation of mitigation measures according to the EMP of Chapter 6.
-  Environmental Assessment Study required
The decision to conduct an environmental assessment will be based on the list prepared by the
Lebanese Ministry of Environment (MOE) in the draft EA decree, which was prepared with the
assistance of the World Bank. The list shown in Table 4.1, will determine whether or not an EA
is required. In case an EA is required the PIs will prepare TOR on the basis of Chapter 5 and
Annex D, including public participation. After preparing the EA, the PMT would require the
approval of the Ministry of Environment before financing particular subprojects.
Table 4.1     List of subprojects requiring EA According to draft MOE draft EA
Decree
(To be completed)
18/04/01 -Page 18 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
4.5    Promotion of SubprojectsWithin the Regional Program
The first stage in the CDP subprojects cycle is to initiate promotional activities and prepare
demand driven subprojects. Pls primary responsibility would be to initiate promotional programs
that aim at disseminiating information abount the CDP's objectives, guidelines and procedures
among targeted community groups.    Promotional activities will include environmental
considerations in the promotional programs in order to ensure that environment is integrated in
the projecr cycle. Pls would have to educate communities and to raise awareness on
environmental issues and requirements of CDP subprojects. This process of awareness will help
communities to better appreciate environmental concerns and to select environmentally sound
and beneficial subprojects.
4.6    Formulation of Subprojects
Following the implementation of promotional programs, community needs and priorities will be
identified, project proposals will be formulated and a program will be submitted to the PMT for
appaisal.
With respect to environment, the first step would be to screen eact subproject and identify
whether any further environmental considerations are required. The purpose of this is to identify
early in the subproject cycle the need to address potential environmental impacts during the
project preparation and design.  On the other hand, an effective screening will identify
subprojects that will generate negligible or no negative environmental impacts so that they can be
excluded from unecessary environmental review. Once all the subprojects of a program has been
screened, an environmental data sheet (EDS) for the program should be prepared. A sample EDS
form is included in Appendix C.
Subprojects that necessitate environmental consideration will either require the identification and
implementation of mitigation measures or the preparation of an environmental assessment report.
Projects requiring the identification and implementation of mitigation measures are those that
are considered to have minor environmental impacts. For these subprojects, the environmental
expert/consultant of the PIs will identify appropriate mitigation measures to be incorporated in
the project design and in the bidding documents.
An Environmental Assessment Study would be required whenever significant environmental
impacts are likely to arise from a specific subproject. In this case an environmental impact
asssessment report should be prepared and shall follow the terms of references provided in
Chapter 5. The report would require the involvement of a highly skilled environmental expert or
a team of experts. Several site visits would be undertaken, subproject specific measures would
have to be planned and a detailed evaluation and monitoring plan developed.
CDP subprojects will rarely need an environmental assessment study. Subprojects most likely to
require an environmental assessment report would be based on the MOE - draft EA decree and
include:
18/04/01 - Page 19 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
-  Wastewater collection, treatment and disposal subprojects;
-  New rural and agricultural roads with more than one kilometer length;
-  Subprojects adjacent to critical natural habitats or protected areas
-  Medium scale irrigation schemes
Subproject requiring an environmental assessment report are subject to review and approval of
the Ministry of Environment and the World Bank.
4.7    Appraisal and Approval of Proposed Programs
Once fortnulated, the proposed program is submitted to the PMT for appraisal and approval.
Desk and field appraisals will be conducted by the PMT to ensure the eligibility of the program
and to validate the information included in the proposal package. The environmental assessment
of the program should have been undertaken during program formulation so that the PMT
Environmental specialist will review the environmental assessment requirements (screening
checklist, EDS, environmental assessment, reports ..... ) and assess whether the suggested
environmental measures are appropriate. To the extent possible, environmental consideration
will be integrated into subproject design. Based on the PIs program, the PMT will either conduct
desk review or a field review depending on the nature, magnitude and severitv of the
environmental impacts.
4.7.1 Desk Review
The PMT environmental specialist will first check whether subprojects under the program has
been screened properly and whether EDS has been prepared. The EDS will then be checked for
completeness and consistency with the other submitted technical data. Any missing information
or apparent inconsistencies will be reported and the PIs will be requested to provide the necessary
clarification and information.
Once any required clarification is received and the EDS has been satisfactorly completed, the
PMT Environmental specialist will assess whether field review of some subprojects would be
required. In such instances the PI will be informed that the PMT with the assistance of the PI
would conduct a field review (see below). If a desk review is only requested the PMT
environmental specialist will proceed with the revision and evaluation of the documents.
4.7.2 Field Appraisal
Once the desk review has been completed, PMT environmental specialist will undertake a field
visit to agree with the Pls and the stakeholders on the environmental assessment requirements and
the environmental assessment studies.
Discrepencies between the environmental information presented and the PMT environmental
specialist's findings will be dealt with as follows:
18/04/01 - Page 20 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
-  For issues that can be clarified on site, the PMT environmental specialist will make his own
assessment of the situation during the field visit.
-  For issues that can have significant environmental problems, the PMT environmental
specialist will require the applicant to collect additional information and to properly address
the problem either through undertaking further environmental studies or through the inclusion
of additional requirements in the bidding documents.
4.7.3 Approval of Program
The resutts of the appraisal of the various environmental documents will be summarized in an
environmental appraisal form shown in Table 4.2 and will be included with the Project Appraisal
Report. For subprojects requiring a full environmental assessment report, the PMT will be
required to obtain the MOE prior approval. During the first year of project implementation, the
World Bank will be required to review and approve the environmental assessment report after the
MOE's approval and before financing is authorized. Post review of EA will be subsequenty
undertaken as part of the regular Bank supervision missions provided that the World Bank is fully
satisfied that the EA requirements comply with OP 4.01 during the first year. The PMT will have
to ensure that the recommendations of the environmental assessment study are included in the
technical specifications of the construction bidding documents and in te mitigation measures
developed for each subproject.
4.8   Implementation and Monitoring
Upon approval of the program proposal, arrangements regarding construction, implementation
and monitoring will be contained in the legal contract signed between the PIs and CDR. It would
be necessary that the PMT ensures that the results of the environmental assessment (special
mitigation measures, design specifications, supervision plans and monitoring arrangements) are
incorporated into the legal document. Environmental monitoring of a project performnance will
start with the construction phase and will extend to the operation phase.
The execution of the subproject contract and construction supervision is the responsibility of the
PIs. Where they do not have adequate in-house resources, the PIs will be responsible for the
appointment of a supervision consultant. Part of the construction supervision duties is to ensure
that mitigation measures are properly implemented, good practice environmental procedures are
respected and that no unforseen negative impacts are occuring as a result of subproject execution.
18/04/01 - Page 21 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Table 4.2: Environmental Appraisal Form
18/04/01- Page 22 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
5. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
ASSESSMENT
5.1    Environmental Impact Assessement Objectives
Environmental Assessment (EA) is a tool that enables decision making to assess the negative
impacts on the environment and to identify and evaluate the applicability of mitigating measures
for potential negative environmental impacts. EA also allows to ensure that:
-  The project under consideration is environmentally'sound and sustainable;
- Any environmental consequences are recognized early in the development stage and
incorporated into the project design;
- The project is implemented with full awareness of environmental factors;
- The public is participationg in the decision-making and is well informed as to when and how
the project implementation may affect their environment.
5.2    Environmental Assessement Requirements
As mentionned earlier, all CDP subprojects that require environmental assessment fall under
Category B and consequently would require some form of environmental analysis, with varying
degree of detail depending on the type, scale and location of the subproject. For the majority of
these subprojects the identification and implementation of mitigation measures will be sufficient.
Large scale subprojects that include construction of new roads with more than one kilometer
length, wastewater collection. treatment and disposal, or construction near or adjacent to critical
natural habitats or protected areas, an Environmental Impact Assessment Report will be required.
The report should provide a clear understanding of the environmental issues and the remediation
measures. In the absence of specific national requirements, the EA report should be prepared
according to the World Bank standards and should include the following sections:
- Executive Summary;
- Relevant Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework;
- Subproject Objectives and Description;
- Summary of Environmental Baseline Data;
- Significant Environmental Impacts;
- Analysis of Altemative Proposals for the Subproject;
- Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that includes:
Environmental Mitigation Measures;
Environmental Monitoring Plan;
Institutional Responsibilities and Capacity Building Requirements;
18/04/01 - Page 23 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
- Appendices;
A general description of the expected content for each section of the EA report is given in
Appendix Dl.
53    Terms of Reference for EIA Report
The terms of reference (TOR) for an EA report should provide background and guidance for the
EA team on the issues to be addressed and the actions to be undertaken during the EA study, set
the schedule and deliverables of the EA study report1 and serve as the contractual basis.  In
addition to the description of the information required in the EA report, the TOR should provide
background information on the proposed and would include:
*  a brief description of the major components of the proposed project
*  a statement of the need for the project and the objectives it intends to meet
-  the implementing agency
e a brief history of the project, including alternatives considered
-  its current status and timetable
*  a brief description of any associated projects
The general requirements for each EA report will be similar and should follow World Bank's
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environmental Assessment at the World Bank.. However, there are likely to be
minor variations related to the type and location of individual subprojects.
Sample TORs that should be considered in an EA of a new road and wastewater collection
treatment and disposal subproject are given in Appendix D2 and D3, respectively.
18/04/01 - Page 24 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
6.  ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
6.1     Objectives and Structure of the EMP
The objectives of the EMP are to mitigate the adverse environmental impacts identified in each
subproject. The EMP will consist of three kinds of activities:
-   Implementation of mitigation measures;
-   Strengthening the capacities of PMT, Pls, local NGOs and contractors;
-   Monitoring and evaluation of mitigation measures identified during subproject fornulation or
within the environmental assessment report.
6.2     Implementation of Mitigation  Measures
Mitigation measures identified following the desk/or field review shall be properly implemented.
Typical environmental impacts and possible mitigation measures are given in Table 6.1 for
guidance.  Pls will be required to adapt the generic mitigation measures for the various
subprojects included in the proposed program.
Table 6.1: Potential Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures for
Different Subprojects
Project Component       Potential Impacts          Mitigation Measures          Responsibility
Roads rehabilitation    .   Clogging of natural    *   Maintain ditches         *   Contractor
drainage channels
*   Encroachment on       *   Detailed property        *   Contractor/Pls
private property          boundary surveys and
flagging in field
*   Dumping of            *   Proper disposal of       *   Contractor
construction wastes       construction wastes
and accidental spills of
machine fuels, etc.
*   Risk of damage to     *   Use "chance find"        *   Pls/Archeology
unknown                   procedures and               department
archaeological sites      coordinate with
appropriate government
agency
Improvements to Water    *   Cross contamination   *   Coordinate with          *   Ministry of
Supply and Sanitation        sewage and water lines    appropriate agency           Energy and Water
due to pressure
differentials and leaks)
*   Improper disposal of    *   Proper disposal of     *   Contractor
construction debris       construction wastes
*   Destruction of        *   Use chance find          *   Pls/Archeology
historical sites          procedures and               department
*   Risk of damage to         coordinate with
archaeological sites      appropriate agency
18/04/01 - Page 25 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Rehabilitation of schools   .   Improper disposal of    *   Proper disposal of solid   Pls/Municpality
wastes                    wastes
*   Priority given to       PIs/community
rehabilitation of toilets
*   Installation of sanitation
(cesspools)
Rehabilitation of health   .   Improper disposal of    .   containerize infectious    Pls/community
centers                     medical wastes            wastes
*   Public health           Ministry of Health
awareness
Irrigation and drainage    .   Water quality      *   Monitoring of water     Ministry of Energy
degradation in ponds     quality                  and Water
and reservoirs
*   Clogging of canals     mamteratnc                 Pls/ communitO
from weeds/sediments     maintenance plan
*   Inefficient water flow    *   Proper design of    Contractor/Pls
because of heavy         canals and provision
sedimentation            of access for weed and
sediments remQyaL
*   Degradation of water   .   Control of agrochemical   M ty of
systems receiving        use                      Ministre of
irrigation waters by                              Agr     re/commu
nutrients,                                        nity
agrochemical and salts
6.6    Training Program  and Capacity Building
Environmental expertise within the implementing and executing bodies will be strengthen.
Training programs will designed and implemented with the assistance of a local or intemational
expert and will target two levels:
(i)     PMT and PIs: At the initiation of the PCD, a one day workshop will be provided to the
staff of the PMT and Pls to raise environmental awareness and to clarify the specific
environmental requirements related to design and implementation of the CDP.
A three days workshop will then be provided to the PMT environmental specialist and to
the environmental specialist/consultants of the Pls and will cover the following topics:
-   EIA techniques
-   Screening projects for environmental review
-   Use of practical checklists
-   Best environmental practices in design and implementation of projects
-   Effective implementation of mitigation measures
-   Project supervision
-   Monitoring and evaluation
18/04/01 - Page 26 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
(ii)    Local NGOs and Contractors: Training would  be provided through  I or 2 days
workshop for local NGOs and contractors, focusing on public awareness, case studies of
environmental issues experienced in similar projects, use of environmental guidelines and
implementation of mitigation measures.
6.7     Environmental Monitoring
Environmental Monitoring will be the responsibility of the PIs and will include:
-   Compliance monitoring during construction
-   Monitoring of significant impacts during the operation of the subproject.
The Environmental specialist of the PMT will also conduct periodic monitoring by visiting the
sites of the various programs at least twice a year.
Monitoring indicators shall be developed for both the construction and the operation phase of the
subprojects. Monitor of construction activities will have to ensure that mitigation measures of
construction impacts are being implemented properly, while the monitoring of operation is to
ensure that no unforseen negative impacts are arising. Typical examples of monitoring plans are
given in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2: Typical Examples of Monitoring Plan for the Operation of Different Subprojects
Sub-project           Monitoring Indicators         Responsibility                    Frequency
Roads rehabilitation    *   Operating drainage      *   NGOs in close coordination    Semi-annual
channels                      with local community         assessment
d   No visible negative impacts
on surrounding habitat
Improvements to       *   Distribution network      *   NGOs in close coordination    Semi-annual
Water Supply and          without leaks                  with local community         assessment
Sanitation Facilities    *   No leakage or overflows of
manholes or drains
*   Water Quality Monitoing   *   Ministry of Health and        Semi-annual
Ministry of Energy and Water  assessment
Irrigation and        *   Irrigation network without   *   NGOs in close coordination  Semi-annual
drainage                  leaks                          with local community         assessment
*   Drainage channels clean
and properly maintained
*   Water quality parameters  *   Testing by Ministry of Health   Semi-annual
(pH, COD. BOD, SS)            and Ministry of Energy and    assessment
Water
Rehabilitation of    *   Toilet facilities clean and  *   NGOs in close coordination  Semi-annual
schools                  functioning properly            with local community and     assessment
*   Drinking water faucets         appropriate municipality
clean and safe from
18/04/01 - Page 27 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
contamination
Rehabilitation of  .  Medical wastes separated in  .  Ministry of Health in close    Semi-annual
health centers         proper containers          coordination with local   assessment
Availability of guidelines  community
for proper disposal of
medical wastes
6.5 . -Cost Estimates
The implementation requirements at the program and subproject level will be included as part of
the proposed project component No.4 "Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation". Out of
the US$ 4.0 million allocated for this component, an estimated amount of US$ 380,000 -will be
allocated for meeting the environmental requirements of the CDP as detailed in Table 6.3 and in
accordance with the schedule given in Table 6.4.
Table 6.3: Cost Estimates
Component                                 Qty            Unit Rate   Total Cost in
US$       Thousands US$
Program Management
PMT Environmental Specialist              5 years       36000/year              180
Assessment of major environmental issues in    3 MM     5000/month              15
the five Mohafaza/govemates
Evaluation of program                     2 MM          5000/month              10
Subtotal                                                                       205
EA Preparation/Sunervision
Short term consultants                    8 MM          5000/month              40
Laboratory Testing and Monitoring                                               80
Subtotal                                                                        120
Training and Worshops:
PMT and PIs:
- One day workshop on the use and application
of manual                                 5 workshops  3000                     15
- Three days workshop                     2 workshops  8000                     16
Awareness Workshopsfor Local NGOs and
Contractors                               5 workshops  8000                     40
Subtotal                                                                        71
Monitoring and evaluation at the program level  2 MM    8000                    16
Operation materials and supplies                                                13
TOTAL_                                                                         425
18/04/01 - Page 28 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Table 6.4: Schedule of Implementation
Year 1    Year 2              Year 3          Year 4    Year 5
1) PIU environmental
specialist               * l_                                        _
2) Assessment of major env.
Assessment in the 5
Mohafaza/govemerates
3) Evaluation of subprojects
4) Short term consultants to                                                                  _
prepare EA
5) Testing and monitoring                                 .            _
6) Training
-   PMT / Pls               _              _
- use and application of
manual                 _
-   Awareness workshops
for local NGOs and
contractors                                                                              _
7) Monitoring and evaluation
at the program level                                            - 
18/04/01- Page 29 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
7.  REFERENCES
Davey, C. J. 2000. "Environmental Guidelines", First Municipal Infrastructure Project, Ministry
of Municipalities and Rural Affairs, Lebanon.
Graham, D. J. 1998. "Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds", World Bank Latin America
and Carribean Region, Sustainable Development Technical Paper No. 1, Washington, D.C.
Mallat, H. 1997. "Droit de l'urbanisme, de la construction, de l'environnement et de l'eau au
LibaR"-
Ministry of Public Works, Director General of Roads and Buildings. 1999. "Operational Manual
for the Establishment of an Environmental Unit", Lebanon.
World Bank. 1991. "Environmental Assessment Sourcebook". Environment Department.
Washington, D.C.
World Bank. 1994. "Roads and the Environment: A Handbook". Transportation, Water, and
Urban Development Department, Report TWU 13. Washington, D.C.
World Bank. 2000. "A Guide for the Preparation and Review of Environmental Assessment
Reports". The Middle East and North Africa Region. Rural Development, Water and
Environment Department. Washington, D.C.
18/04/01 - Page 30 of 30



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
APPENDIX A: EXISTING LEGISLATION
Appendix Al:    Existing Environmental Protection Legislation
Appendix A2:    List of Protected Natural Reserves
Appendix A3:    Standards for Drinking Water - Ministry of Environment -
Decision 52/1, 1996
Appendix A4:    Standards for Wastewater - Ministry of Environment - Decision
8/1, 2001
18/04/01 - Page Al



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix Al. Existing Environmental Protection Legislation
Protection Through Planning, Land Use and General Exploitation
Document            Date          Subject                        Responsible Ministry
Decree No. 113      09.08.1933    Mining Exploitation             Interior
Decree No. 253      08.11.1935    Quarry Exploitation            Interior
Law No.             07.01.1949    Forest Protection              Agriculture/Enviromnent
Law No.             09.11.1951    Soil Preservation              Agriculture
Law No. 60          09.09.1983    Excavation in Public Streets    Public Works
Order No. 69        09.09.1983    Urban Development               Public Works
Order No. 2/89      05.01.1989    Urban Development               Public Works
Law No. 98          09.09.1989    Excavation in Public Streets    Public Works
Law No. 58          29.05.1991    Land Expropriation              Public Works
Law No. 85          07.09/1991   Flora and Fauna Protection      Agriculture/Environment
Decree No. 10121    1992          Excavation of Sand from the    Interior
Foreshore
Decision No. 1/42    01.03.1993    Tree Cutting and Felling      Agriculture/Environment
Decree No. 2/93     20.06.1993    Quarries, Sand Pits and Coating    Environment
Plants
Law No. 360         01.08.1994   International Convention on      Environment
l___________ lBiodiversity
Decree No. 5616     06.09.1994  _Quarry Exploitation              Ireri6r/Environment
PMO Circular 6/95    13.03.1995    Excavation in Public Streets   Public Works
Law No.558          24.07.1996  l Forest Protection               Agriculture/Environment
Decision No. 185/1   07.11.1997  f Marble Quarries and Concrete  Interior
=   _ _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _    Block  Works
Protection From Pollution
Document               Date           Subject                        Responsible Ministry
Decree No. 8735        23.08.1974     Pollution from Solid and Liquid  Industry/Environment
Wastes
law No. 64              18.08.1988    Pollution from Hazardous       Industry/Environment
Wastes
Decision No. 52/1      29.07.1996     Air, Water and Soil Pollution  Hydraulics/Environmnent
Protection of Water Resources
Document               Date         Subject                           Responsible Ministry
Order No. 144          10.06.1925    Protection of Surface and Ground  Hydraulics
Water Resources
Order No. 320/26       26.05.1926    Protection of Catchment Areas    Hydraulics
Decree No. 639         26.03.1942    Protection of Nabaa Al Assal     Hydraulics
Decree N.10276         07.10 2      Spring, Faraya
f Decree No. 10276     07.10.1962    Protection Zones for Water Sources   Hydraulics
l _______________________            and  Recharge  Areas
Decree No. 14438       02.05.1970    Restrictions on the Depth of     Hydraulics
l _____________________              Unlicensed  Boreholes
Decision No. 2528/C    28.05.1996    Protection of Ground Water at El    Hydraulics
i _________________________          K neisse
Decree No. 680         15.09.1998    The Preservation and Protection of   Hydraulics
l_______________________ _____________ Boreholes
18/04/01 - Page A2



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Protection of Archaeological and Historic Sites
Document              Date          Subject                           Responsible Ministry
Law No. 166           07.11.1933    Historic and Archaeological Sites    Interior
Order No.             08.07.1939    Cultural Heritage Sites           Interior
-Decree No.             14.04.1943    Cultural Heritage Sites          Interior
Law No. 30/82         14.09.1982    World Heritage Sites              Environment
Law No. 19            30.10.1990    World Heritage Sites              Environment
Protection of the Maritime Environment
Document              Date          Subject                           Responsible Ministry
Law No. 77/67         26.11.1966    International Conventions on      Environment
Marine Protection
Decree No. 126        30.06.1977    International Conventions on      Environment
Marine Protection
Laws No. 292/295      22.02.1994    International Conventions on      Environment
I___________   Marine Protection
Protection of Specific Sites
Document            Date         Subject                                   Responsible
Ministrv
Law No.127/1        23.10/1991   Establishing a Natural Reserve from Maasser   Agriculture
El Chouf to Dahr El Baidar, Mount, Lebnton,
including public areas in Maasser El Chouf,
Barouk, Ain Zhalta and Ain Dara
Law 121             09.03/1992  Establishing a Natural Reserve in Horch    Environment
l __________________             Ehden
Law No. 21/1         12.02.1992   Establishing a Natural Reserve in Kherbet  AgricultureiEnviron
Sam and Wadi El Zabadi-Qaza, Bent Jbeil,  ment
=________  |included public areas in surrounding villages
Law No. 152/1        15.11.1992 1 Establishing a Natural Reserve in Hbeline  Agriculture
Decision No. 15/1    05.10.1995   ProhibitiOn of change of use around Faqra  Environment
i_________  Bridge, Kesrouane
Decision No. 14/1    06.10.1995   Establishing a Natural Reserve at Karm-  Environment
Chbat, Qoubaiyat
Decision No. 34/1    14.01.1997   Establishing a Natural Reserve at Nahr   Enviromnent
Ibrahim
l Decision No. 71/1    14.05.1997   Establishing a Natural Reserve in Sarafand  Agriculture/Environ
ment
Decision No. 200/1   14.11.1997  Protection of cliffs in Cadastral Plot 448 in  Environment
l_________________              |Wata Salam, Tabarja, Kesrouan
Decision No. 22/1    24.02.1998   Protection of Nahr Al Jaouz river channel  Environment
Decision No. 97/1    02.07.1998   Protection of Nahr El Kalb river channel  Environment
lDecision No. 121/    01.09.1998   Protection of Nahr Al Awaly river channel  Environment
Decision No. 130/1   01.09.1998   Protection of Nahr Beirut river channel  Environment
Decision No. 132/1   01.09.1998   Protection of Sites in the Chouf area    Environment
Decision No. 129/1   17.11.1998   Wadi Al Damour river channel             Environment
Decision No. 187/1   17.11.1998   Protection of Al Maqmel and Qornet El    Environment
Saouda mountains
Decision No. 188/1   19.11           ction of Nahr Arga river channel      Envirol nent
Decision No. 189/1   19.11.1998 1 Protection ofNahr Al Assi river channel  Environment
18/04/01 - Page A3



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix A2. List of Protected Natural Reserves
Natural Reserves Classified by Law
-   Palm Islands                               -   Horsh Ehden Forest
-  Yamrnouneh Area                             -   Bentaiel Area
-  Tannourine Cedars and Hadath El             -  Jebbeh Forest
Natural Reserves Classified By Ministerial Decree
-   Karm Chbat and Wadi El Zabadi              -   Qamrnmouaa Forest
-  Jabal El Barouk Forest                      -   Saissouk Area
-  Arz Bcharre                                 -  Qannoubine Valley
-   Batroun Maritime Area                      -   Hbeline
-  Jabal Turbol                                -   Kfarzabad
-   Bass-Tyr                                   -   Rass El Ain Coast
-   Kherbet Silm                               -   Jaj Cedars Forest
-   Bazbina Forest                             -   Qnat Forest
-   Bkassine-Jezzine Forest                    -   Ain Hkailate-Karm - El Mohr-Qomet -
-   El Kif Forest                              -   Qaryet El Sfmet Forest
-   Tyr Maritime Wetlands                      -   Ras El Chaqaa-Hannouch
-  Aammiq Wetlands
Areas Conserved by Private Initiatives
-   Baabda Forest                              -  Aaley Animal Encounter
-   Khallet Khazem                             -   Harissa area
Areas Consideration for Future Protection
-  Fneidek- Quercus Cerris Forest              -  Assi
-   Sir El Dinniyeh                            -   Bchaale
-  Qornet Al Saouda                            -   Hjoula and Haqel
-  Aaqoura Plateau                             -  Nahr Ibrahim Valley
-  Nahr El Kalb Valley                         -   Pigeon Rocks, Beirut
-   Yahfoufa                                   -   Balou Ayha
-  Jabal El Sheikh                             -  Balhoun Forest
-  Nahr El Damour Valley                       -   Qasmieh Valley
- Jeiita Grotto
18/04/01 - Page A4



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix A3. Standards for Drinking Water - Ministry of Environment - Decision
52/1, 1996
ORGANOLEPTIC, PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PARAMETERS
GUIDELINE          MAXIMUM
PARAMETER                GU E               ADMISSIBLE         UNIT
VALUE         CONCENTRATION
Colour                                  1                  15          ALPHA
Turbidity                              0.4                 4           JTU
Taste    0 @12C            2 @ 12-C
Taste                             0  @ 25C          3 @ 250C
u  @  12C        2 @  12C
LOdour                              0 @ 25C           3 ( 25C
Temperature                             12                 25          C
IElectrical Conductivity (20'C)         400                  -          PS/cm
Hydrogen Ion Activity                6.5 - 8.5             9           pH units
Calcium                                100                 -           mg/l
Magnesium                               30                 50          mg/l
Sodium                                  20                150          mg/l
Potassium                               10                 12      ,  mg/l
Chloride                                25                200          mg/l
I Nitrate (NO3)                          25                 50          mg/_
Nitrite (NO2)                                              0           mg/l
Iron                                   50                 200          ue/l
Ammonium (NH4)                         0.05               0.5          mg/l
Kjeldahl Nitrogen                                          I           mg/l
Total Solids (@180'C)             _                       1500         mg/l
Oxidability                             2                  5           mg/l
Fluoride                                              1.5    8-12g/l
________________________   ____________ 10.7 @ 25-300C    m/
HEAVY METALS AND TRACE ELEMENTS
MAXIMUM
PARAMETER                GUIDELINE          ADMISSIBLE         UNIT
VALUE         CONCENTRATION
a Aluminum                             0.05               0.2          m/l
Arsenic                            -_50
Barium                                  I                  -            g/l
Cadmium                                                    5           u/
Chromium                                                   50         ,ug/l
Copper                                 0.1                 I           mg/l
Cyanide                             _       _50                        utg/l
i Lead                                                      50          utg/l
Manganese                               20                 50         uLg/l
Mercury                                                    1           ug/l
Nickel                                                     50          n/l
Phosphorous (as P205)                  0.4                 5           mg/l
Selenium                                                   10          L    _g/l
18/04/01 - Page A5



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Silver                                                    10          pg/l
Antimony                                -                 10 to/
Zinc                                   0.1                5           ml
HYDROCARBONS AND PESTICIDES
MAXIMUM
GUIDELINE      ADMISSIBLE
PARAMETER                  VALUE        CONCENTRAT          UNIT
ION
Chlorinated Organic Pesticides                         0.1       gg/i
Other Chlorinated Organic               1               -         pg/I
Compounds
Phosphated Organic Pesticide                           0.1       4g/l
Carbamides                                             0.1        1g/l
Herbicides                              -              0.1       pLg/l
Fungicides                                             O.1 .g/1
PCB                                                    0.1        n/
PCT                                      _             0.1        Ig/
Phenols                                 -              0.5
Surface Agents                                         0.2
Dissolved Hydrocarbons                                  10         1
Aldrin                                  -              0.03
Dieldrin                                -              0.03       ugtl
Hexachloro-Benzene                      -              0.1        n/l
3,4 Benzopyrene                         -              0.01      pg/l
11,12 Benzofluoranthene                 -       |      0.2       p I
3.4 Benzopyrene                |                j      0.01
Total Measured Substances       .       -              0.5        u/
BACTERIOLOGICAL PARAMETERS
MAXIMUM
GUIDELINE  ADMISSIBLE    SML
PARAMETER                GUIDELINE      CONCENTRAT   SAMPLE
VALUE  ~     ION        VOLUME
Total Coliforns                        0                0 0      100 ml
Faecal Streptococcus                   0                 0       100 ml
Sporlutaed Sulphite-Reducing           0                1        20ml
Faecal Coliforms                       0                0        100 ml
Salmonella                             0                0        5 litres
Thermnotolerant Coliforms              0                0         100 ml
Pathogenic Staphylococcus              0                0        100 ml
Faecal Bacteriophagus                  0                0        50 ml
Intestinal Virus                       0                0        10 litres
18/04/01 - Page A6



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix A4. Standards for Wastewater - Ministry of Environment - Decision 8/1,
2001
Environmental Limit Values (ELV) for Waste Water Discharged into the Sea
Parameter                                    ELV for existing facilities    ELV for new facilities
IpH                                                     5 -9                        6-9
Temperature                                            350C                         350C
| BOD5 mgO2/L                                            100                          25
i COD .mgO2/L                                            250                         125
I Total Phosphorous mgP/L                                16                           10
Total Nitrogen mgN/L                                    40                           30
Suspended Solids mg/L                                   200                          60
AOX                                                      5                           5
Detergents mg/L                                          3                           3
Coliform Bacteria 37C in 100 m12                      2,000                       2,000
i Salmonellae                                          absence                     absence
Hydrocarbons mg/L                                       20                           20
Phenol index mg/L                                       0.3                         0.3
I Oil and Grease mg/L                                    30                           30
Total Organic Carbon (TOC) mg/L                         75                           75
I Ammonia (NH4I) mg/L                                    10                           10
Silver (Ag) mg/L                                        0.1                         0.1
Aluminium (Al) mg/L                                     10                           10
Arsenic (As) mg/L                                       0.1                         0.1
Barium (Ba) mg/L                                        10                           2
Cadmium (Cd) mg/L                                       0.2                          0.2
Cobalt (Co) mg/L                                        0.5                          0.5
Chromium total (Cr) mg/L                                 2                           2
Hexavalent Chromium (CrV[) mg/L                         0.5                          0.2
Copper total (Cu) mg/L                                  1.5                          1.5
Iron total (Fe) mg/L                                     5                           5
Mercury total (Hg) mg/L                                0.05                         0.05
Manganese (Mn) mg/L                                      I
Nickel total (Ni) mg/L                                   2                           0.5
Lead total (Pb) mg/L                                    0.5                         0.5
Antimony (Sb) mg/L                                      0.3                          0.3
Tin total (Sn) mg/L                                      2                           2
Zinc total (Zn) mg/L                                     10                          5
Active Cl2 mg/L                                          1
1 Sum of Kjeldahl-N (organic N + NHI), NO3-N. N02-N
2  For dischargers in close distance to a bathing water a more strict ELV could be necessary.
18/04/01 - Page A7



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Parameter                                    ELV for existing facilities   ELV for new facilities
Cyanides (CN)mg/L                                       0.1                         0.1
Fluoride (F-) mg/L                                      25                           25
Nitrate (NO3) mg/L                                      90                           90
Phosphate (PO43-) mg/L                                   5                           5
Sulphate (SO42-) mg/L                                  1,000                        1,000
Sulphide (S2D)mgIL                                       5                           1
Environmental Limit Values (ELV) for waste water discharged into surface water
Parameter                                    ELV for existing facilities   ELV for new facilities
pH                                                     5 --9                        6 -9
Temperature                                            300C                         300C
BOD5 mgO2/L                                             100                          25
COD mgO2/L                                              250                         125
Total Phosphorous mgP/L                                 16            -       <      10
Total Nitrogen, mgN/L3                                  40                           30
Suspended Solids mg/L                                   200                          60
AOX                                                      5                           5
Detergents mg/L                                          3                           3
Coliform Bacteria 37C in 100 m14                      2,000                       2,000
Salmonellae                                           absence                     absence
Hydrocarbons mg/L                                       20                           20
Phenol index mg/L                                       0.3                         0.3
Oil and Grease mg/L                                     30                           30
Total Organic Carbon (TOC) mg/L                         75                           75
Ammonia (NH44) mg/L                                      10                          10
Silver (Ag) mg/L                                        0.1                         0.1
Aluminium (Al) mg/L                                      10                          10
Arsenic (As) mg/L                                       0.1                          0.1
Barium (Ba) mg/L                                         2                           2
I Cadmium (Cd) mg/L                                      0.2                         0.2
Cobalt (Co) mg/L                                        0.5                         0.5
iChromium total (Cr) mg/L                                 2
Hexavalent Chromium (CrVl) mg/L                         0.5                         0.2
Copper total (Cu) mg/L                                  1.5                         0.5
Iron total (Fe) mg/L                                     5                           5
Mercury total (Hg) mg/L                                0.05                         0.05
Manganese (Mn) mg/L                                      I                           I
3 Sum of Kjeldahl-N (organic N + NH3), N03-N, N02-N
4  For discharges in close distance to bathing water a more strict ELV could be necessary.
18/04/01 - Page A8



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Parameter                                       ELV for existing facilities      ELV for new facilties
Nickel total (Ni) mglL                                       2                            0.5
Lead total (Pb) mg/L                                        0.5                           0.5
Antimony (Sb) mg/L                                          0.3                           0.3
Tin total (Sn) mg/L                                          2                             2
Zinc total (Zn) mg/L                                         5                             5
Active Cl, mg/L                                              1                             1
Cyanides (CN-)mg/L                                          0.1                           0.1
Fluoride (F-) mg/L                                          25                             25
Nitrate (NO3) mg/L                                           90                            90
Phosphate (PO43-) mg/L                                       5                             5
Sulphate (SO42-) mg/L                                      1,000                         1,000
Sulphide (S2-)mg/L                                           I                             I
Environmental Limit Values (ELV) for waste water discharged into the sewerage
system
Parameter                                    ELV for existing and new facilities
pH                                                           6-9
Temperature                                                  350C
BOD5 mgOJ/L5                                                  125
COD mgO2/L6                                                  500
Total Phosphorous mrgP/L7                                     10
Total Nitrogen, TN mg/L8                                      60
Suspended Solids mg/L                                        600
AOX                                                            5
Salmonellae                                                absence
Hydrocarbons mg/L                                             20
Phenol index mg/iL                                             5
Oil and Grease mg/L                                           50
Total Organic Carbon (TOC) mg/L                              750
| Ammonia (NH4+) mg/L9
| Silver (Ag) mg/L                                            0.1
IAluminium (Al) mg/L                                           10
5  Assuming an outlet concentration of 25 mg/I and a cleaning capacity of 80%
6  Assuming an outlet concentration of 125 mg/L and a cleaning capacity of 75%
7  Assuming an outlet concentration of 2 mgll and a cleaning capacity of 80%
8  Assuming connection to a biological waste water treatment plant. Performance of waste water treatment plant related
to the concentration in the inflow: 70 - 80%, ELV at outlet: 15 mg/L N
9  Assuming connection to a biological waste water treatment plant. Performance of waste water treatment plant related
to the concentration in the inflow: 70 - 80%, ELV at outlet: 15 mg/l N
18/04/01 - Page A9



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Parameter                                 ELV for existing and new facilities
Arsenic (As) mglL                                        0.1
Barium (Ba) mg/L                                          2
Cadmium (Cd) mg/L                                        0.2
Cobalt (Co) mg/L                                          I
Chromium total (Cr) mg/L                                  2
Hexavalent Chromium (CrVl) mg/L                          0.2
Copper total (Cu) mg/L1I                                  1
Iron total (Fe) mg/L                                      5
Mercury total (Hg) mg/L                                  0.05
Manganese (Mn) mg/L
Nickel total (Ni) mg/LI 1                                 2
Lead total (Pb) mg/L12                                    I
Antimony (Sb) mg/L                                       0.3
Tin total (Sn) mg/L                                       2
Zinc total (Zn) mg/L 13                                   10
Cyanides (CN-)mg/L                                         I
Fluoride (F-) mg/L                                        15
Nitrate (NO3) mg/L14
Phosphate (P043-) mg/L 15
Sulphate (SO42-) mg/L                                   1,000
Sulphide (S2-)mg/L                                        1
10 ELV of 0.5 mg/L must be kept at the outlet of WWTP.
11ELV of 0.5 mg/L must be kept at the WVVWTP outlet.
12 ELV of 0.5 mg/L must be kept at the WWTP outlet.
13 ELV of 5 mg/L must be kept at the WWTP outlet.
14 ELV for total nitrogen has to be kept
15 ELV for total phosphor has to be kept
18/04/01 -Page A10



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix A5: Evaluation of the Lebanese EIA system (METAP EIA Institutional
Strengthening Project)
1. Introduction
An evaluation of the Lebanese EIA system was conducted as part of the second phase of the METAP EIA
Institutional Strengthening project. The evaluation was carried out in February 2000, by Rachid Nafti of
the Centre International des Technologies de l'Environnement de Tunis (CITET) and Clive George of the
EIA Centre, University of Manchester.
Warm appreciation is expressed to Rola Nasreddine, National Focal Point for EIA, Ramez Kayal, Project
Manager Of the Unit of Planning and Programming (UPP) of the Ministry of Environment, and Manal
Hatem-Moussallem of the UPP, for their assistance with arranging the evaluation, for their participation in
all meetings, for their invaluable contributions to the discussions, and for their generous hospitality.
Many valuable comments and suggestions on the introduction of environmental assessment in Lebanon
were made by all of the participants. These contributions are greatly appreciated.
2. Status of EIA in Lebanon
Provisions for EIA are included in the draft Law on Protection of the Environment (the Environment
Code), which has yet to be enacted. An EIA decree is being drafted byi tte Unit of Planning and
Programming, under a METAP project funded by the World Bank.
A number of EIA studies have been carried out for internationally funded projects, under the procedures of
the funding agencies. Many of these projects have been coordinated by the Council for Development and
Reconstruction (CDR). Others have been managed by the relevant line ministries. The Ministry of Public
Works established an Environment Unit in 1997, with support from the World Bank, to coordinate EIA
studies for the ministry, and to monitor and supervise environmental analysis of roads projects.
Many of the internationally funded EIA studies in Lebanon have been done by local consultancy
organizations. which have accumulated significant expertise. In addition, a small number of EIA studies
have been carried out voluntarily by private sector investors, at the request of the Ministry of Environment..
4. Comparison of the Lebanese EIA system with international norms
The Lebanese EIA system is summarized in Table 1, along with the corresponding features of the World
Bank EA procedures (OP 4.01) and the European Union EIA Directive (97/1 1/EC).
Compatibility with the procedures of the World Bank and other development funding agencies is desirable,
both to facilitate the preparation of EIA reports for funded projects, and to facilitate programmatic or sector
loans. Individual EIA studies may be required for sub-projects under such loans, administered through the
national EIA system. The EIA procedures of other international banks and donor agencies are generally
similar to those of the World Bank. so that compatibility with WB procedures would achieve a high degree
of compatibility with these also.
For comparative purposes, the requirements of the European Union directive are also listed in the table.
This is another example of international EIA practice, framed around decision-making mechanisms
appropriate to national or local government, rather than those used by banks and aid agencies. The
directive has been framed in such a way as to meet the individual needs of a large number of different
countries, with diverse decision-making mechanisms.
18/04/01 - Page All



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
The table also indicates possible changes to the Lebanese EIA system, which would be necessary to
achieve compatibility with the WB procedures and consistency with the EU directive. The following
paragraphs identify ways in which this might be achieved. More detailed recommendations for changes to
the draft ETA decree are presented in Annex 1.
Enabling legislation for EIA (item 1)
The draft Law  on Protection of the Environment should be enacted, with suitable
provisions for EIA.
Detailed legislation for EIA (item 2)
The draft EIA directive should be finalized and issued, without changes that materially reduce its
compatibility with WB or EU requirements.
General and specific guidelines (item 6)
General guidelines on implementation of the EIA system should be developed, in accordance with the final
version of the EIA directive. Pending development of more comprehensive sectoral guidelines, reference
may be made to internationally recopnized guidelines such as those of the World Bank.
Method of co-ordination with pollution control approval and regulation (item 14)
For compatibility with WB, the relationship between EIA and existing permitting processes should be
clarified, and pollution control measures should be specified in greater detail, for example by reference to
the Bank's Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook.
Screening method (item 16)
The screening lists in Annexes I and 2 of the draft directive need to be finalized.
Requirements for non-technical summary (item 19)
In finalizing the EIA directive, the requirement for the executive summary to be presented in non-technical
terms should be clarified.
Requirements for transboundary impacts (item 22)
For compatibility with WB, regulations should specify the study of transboundary impacts.  For
consistency with EU, this should be defined in more detail, including provisions for consultation.
Requirements for global impacts (item 23)
For compatibility with WB, the global impact requirements of OP 4.01 should be included in the
regulations. This would more than satisfy the EU requirement.
Expertise for conducting EIA (item 30)
For compatibility with WB, procedures should be defined for obtaining the advice of a panel of
internationally recognized experts for major projects or major issues.
18/04/01 - Page A12



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
The World Bank's additional requirement, for independent expertise for all EIA studies, can be satisfied by
developing a strong review system. For consistency with EU, this requirement should not extend to
requiring the EIA study team to be independent of developers and their design teams.
5. Conclusions and recommendations
The UPP and the Ministry of Environment have made excellent progress in preparing the EIA decree, in
readiness for enactment of the Environmental Code. The discussions which were facilitated during the
evaluation generated many suggestions for further improving the first draft of the EIA decree. These are
summarized in Annex 1.
In parallel; the Ministry of Environment has begun to obtain valuable experience of introducing EIA, with
the voluntary support of a small number of investors.
Fairly extensive experience of implementing EIA for projects funded by intemational agencies, such as the
World Bank, has been built up by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR). This is
supported by similar experience within certain line ministries, notably the Ministry of Public Works.
Several Lebanese consultancy organizations have undertaken EIA studies for intemationally funded
projects, and have built up a considerable body of experience. Similarly, significant capacity to support
EIA has been developed in several NGOs.
There are two main barriers to implementing EIA in Lebanon beyond its currenf status:
* enactment of the Environment Code and the EIA decree
* building institutional capacity in the Ministry of Environment
Enactment of environmental legislation
The Ministry of Environment does not yet appear to have sufficient strength within the Lebanese
government to push through environmental legislation on its own, without the support of other ministries.
Responsibility for approval of development projects rests with other ministries and local government
bodies, for whom the promotion of investment in Lebanese development is the priority. These government
bodies have their own mechanisms for taking environmental matters into account.
Environmental legislation which gives the MoE major powers over other govemment bodies may be
difficult to enact. Legislation framed in such a way as to support other ministries in the discharge of their
own environmental responsibilities may carry less weight in the short term, and might preclude the
inclusion of certain features of intemational practice in EIA. However, in the longer term, this may be
more effective than taking a confrontational approach.
In either case, there is a limit to the extent to which EIA can be further developed in Lebanon until enabling
legislation is enacted.
EIA capacity in the Ministry of Environment
The bulk of the work carried out to date in preparation for a Lebanese EIA system has been undertaken by
units such as the UPP, funded by intemational organizations, and attached to the MoE rather than being
part of it. In advance of the enactment of the EIA decree, an EIA unit or equivalent will need to be
established within the MoE, with a senior member of staff at its head, and adequate support staff. All of
these staff will need to devote the major part of their time to EIA, and will need to develop sufficient
expertise and experience to undertake high level negotiations with other government bodies and
developers.
18/04/01 - Page A13



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Additionally, before the EIA decree can become fully effective, capacity for monitoring and enforcement
of project approval conditions needs to be established. This applies both to enforcement of construction
requirements, and ongoing enforcement of pollution permits and other regulatory controls. The MoE will
need either to establish its own team of inspectors, with legal powers, or cooperate closely with those other
ministries and local government bodies, which already have monitoring and enforcement capacity.
To be sustainable, all of this capacity will need to be funded by national or local government. Mechanisms
for doing so, for example through permitting charges and/or application fees, will need to be developed, in
consultation with other relevant government bodies.
The current EU LIFE project for SPASI is addressing monitoring issues. Before the EIA decree is enacted,
a strategy for monitoring and enforcement will need to be agreed, in addition to establishing the necessary
capacity for administering the EIA system.
General recommendations
During the evaluation, a good understanding of environmental issues was expressed by the representatives
of several other government bodies, together with an encouraging degree of willingness to cooperate with
the MoE.
It is recommended that, both in finalizing the EIA decree and addressing the issues discussed above, the
MoE pursue this cooperative approach, as far as it is able to, without compromising the discharge of its
own responsibilities for environmental protection.
Immediate actions
1. Continue to work with other ministries to secure support for the Environment Code and achieve
enactment.
2. Recruit and train permanent members of MoE staff dedicated to EIA.
3. Obtain copies of all past EIA reports prepared for internationally funded projects.
4. Establish an advisory role in the preparation of ElAs for all present and future ElAs for internationally
funded projects, particularly in respect of Terms of Reference and review.
5.  Continue with setting up an advisory committee on EIA  involving line ministries and local
government, and linked to the EU LIFE programme. Through this:
define links between EIA and existing permitting systems, avoiding duplication
define links into the IDAL permitting process
encourage establishment of environment units in line ministries and local government, responsible
for EIA
6. Consult with line ministries and local government to finalize the draft EIA decree (see separate report).
7. Secure support for amendments to other ministries' legislation, for compatibility with EIA decree.
Actions when the Environment Code has been enacted
I . Prepare and issue general guidelines on management of the EIA process.
2.  Programme of awareness raising and training for public and private sector developers and NGOs.
3. Consult with line ministries and local government to define the responsibilities of each for monitoring.
Secure government finance for monitoring, and establish appropriate staffing and procedures.
18/04/01 - Page A14



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Table 1. Summary of the Lebanese EIA System and Comparison with World Bank and European Union requirements
Lebanese EIA system     World Bank procedures         EU directive              changes for           changes for
compatibility with WB   consistency with
EU
EIA LEGISLATIONAND
PROCEDURES
I   Enabling legislation for EIA    none (draft Law on       OP 4.01 1999              Directive 97/1 1/EC 1997   Enact the draft Law    As WB
Protection of the
Environment)
2    Detailed legislation for EIA   draft EIA Operational    BP/GP 4.01 1999           Defined by each member   Finalize and issue the    As WB
Directive                                         state                     draft EIA directive
3    Formal provisions for SEA      included in scope of draft  sectoral and regional EA    None
directive, but without   for relevant loans (17)
detail
4    Local government EIA           none                                               Optional
legislation or procedures
5    Sectoral authority EIA         Ministry of Public Works                           Optional
legislation or procedures      procedures                                        A
6    General and specific guidelines    none                  EA sourcebook and       'Optional                 Develop guidelines.
updates 1991-1998.
Pollution Prevention and
Abatement lHandbook
. ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   ~    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     1 '999._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
ADMINISTRATION OF EIA M999
Main administrative body lor   Ministry ol IEnvirorinient   Wit Environment       D)elined by eacih meiliber
EIA                                                     Department                state
18/04/01 - Page A15



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Lebanese EIA system     World Bank procedures          EU directive               changes for           changes for
'compatibility with WB   consistency with
EU
8    Competent authority for         MoE                      WB appraisal mission      Defined by each member
environmental acceptability                                                        state
9    Review body for EIA             MoE                      WB regional environment  Not defined
sector unit and task team
(BP)
10   Sectoral authority             Submit applications.      N/A                       N/A
responsibilities               Issue permits, subject to
EIA consent from MoE
II   Local government               As sectoral authorities   N/A                       N/A
responsibilities
12   Other bodies responsible for   Sectoral authorities and    N/A                     N/A
planning approval              local government
13   Method of co-ordination with   Advisory committee.       Close liaison with        Statutory consultation
other planning approval bodies    Involvement in scoping  national government      (Art 6)
and review.
14   Method of co-ordination with   Other government          Pollution prevention and    Separate EUJ Directive,  Clarify overlapping
pollution control approval and  agencies have            abateimieint measures     but procedure may be      responsibilities f1 or
regulation                     responsibilities,         included in scope (116)   integrated (Art 2a)       pollutants or processes
Coordination not defined.                                                   for which national
standards have not yet
been developed, make use
of the World Bank's
Pollution Prevention and
Abatement Handbook
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ._____________________  v_____________________         19 99.
STAGES OF EIA
Screening                                                                                              . .  .
18/04/01 - Page A16



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Lebanese EIA system      World Bank procedures           EU directive               changes for            changes for
compatibility with WB   consistency with
EU
15   Screening categories            i) full EIA                Cat A - proponent         One category for full
ii) simpler Impact        responsible for full EIA   EIA:
Statement                 Cat B - WB responsible    Annex I - full EIA
for less intensive analysis   mandatory;
(118)                     Annex 11 - screening for
full EIA
16   Screening method                Lists with thresholds and   Individual screening for    Annex I - mandatory     Finbalise screening lists  As IIB
criteria                  significance, with         Annex 11 - individual
illustrative lists (Bl', GP1)   screening for
significance, or standard
significance criteria,
based on criteria in
Annex III
SCOPING
17   Scopinig method                 Scoping by proponeit to   General list (113), lield  Ceneral list, individual
guidelines in Annex, to be  visit by W13, approval of   scoping by proponent
agreed by Mot             ToR by W13 (BP)            (Art 3), optional scoping
opinion of competent
authority and statutory
consultees (Art 5), no
scoping restriction by
. ______________________                                                              ToR     (Art  5)
CONTENT OF EIA STUDY                                                                     T,,
18/04/01 - Page A17



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelinles
Lebanese EIA system     World Baniik procedures        ElJ directive              changes for           changes for
'compatibility with WB   consistency with
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                   EU
18   Content of EIA report          Guideline in Annex,       - executive summary       - project description
including all WB         - policy, legal and       - outline of alternatives
components                 administrative          - baseline data
framework              - prediction and
- project description      assessment of
- baseline data            environmental impacts
- prediction and         - mitigation measures
assessment of           - non-technical summary
environmental impacts   - indication of difficulties
and mitigation           in assessment
- analysis of alternatives   (Art 5, Annex 4)
- environmental
management plan
- list of EIA report
preparers
- record of consultations
- references and
supporting data
(Annex B)
19   Requirements for non-technical   executive summary       Executive summary         Non-technical summary    Clarify requirement that  As WB
summary                                                  (Annex B),               (Art 5)                    summary should be non-
understandable (I16)                              technical
20   Requirements for considering   required in Annex         Analysis required (2,     tudy required (Art 5)
alternatives                                             Annex B)
21   Requirements for environmental  described in Annex       EMP required (Annex B),  None
management plans                                         EMP specified (Annex C)
22   Requirements for transboundary   none                    To be taken into account   Assessment and           Add requirementfor        As WB. Also
impacts                                                  (113)                     consultation required (Art  transboundary impacts,   include
7)                        as WI?I                  consultation.
18/04/01 - Page A18



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Lebanese EIA system     World Bank procedures          EU directive               changes for          changes for
tompatibility with WB   consistency with
EU
23   Requirements for global impacts  none                    Impacts on climate        Unclear - cumulative      Add requirementfor        Include study of
change, ozone-depletion,   impacts to be assessed,    global impacts, as IVB.    cumulative
international water      but not specifically global                         effects
pollution and biodiversity  (Annex 4)
to be taken into account
(3)
REVIEW, PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND
DECISION-MAKING
24   Method of checking quality of    comparison with ToR     Comparison with ToR       Relevance to the specific
EIA reports submitted                                    (BP)                      characteristics of the
project, the environmental
features likely to be
affected, and current
knowledge and methods
of assessment (Art 5)
25   Requirements for public         Scoping requirements     a) consult affected groups  Public access to EIA
participation                   defined in Directive and    and NGOs before        report, and opportunity to
Annex. Public access to   finalizing ToR           comment (Art 6)
EIA report.              b) public and NGO access
to and comment on draft
EA report (1l 15)
Arrangements for access to EIA    Available at MoE       Made available at a       Detailed arrangements
26  reports                                                   public place accessible to   #ust be specified by
affected groups and     'inember states (Art 6)
NGOs (1I7)
27   Decision-making method          Decision by MoE, with    Integrated with appraisal   Competent authority
involvement of           of project design and     consults statutory
stakeholders             economic analysis (BP)    consultees (Art 6, 8),
publication of'reasons for
decision (Art 9)
28   Provisionls for appeal          Provisions in Directive
18/04/01 - Page A19



Community Development Project
Environmeintal Guidelines
Lebanese EIA system     World Bank procedures          EU directive        .    changes for           changes for
compatibility with WB   consistency with
EU
FoU 9w-up
29   Requirements for               MoE responsible          Reports submitted to WB   None
implementation monitoring                               by proponent,
supervision visits by WB
(120, BP)
EIA CAPACITY
30   Expertise for conducting EIA   Proponent responsible.    Independent EA experts   Proponent responsible for  international panelfor
retained by proponent,    the assessment (Art 5 andi  major issues. Strengthen
independent international   Annex 4)              review systemfor
panel for major issues                             independent review.
(14)
31   No. of ElAs conducted          Numerous for funding     -
agencies, plus a few
voluntarily.
32   Approx. no. of EIA firms and   Several local            -
individuals                    consultancies with
experience.
33   Foreign consultants used?      Sometimes                 -
34   Universities/                  Several
institutes with EA technical
expertise
35  Universities/                   none
institutes with EIA systems
expertise
36   Training provisions            Previous World Bank and   -
other programmes
37   Other EIA capacity-building    Current METAP            -
programmes                     programme, attuched to
MoE
18/04/01 - Page A20



Community Development Project
Environmental Gui(lelines
18/04/01 - Page A21



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
APPENDIX B: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND GOOD
PRACTICE PROCEDURES
Appendix Bi:   Good Practice Environmental Procedures.
Appendix B2:   Typical Construction Environmental Impacts and
Mitigation Measures
18/04/01 - Page BI



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix B1:    Good Practice Environmental Procedures.
1.    Introduction
The prevention of injury and/or illness to site personnel and the public, damage to the Works and
to public and private property, protection of the environment, and compliance with applicable
laws, shall be the primary objectives of the contractor. All work shall be carried out in a way as
to minimize disturbance and avoid dangers to the public. Selected minimum requirements are
outlined in these Good Practice Environmental Procedures with which contractors shall comply.
Given that these Procedures cannot cover every eventuality, the contractor shall be expected to
exercise good judgment in all such matters, even though not mentioned in these Procedures, and
shall take all necessary measures to meet his responsibility with respect to environmental matters.
The Contractor shall, throughout the execution and completion of the Works and remedying of
any defects therein:
*  Have full regard for the safety of all persons on Site and keep the Site and the Works in an
orderly state appropriate to the avoidance of danger to any person;
K Know and understand all laws governing his activities along with,#n site requirements and
work site hazards;
*  Take all necessary measures to protect his personnel, other persons, the general public and
the environment;
*  Avoid damage or nuisance to persons or to property of the public or others resulting from
pollution, noise or other causes arising as a consequence of carrying out the Works.
2.     Protection of the Environment
The Contractor shall comply with all environmental requirements, rules and regulations under
Lebanese laws, laid down by Lebanese Authorities or issued by the Employer or the Engineer.
Specific attention should be paid to regulations for materials, including hazardous substances or
wastes under his control. The Contractor shall not dump, release or otherwise discharge or
dispose of any such dump without the authorization of the Engineer.
Any release of a hazardous substance to the environment, whether air, water or ground must be
reported to the Engineer immediately. When releases resulting from Contractor action occur, the
Contractor shall take proper precautionary measures to counter any known environmental or
health hazards associated with such releases. These would include remedial procedures such as
spill control and containment and notification of the proper authorities.
3.     Air Pollution
18/04/01 - Page B2



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
The Contractor shall take all necessary measures to limit pollution from dust and any wind blown
materials during the Works, including dumping down with water on a regular basis during dry
climatic conditions.
The Contractor shall ensure that all trucks leaving the Site are properly covered to prevent
discharge of dust, rocks, sand, etc.
4.     Water Pollution
The Contractor shall not dispose of waste solvents, petroleum products, toxic chemicals or
solutions-in the village drainage system or watercourse, and shall not dump or bury any garbage
on the Site. He shall maintain the Site in a sanitary condition and shall remove from the Surface
of the ground all rubbish, surplus spill, and litter which may have been left on site.
All wastes shall be taken to an approved disposal facility regularly, and in accordance with the
requirements of the relevant authorities. The Contractor shall dispose of all fluids and test
pumping discharge in a manner that does not cause contamination or nuisance. He shall also be
responsible to control all run-offs, erosion, etc.
Work on or in surface water channels shall allow for the maintenan`e,%f supplies to existing
users. The Contractor shall take all reasonable measures to maintain outflow and to avoid
discolouration.
Where a temporary reduction in downstream flow, or discolouration by suspended solids from
excavations is, in the opinion of the Engineer, unavoidable, the Contractor shall make altemative
arrangements for supplying all effected users throughout the period of flow reduction or
colouration.
5.     Solid Waste
General Housekeeping:
The Contractor shall maintain the Site and any ancillary areas used and occupied for performance
of the Works in a clean, tidy and rubbish-free condition at all times.
Upon the issue of any Taking-Over Certificate, the Contractor shall clear away and remove from
the Site all Contractor's Equipment, surplus material, rubbish and temporary works of any kind,
and leave the Site in a clean condition to the satisfaction of the Engineer.
Rubbish Removal and Disposal:
The Contractor shall comply with statutory and municipal regulations and requirements for the
disposal of rubbish and waste.
The Contractor shall provide suitable metal containers for the temporary storage of waste. He
shall remove rubbish containers from site as soon as they are full. Rubbish containers shall not be
allowed to overflow. Vehicle access to rubbish containers shall be provided.
18/04/01 - Page B3



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Domestic and biodegradable waste shall be removed daily from the Site. Toxic and hazardous
wastes shall be collected separately and be disposed of in accordance with current regulations.
No waste shall be burnt on Site unless approved by the Engineer.
6.     Noise Control
The Contractor shall adopt the best practicable means of minimizing noise. For any particular
job, the quietest available plant/and or machinery shall be used.  All equipment shall be
maintained in good mechanical order and fitted with the appropriate silencers, mufflers, or
acoustic covers where applicable. Stationary noise sources shall be sited as far away as possible
from noise-sensitive areas, and where necessary acoustic barriers shall be used to shield them.
Such barriers may be proprietary types, or may consist of site materials such as bricks or earth
mould as appropriate.
Compressors, percussion tools and vehicles shall be fitted with effective silencers of a type
recommended by the manufacturers of the equipment.  Pneumatic drills and other noisy
appliances shall not be used during days of rest or after normal working hours without the consent
of the Engineer.
Working hours shall be restricted to between 8 am and 6 pm Monday tooFrriday and 8 am to I pm
Saturdays unless agreed otherwise with the Engineer and having taken into account public
holidays and other religions and social commitments.
Work outside these hours will only be permitted if it is of an emergency nature necessary for the
maintenance of existing services, the stability of the works or for public safety.
7.     Additional Requirements for Work in Public Areas
7.1    General
Public areas are defined as areas still used by or accessible to the public. These include public
roads and pavements, occupied buildings and areas outside the Contractor's boundary fencing.
Before commencing work, the contractor shall ensure that all necessary resources, including
labour, plant and materials, will be available when required and that the works will proceed
without delays and be completed in the shortest possible time. Periods of inactivity and slow
progress or delays in meeting the agreed agreement for the works, resulting from the Contractor's
failure to provide necessary resources or other causes within the control of the Contractor, will
not be accepted. In the event of such inactivity, slow progress or delays, the Contractor shall take
immediate action to rectify the situation, including all possible acceleration measures to complete
the works within the agreed program. Details of the actions and acceleration measures shall be
submitted to the Engineer for his approval.
7.2    Method Statements
18/04/01 - Page B4



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
The Contractor shall submit to the Engineer in a timely manner a method statement which will
include:
- a general description of the identified mitigation measures and methodology of how it will be
carried out;
- details of the measures and temporary works to minimize disturbance and safeguard the
public. These shall include temporary diversions, safety barriers, screens, signs, lighting and
arrangements for control of traffic and pedestrians and advance warning to be given to the
public.
Should. the method of work proposed by the Contractor be unacceptable to the Engineer, the
Contractor shall provide a revised Method Statement. The work will not be allowed to proceed
until a Method Statement has been approved by the Engineer.
7.2    Site Clearance and Removal of Topsoil
Site clearance shall be carried out over the areas to be occupied by the permanent Works before
beginning excavation or filling or other work, and shall include the clearance of all trees, stumps,
bushes and other vegetation and the removal of all boulders.
Topsoil shall mean the surface layer of soil, which by its humus content supports vegetation and
is unsuitable as a formation to roads and concrete structures or as a backfill or bedding material.
The extent and depth of topsoil that needs to be removed shall be agreed with the Engineer.
Topsoil shall be set aside for subsequent re-use or disposal as directed by the Engineer.
Materials arising from site clearance shall be disposed by the Contractor off the Site, or where
approved by the Engineer, on the site in a manner and place approved by the Engineer and in
accordance with Lebanese Environmental Regulations.
The Engineer may require individual trees, shrubs and hedges to be preserved and the Contractor
shall take all necessary precautions to prevent their damage.
The Contractor shall preserve as far as practicable all grass and other vegetation outside the limits
of trenches and permanent works and shall not unnecessarily destroy crops or any vegetation
whose removal would not be essential to his operations.
7.3    Existing Services
The Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining all existing services such as electricity,
telephone, water, sewerage and drainage. Any curtailment of these services shall only be
undertaken with the prior approval of the Engineer. The Engineers approval of proposals for
alternative services shall only be given after consultation with the effected consumers.
Any accidental curtailment of services resulting from the Contractor's activities shall be treated
as an emergency and repaired without undue delay, notwithstanding that the Engineer may not be
18/04/01 - Page B5



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
immediately available. All such accidents shall be reported in writing to the Engineer with details
of the remedial action undertaken.
No existing services shall be decommissioned or otherwise put out of use without an alternative
supply being provided to consumers to the satisfaction of the Engineer. Abandoned services shall
be disposed off-site at a site selected by the Contractor and approved by the Engineer.
The connection of new services with existing services shall only be made with the prior approval
of the local Authority and the Engineer. The Contractor shall give a minimum of 28 days notice
of his intention to connect to an existing service line and shall provide full details of such
connection. No work on site shall commence until approval in writing to make the connection
has been obtained.
7.4    Closure of Roads
The closure or partial closure of roads, pavements and other public areas will only be permitted if
approved by the Relevant Authorities and the relevany closure permit has been issued by the
Authority. The Contractor shall detail for each closure the extent of area to be closed, the reasons
and duration of the closure and, where appropriate, proposed diversion. The Contractor shall
produce the Closure Permit for inspection bt the Engineer if requested-.The Engineer shall have
the right to order cessation of the relevant work if the Contractor does not produce the Closure
Permit.
7.5    Protection of Buildings and Properties
The foundations of many older buildings may be expected to be shallow and sensitive to ground
movement. The Contractor shall take this into account when selecting his trench support system
and method of working. The Contractor shall be fully responsible for any damage to any building
resulting from inadequate or inappropriate methods of work.
When working adjacent to existing properties, the Contractor shall:
-  Advise owners or occupiers of adjoining property of the dates on which work is to be
executed;
-  Obtain permission of the owners if it is necessary to erect Temporary Works or otherwise use
adjoining property and pay all charges;
-  Take all reasonable precautions to prevent damage to adjoining property and, if any damage
is caused as a result of the execution of the Works, make good to the satisfaction of the
owner.
7.6    Protection of Archeological and Historical Sites
Excavation in sites of known archaeological interest should be avoided. Where this is
unavoidable, prior discussions must be held with the Directorate of Antiquities, who should be
given the opportunity to undertake pre-construction excavation or assign an archaeologist to log
18/04/01 - Page B6



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
discoveries as construction proceeds.
Where historical remains are unexpectedly discovered in an area not previously known for its
archaeological interest, work should be curtailed and the finds reported to the Directorate of
Antiquities, who will be the opportunity to visit the site and undertake rescue excavation.
7.7    Excavation
The requirements covering excavations will depend on the location and type of excavation and
the potential risks to the public. The following guidelines apply to all types of excavation and
shall be observed by the Contractor.
(i)    before commencing work the contractor shall:
-  Obtain an excavation permit from the relevant local authority.
-  notify the Engineer on the location and duration of the work. An excavation permit
signed by the Engineer must be issued before excavation proceeds in any work
location.
- Erect all temporary works such as barriers, warning signs, lighting, etc.
-  Have available adequate materials for temporary supports to sides of excavations and
necessary labour, plant and materials to complete the work within the shortest
possible time.
(ii)   in carrying out the works the Contractor shall, unless otherwise permitted or required by
the Engineer:
-  Not open more than one excavation within a radius of 250 meters.
-  Limit the length of trench excavation open at one time to 150 meters.
-  Maintain and alter or adapt all temporary works including supports to sides of
excavations. Ensure the stability and safety of excavations and take all measures
necessary to ensure that no collapse or subsidence occurs.
-  Remove all surplus excavated material the same day it is excavated. No excavated
material suitable for re-use shall be removed without the approval of the Engineer.
-  Complete the works, including final reinstatement within the shortest possible period.
-  Keep all excavations free from water and it shall be the Contractor's responsibility to
construct and maintain temporary diversion and drainage works, to carry out
pumping and to take all measures necessary to comply with this requirement.
-  Not deposit excavated materials on public or private land except where directed by
the Engineer or with the consent in writing of the relevant Authority or of the owner
18/04/01 - Page B7



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
or responsible representative of the owner of such land and only then in those places
and under such conditions as the relevant Authority, owner or representative may
prescribe.
7.8    Work in Confined Spaces
Where any part of the works is to be carried out in a confined space the Contractor shall:
- Display at the entrance to each confined space a sign warning of the need for oxygen and gas
levels to be monitored before access and while work is proceeding;
- Monitor the atmosphere in the confined space for oxygen depletion and dangerous gases
before any person enters it;
-  Provide suitable and sufficient breathing apparatus appropriate to the risks identified or
expected;
- If sufficient means of natural ventilation cannot be guaranteed to provide at all times an
adequate circulation of uncontaminated air, provide forced air ventilation even if oxygen or
other gas levels are shown to be safe;
- Provide suitable and sufficient gas monitoring equipment in appropriate locations, and ensure
that it is used at all times when the confined space is occupied;
- Ensure that all persons within the confined space vacate it as soon as any alarm sounds,
without waiting to record the gas level;
- Maintain a register of all alarms sounded every day, including Nil returns when appropriate,
and provide a copy of the register to the Engineer each week;
- Provide appropriate hamess. safety ropes and rescue facilities, and if practicable two means
of access top to bottom;
- Provide when work is in progress radio or telephone communication, or safe visual and oral
communication where this is appropriate and background noise levels permit;
- Ensure that all electrical tools and equipment are of the appropriate type;
- Provide appropriate protective clothing and hygiene facilities;
- Ensure that all persons entering or working in a confined space are trained and authorized to
enter.
7.9    Safety Barriers
18/04/01 - Page B8



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Safety barriers shall be provided to the perimeter of work areas and to trench and other types of
excavations and to existing openings such as manholes, drawpits and the like. When exposed to
the public, safety barriers shall be provided to both sides of trenches and around all sides of
openings.
The Contractor shall provide details of the type or types of safety barriers for each excavation for
the approval of the Engineer prior to commencing work. No work shall commence until the
safety barriers are in place.
The types of safety barrier used shall be appropriate to the particular location and the potential
risks to the public. Examples of different types of safety barriers that could be used in different
situations include:
-  Excavated material
- Non-rigid barrier of rope or florescent tape strung between metal rods driven into ground
-  Rigid barrier of timber, steel or concrete. Such barriers could be in the form of horizontal
rail(s) or sheet material secured to posts driven or concreted into the ground.
7.10   Use of explosives
Explosives shall not be used on any part of the Works without the approval of the Engineer and
permission from the relevant authorities. The Contractor shall:
-  Observe all regulations regarding proper purchasing, transportation, storage handling and use
of explosives;
-  Ensure that explosives and detonators are stored in separate and approved building, located
and clearly marked in English and Arabic "DANGER - EXPLOSIVES" to the approval of
the Engineer;
-  Ensure that all possible precautions are taken against accidental fire or explosion, and that all
explosives are kept in a proper and safe condition;
-  Ensure explosives and detonators are always transported in separate vehicles and kept apart
until the last possible moment and that metallic tools are not used to open boxes.
Blasting Procedures: the Contractor shall carry out blasting operations in a manner that will not
endanger the safety of the persons and property. Priming, charging, stemming and shot firing
shall be carried out with greatest regard for safety and in strict accordance with current
regulations. Adequate warning of blasting shall always be given and all persons cleared from the
area, before blasting take places. The Contractor shall:
-  Ensure that police and other relevant authorities are kept fully informed of the blasting
program so they may be present during blasting if they so require.
18/04/01 - Page B9



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
- Erect warning notices around the area affected indicating that blasting operations are in
progress.
- Ensure explosive charges are not excessive charged, that boreholes are properly protected,
and appropriate precautions are taken for the safety of persons and property.
- Maintain an up-to-date inventory of all explosive devices and submit a monthly report to the
Engineer, detailing the use of explosives by date and location.
18/04/01 - Page BIO



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix B2: Typical Construction Environmental Impacts and
Mitigation Measures
IMPACT                                GOOD PRACTICE MITIGATION
MEASURES
Obstruction ofAccess:
Installation of pipelines may require  Avoiding total closure of roads and maintain single
partial or total closure for the duration of   line traffic; diversion of traffic through suitable
construction, causing obstruction and  roads to the expected traffic loading; provision of
necessitating the diversion of vehicular    adequate diversion signs; minimizing lengths of
and pedestrian traffic.               open trench; expeditious completion of backfill and
reinstatement
Disruption of Services
Existing services such as water, sewerage,  Minimizing the period of disconnection; provision
electricity and telephones may be     of alternative arrangements when disruption for an
temporarily disconnected, thus causing  extended period is unavoidable.
inconvenience to consumers. They may
also be subject to accidental damage
during construction.
Increased Traffic Generation
Contractors' heavy transport and      Restriction of heavy transport and equipment
construction equipment will result in  activity to normal working hours.
increased traffic and reduced availability
of residents' parking.
Soil and Water Pollution
Improper dumping of excavated and     Collection and disposal of demolition and excavated
construction materials, chemicals,    materials at appropriate locations; collection and
solvents and oils may contaminate the soil  recycling of lubricants; precaution to avoid
as well as surface and ground waters.  accidental spills.
Runoff contamination may also affect
flora and fauna.
Soil Erosion
Soil erosion may occur from excavations,  Limitation of earth moving to dry periods so major
road cuttings and other exposed surfaces   excavations and movements of spoil are undertaken
during periods of rain. This may result in  during the summer months; protection of most
alteration to landforms and natural   susceptible surfaces with mulch; covering open
drainage and in accumulation of       trenches with plastic sheeting and supporting their
sediments in rivers and streams.      sides.
Disruption of Drainage
New municipal roads traversing surface    The excavation of cut-off trenches and diversion
water catchment areas can reduce runoff   channels may need to be constructed as Temporary
or divert natural drainage, thus causing a   Works until land re-grading, concrete culverts or
diminution in flow downstream to the  permanent diversion channels can be completed.
detriment of bank-side vegetation and
aquatic invertebrate fauna.
18/04/01 -Page BI1



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Increased Noise
High noise levels from equipment,      Restriction of w.ork to normal working hours; using
machinery and vehicles will cause      the quietest available plant/and or machinery;
disturbance to surrounding residences and  maintaining all equipment in good mechanical order
particularly impact upon hospital, schools,  and fitting them with the appropriate silencers,
churches, mosques, and upon cultural and   mufflers....
recreational facilities that require quiet
conditions for their enjoyment.
Reduced Air Quality
Dust and particulate matter from the   Keeping access and haul roads swept and sprayed
works may have a particularly serious  with water especially during the dry/hot season;
impact.upon people with respiratory    spraying of spoil heaps with water; ensuring that
problems, as well as on adjacent       vehicle and other engines are not kept running
vegetation and buildings. Increased traffic  needlessly; preventing any lorries which expel high
will increase vehicle fumes and odors, and  levels of exhaust from further work until they have
tire and exhaust particles can coat     been rectified.
roadside vegetation.
Damage to Vegetation
The removal of vegetation may affect    Minimizing loss of natural vegetation during
both local ecological communities and the  construction; replanting any damaged trees or
physical environment. The immediate    shrubs.
result is the intensification of physical
factors such as sunlight, desiccation, wind
and water erosion. This, in turn, may lead
to a paucity of food, shelter, nesting
materials and habitats for birds and small
animals.
Accumulation of Spoil
Accumulations of spoil generated from   Reusing spoil for backfill and reinstatement, or
road cuttings and other excavations are    transporting to an approved site for such disposal;
visually unsightly and may be rapidly   grading small quantities ver adjacent land where this
eroded by rainfall. The suspended solids    does not result in the deterioration of soil fertility;
content of surface runoff may increase  balancing the quantities of 'cut' and 'fill' to
and culverts and drainage channels     minimise the generation of excess spoil.
l become silted. Spoil tipped on hillsides
may be inherently unstable and subject to
slippage.
Destruction of Archaeological Sites
Excavations may result in the destruction   Avoiding   excavation   in  sites  of  known
of archaeological remains.             archaeological interest; undertaking pre-construction
excavation in sites with potential historical remains;
assigning an archaeologist to log discoveries as
construction proceeds.
18/04/01 - Page B12



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Contractors' Yards
Sites containing offices, storage areas,  Careful siting, construction and management of
maintenance shops, prefabrication yards   contractor's yards
generate domestic and industrial waste,
including spent oils and chemicals,
damaged materials and abandoned
equipment. The excavation, crushing,
washing, treatment and transport of rock
materials, and the construction of pre-cast
units will cause increased noise, air
pollution and heavy traffic.
18/04/01 - Page B13



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
18/04/01 - Page B14



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
APPENDIX C:   ENVIRONMENTAL SCREENING
Appendix Cl:    Environmental Checklist
Appendix C2:    Environmental Data Sheet (EDS)
18/04/01 - Page Cl



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
APPENDIX Cl: ENVIRONMENTAL CHECKLIST
1.  SUBPROJECT DESCRIPTION
Description of the project and its major components.
2.  SUBPROJECT LOCATION
2.1 Site Information
Name of Mohafaza, Caza and Minicipality
Community                               Land use designation, total population and density
Present Use & Development                                                                                  l
Surrounding Uses/Zoning                 North:
South:
East:
West:
Access                                   Name of roadwav if direct access, description of easement from public or
private roadway
Public Services                          Water Supply: name of district, or if private, note ';Private onsite well"
or "shared well"
Sewage: name of district or "septic system"
IOther: e.g. school, health clinic...
3.  POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS
The following checklist indicates the potential level of impact and is abbreviated as follows:
Known Sig.: Known significant environmental impacts.
Unknown Poten. Sie.: Unknown potentially significant impacts which need further review to determine
significance level.
Poten. Sig. and Mitig.: Potentially significant impacts which can be mitigated to less than significant levels.
Not Sig.: Impacts which are not considered significant.
18/04/01 - Page C2



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.1  GEOLOGIC PROCESSES
Poten.
Unknown    Signit.
Known     Poten.      and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                                  Si2niE.    Sig.      Mitig.    Signif.
a.      Exposure to or production of unstable earth conditions
such as landslides, soil creep, mudslides, ground failure
(including expansive, compressible, collapsible soils),
or similar hazards?
b.      Disruptions, displacements, compaction or over
covering of the soil by cuts, fills, or grading?                                            l
c.      Permanent changes in topography?
d.-     The destruction, covering or modification of any
unique geologic, or physical features?                                                      l
e.      Any increase in wind or water erosion of soils, either
on or off the site?
f.      Changes in deposition. or erosion or siltation which
may modify the channel of a river, or stream, or any
water body?
g.      The placement of septic disposal systems in
impermeable soils with severe constraints to disposal of
liquid effluent?
h.      Excessive grading on slopes of over 20%?                      ,_
j.      Sand or gravel removal or loss of topsoil?
i.      Vibrations, from short-term construction or long-term
operation, which may affect adjoining areas?
j.      Excessive spoils. tailings or over-burden?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01 - Page C3



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.2 WATER RESOURCES/FLOODING
Poten.
Unknown   Signit
Known     Poten.     and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                               Signi.     Sig.     Matig.    SigniE
a.      Changes in currents, or the course or direction of water
movements?                                                                              l
b.      Changes in percolation rates, drainage patterns or the
rate and amount of surface water runoff?
c.      Change in the amount of surface water in any water
body?
d. -*   Discharge into surface waters, or alteration of surface
water quality, including but not limited to temperature,
dissolved oxygen, turbidity, or thermal water pollution
(e.g.. eutrophication)?
e.      Alterations to the course or flow of flood waters, or
need for private or public flood control projects?
f.      Exposure of people or property to water related hazards
such as flooding, or accelerated runoff?
g.      Alteration of the direction or rate of flow of
groundwater?                 _                  _
h.      Change in the quantity of groundwaters, either through l
direct additions or withdrawals, or through interception
of an aquifer by cuts or excavations or recharge
interference?
i.      Overdraft or overcommitment of any groundwater
basin? Or. an increase in the existing overdraft of any
groundwater basin?                                                                      l
j.      The substantial degradation of groundwater quality
including saltwater intrusion?                                                          l
k.      Substantial reduction in the amount of water otherwise
available for public water supplies?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01 - Page C4



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.3 TRANSPORTATION/CIRCULATION
Poten.
Unknown    Signif
Known      Poten.     and        Not
Will the proposal result in:                                   SizniE.    Sig.      Mig.      SigniL
a.      Generation of substantial additional vehicular
movement (daily, peak-hour, etc.) in relation to existing
traffic load and capacity of the street system?
b.      A need for private or public road maintenance, or need
for new road(s)?
c.      Effects on existing parking facilities, or demand for
new parking?
d.      Substantial impact on alteration of present patterns of
. . .circulation or movement of people and/or goods?                                      _
e.      Increase in traffic hazards to motor vehicles, bicyclists
or pedestrians (including short-term construction and
long-term operational)?
g.      Inadequate sight distance?
general road capacity?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
4.4 AIR QUALITY
Poten.
Unknown    Signif.
WIll the proposal result in:                                  Known       Poten.     and        Not
Will the proposal result in:                                   Signif.     Sig.     Mitiy.     Signif.
a.      The violation of any ambient air quality standard, a
substantial contribution to an existing or projected air
quality violation or exposure of sensitive receptors to
substantial pollutant?                                                   _  _
b.      The creation of objectionable smoke, ash or odors?
c.      Extensive dust generation?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01 - Page C5



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.5  BIOLOGICAL RESOURCES
Poten.
Known     Poten.     and        Not
___________________________________________________  jUnknown    SagniL
|Will the proposal result in:                                SiKni     Po Sig.    Miti.    Signic
FLORA
a.      Removal or disturbance of natural vegetation?
b.      A loss or disturbance to a unique, rare or threatened
plant community?
c.      A reduction in the numbers or restriction in the range
of any unique, rare or threatened species of plants?
d.      A reduction in the extent, diversity, or quality of native
vegetation (including bush removal for fire prevention
and flood control improvements)?                  _
e.      Introduction of herbicides, pesticides, or other factors
that would change or hamper the existing habitat?                                         l
FAUNA
f.      A reduction in the diversity or numbers of animals
onsite?
g.      A deterioration of existing fish or wildlife habitat ?
e.      Introduction of barriers to movement of any resident or
migratory fish or wildlife species?                                                       l
l h.    Introduction of any factors (light, fencing, noise. :
human presence andlor domestic animals) which could
hinder the normal activities of wildlife?
Existing Plant and Animal Communities/Conditions:
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01 - Page C6



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.6  ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES
Poten.
Unknown    Signitl
Known      Poten.     and       Not
|Will the proposal result in:                                  Signio     Sig.      Mitig,    SigniL
a.      Disruption, alteration, destruction, or adverse effect on
a recorded historic or archaeological site?
b.      Disruption or removal of human remains?
c.      Increased potential for vandalizing, or sabotaging
archaeological resources?
d.      Ground disturbances in an area with potential cultural
resource sensitivity based on the location of known
historic sites?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
3.7  HISTORIC RESOURCES
Poten.
Unknown    Signit
Known      Poten.     and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                                   Si nif.    Sig.      Mitig.    Si nif
a.      Adverse physical or aesthetic impacts on a structure or
property at least 50 years old and/or of historic or
cultural significance to the community?                                               _
b.      Beneficial impacts to an historic resource by providing
rehabilitation, protection. conservation, etc.?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01 - Page C7



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.8   NOISE
Unknown    Poten.
Known     Poten.    Signif
Signif.    Sig.      and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                                                     Mitig.    Sinif.
a.      Long-term exposure of people to noise levels?
b.      Short-term exposure of people to noise levels?
C.      Project-generated substantial increase in the ambient
noise levels for adjoining areas (either day or night)?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
3.9  LAND USE
Poten.
l4kown    Signif.
Known     Poten.     and        Not
Will the proposal result in:                                 Signi     Sig.     Mitig.    Signif,
a.      Structures and/or land use incompatible with existing
land use?
b.      The induction of substantial growth or concentration of
population?
C.      The extension of sewer trunk lines or access roads with
capacity to serve new development beyond this
proposed project?
d.      The conversion of prime agricultural land to
non-agricultural use, impairment of agricultural land
productivity, or conflict with agricultural preserve
programrs?
e.      The loss of open space?
f.      An economic or social effect that would result in a
physical change?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01 - Page C8



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.10 PUBLIC FACILITIES
Poten.
Unknown    SigniL
GENERAL SERVICES-                                               Known      Poten.      and        Not
Will the proposal result in:                                     Signi.     Sig.      Midig.     Signic
a.       A need for new police protection and/or health care
services?
b.       Student generation exceeding school capacity and/or
facilities?
c.      Additional amounts of solid waste and wastewater
generation?
d.       A need for new or altered sewer system facilities
* - -  (sewer lines, lift-stations, etc.)?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
4.11  ENERGY
Poten.
Unknown    Signi.
Known      Poten.      and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                                     Signi.      Sig.     Mitig.     Signi
a.       Substantial increase in demand, especially during peak
periods, upon existing sources of energy?
b.       Requirement for the development or extension of new
sources of energy?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
3.12 FIRE PROTECTION
Poten.
Unknown    Signif.
Known      Poten.      and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                                     SigniL      Sig.     Mitig.     Signif.
a.       Introduction of development into an existing high fire
hazard area?
b.       Project-caused fire hazard?
c.      Introduction of development into an area without
adequate water pressure, fire hydrants or adequate
access for fire fighting?
18/04/01 - Page C9



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
3.13 RECREATION
Poten.
Unknown    Signif.
Known      Poten.      and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                                    SigniE      Sig.      Mit.    Signic
a.  Conflict with established recreational uses of the area?
b.       Substantial impact on the quality or quantity of existing
recreational opportunities?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
3.14 AESTHETIC/VISUAL RESOURCES
Poten.
Unknown    Signic
Known      Poten.      and       Not
Will the proposal result in:                                    Signir.     Sig.      Mitig.    Signif.
a.      The obstruction of any view open to the public or the
creation of an aesthetically offensive site open to public
view?
b.      Change to the visual character of an area?
c.      Glare or night lighting which may affect adjoining
areas?
d.      Visually incompatible structures?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01 - Page CIO



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.15 HOUSING
Poten.
Unkno     StgniL
Known       wu        and         Not
Will the proposal result in:                                   Signi     Poten.     Mitig.      Signic
a.      Loss of existing affordable dwellings through
demolition. conversion, or removal?
b.      Displacement of current residents?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
3.16 RISK OF UPSET/HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Poten.
Unknown    Signi
Known      Poten.     and        Not
Sienif.    Sig.      Mitig.    Signif.
a.      In the known history of the Project Area, have there been
any past uses, storage. or discharge of hazardous materials?
Examples of hazardous materials include, but are not limited
to, fuel or oil stored in underground tanks, pesticides,
solvents, or other chemicals.
b.      Will the proposed project involve the use, storage, or
distribution of hazardous or toxic materials?
Will the proposal result in:
c.      A risk of an explosion or the release of hazardous
substances (including, but not limited to oil. gas, pesticides,
or chemicals) in the event of an accident or upset
conditions?
d.      Possible interference with an emergency response plan or an
emergency evacuation plan?                                         .
e.      The creation of a potential public health hazard?
f.      Public safety hazards?
g.      The contamination of a public water supply?
Impact Discussion:
Mitigation Measures:
18/04/01- Page Cll



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
APPENDIX C2: ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET (EDS) for PROPOSED
PROGRAM
Geographical Location:                  Program Reference
No.:
Program Name:
Subprojects included in the Program:
Program Location: (besides geographic location, information about the key
environmental characteristics of the area likely to be affected by the program,
and proximity of any protected areas or sites or critical natural habitats)
Environmental Issues: (identified or suspected in project)
Proposed Actions: (to mitigate environmental issues described above)
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (presents reasons for
environmental category selected)
Reporting Schedule: (Is there a separate environmental analysis? If yes,
when is it due?)
Date for first draft
Current status
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups
and local NGOs consulted.)
i8/04/01 - Page C12



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
APPENDIX D:  ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
Appendix Dl:   General Content of an EA Report
Appendix D2:   Sample TOR for EA for a new rural or agricultural
road
Appendix D3:   Sample TOR for EA of a Wastewater Collection,
Treatment and Disposal Subproject
18/04/01 - Page DI



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix DI: General Content of an EA Report
Executive        It should contain a concise statement of the project objectives and a
Summary:         brief project description in addition to a description of key project
findings and recommendations for environmental management.
Policy, Legal,    Describe the pertinent regulations, permitting conditions and standards
and              governing environmental quality, health and safety, protection of
Administrative   sensitive areas, land use control, etc.
Framework:
Tables should be used to list applicable standards and note which
authorities are responsible for their application. Where there are no
relevant local standards, suitable international norms may be used.
Project          This section should describe the need for the project in the context of
Objectives and   the local and national situation and strategy. The effect on economic
Description:     and social development goals of the locality, country and region should
be described. If the project is an element of an overall development
program in the area, then a description of the other program elements
must be presented.
A description of the relevant parts of the project should be provided
using maps and including the following information: location; general
layout; size; capacity; etc.; pre-construction activities; construction
activities; operation and maintenance activities; and life span.
Baseline Data    This section should include descriptions of the area of influence or
study area and the relevant physical, biological and socioeconomic
conditions. This should include any topics falling under the safeguard
polices of the World Bank. The data presented should be relevant to
decision making regarding project location, design, operation, and
mitigation measures for adverse impacts. The source, accuracy and
reliability of the data should be clearly stated.
Environmental   A prediction of the changes in the environment resulting from project
Impacts:         construction and operation are to be considered, and an assessment of
the effect on the surrounding physical, biological, and social
environment, should be presented. This should include positive as well
as negative impacts. Mitigation measures should be identified as well
as any negative impacts for which there are no mitigative measures.
This section should also identify and estimate the extent and quality of
available data, key data gaps, and uncertainties associated with
predictions, and specific topics that do not require further attention.
Analysis of      This section should provide a brief description of possible alternatives
Alternatives:    to the project including the 'no action' alternative. These may include
alternative location, site layout, technologies, design options, and
management systems.
18/04/01 - Page D2



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
The reasons why the various alternatives considered were rejected
should be documented.
Environmental   This section should include details of the management initiatives to be
Management    implemented during both the construction and operational phase of the
Plan:            project. The EMP should have three main components:
(i) Environmental mitigation plan: Recommend feasible and cost-
effective measures to prevent or reduce significant negative
impacts to acceptable levels. Estimate the impacts and costs of
those measures, and of the institutional and training requirements
to implement them. Consider compensation to affected parties
for impacts which cannot be mitigated. Prepare a management
plan including proposed work programs, budget estimates,
schedules, staffing and train'ing requirements, and other necessary
support services to implement the mitigating measures.
(ii)  Institutional capacity and needs: Review the authority and
capability of institutions and recommend steps to strengthen or
expand them so that the management and monitoring plans in the
environmental  assessment  can  be  implemented.    The
recommendations may extend to management procedures and
training, staffing, operation and maintenance training, budgeting,
and financial support.
(iii) Monitoring Plan: Prepare a detailed plan to monitor the
implementation of mitigating measures and the impacts of the
project during construction and operation.
18/04/01 - Page D3



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix D2:    Sample TOR for EA for a new rural or agricultural
road
1.     Background Information
The PMT environmental specialist should include the following information:
-  Brief description of the major components of the proposed subproject
-  A statement of the need for it and the objectives it is intended to meet
-  A brief history of the subproject, its current status and timetable
-  A summary of the environmental issues identified during the screening process.
2.     Objectives and Scope of Work
Consultants are required to carry out an EA study and prepare an EA report according to the
World Bank standards. The report should be concise and limited to significant environmental
issues. The main text should focus on findings, conclusions and recommended actions, supported
by summaries of the data collected and citations for any references used in interpreting those data.
Detailed or un-interpreted data are not appropriate in the main text and-should be presented in
appendices or a separate volume. Unpublished documents used in the assessment may not be
readily available and should also be assembled in an appendix.
The report should include the following sections:
* Executive summary
* Policy, Legal, and Administrative Framework
e Project Objectives and Description
- Baseline Data
* Environmental Impacts
* Analysis of Alternatives
* Environmental Management Plan
* Appendices
The general requirements for the above should be based on the World Bank's O.P/BP/GP 4.01 -
Environmental Assessment at the World Bank. Specific aspects under the above components of
the EA that should be addressed in the EA are described below.
18/04/01 - Page D4



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.     Key Outputs of EA Report
Executive         A one page concise statement of the project objectives and a brief
Summary:          project description in addition to a description of key project findings
and recommendations for environmental management.
Policy, Legal,    Describe the directly pertinent regulations, permitting conditions and
and               standards that applies to the subproject. Tables could be used to list
Administrative    applicable standards and note which authorities are responsible for their
Framework:        application.
Project,          This section should describe the existing road network, the need for the
Objectives and    proposed road and its effect on economic and social development goals
Description:      of the community.
A physical description of subproject should be also provided, including
the road location/route, type, expected volume of use and number of
beneficiaries, traffic impacts, and necessary construction activities
including temporary re-routing of traffic, etc.
Engineering descriptions such as site clearance; earthworks; drainage
and service ducts; road pavements; traffic safety features; etc.; should
be also provided.                           --,-.
Baseline Data     This section should include descriptions of the area of influence or
study area and the relevant physical, biological and socioeconomic
conditions.
The key data needed for a road subproject is the biological environment
(of road site and potential area of influence of the road); ecologically
important or sensitive habitats, including parks or preserves; and
significant natural, cultural or historic sites.
Environmental   A prediction of the changes in the environment resulting from project
Impacts:          construction and operation should be identified, and an assessment of
the effect on the surrounding physical, biological, and human systems,
should be presented.  The engineering plans should reflect "best
practice" in road alignment and construction to ensure that potential
negative environmental impacts are minimized. Among the issues to be
investigated are:
- Effects on biodiversity; effect on hydrology due to construction of
road; impacts on land resources caused by clearing, topsoil removal
(desertification), grading, filling, and paving.
- Air pollution from asphalt plants; dust; noise from construction
equipment and blasting.
- Loss of vegetative cover; landslides; erosion; desertification.
- Modification of natural drainage patterns; changes in groundwater
elevation; flash flooding.
- Stream and lake sedimentation; use of pesticides; fuel and oil spills;
water pollution from spills or accumulated contaminants on road
18/04/01 - Page D5



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
surfaces.
-  Interference with movements of wildlife and livestock.
-  [nterference with movements of people; destruction of important
cultural/historic sites; effects to local economy.
Analysis      of This section should provide a brief description of possible alternatives
Alternatives:     to the project including the 'no action' alternative.
A table comparing the various alternatives could be added and the
reasons why the various alternatives considered were rejected should be
documented.
Environmental   This section should include details of the management initiatives to be
Management        implemented during both the construction and operational phase of the
Plan:             project. The EMP should have three main components:
(i) Environmental mitigation plan: describe feasible and cost-effective
measures to be implemented to prevent or reduce significant
negative impacts to acceptable levels. A management plan
including proposed work programs, budget estimates, schedules,
staffing and training requirements, and other necessary support
services to implement the mitigating measures should be also
included. Good Practice Environmental P;qredures should be
prepared and recommended for inclusion in the- subproject bidding
and construction documents. Any additional measures to mitigate
site-specific impacts should be developed as part of this task.
(ii) Institutional capacities and needs. this should include:
- Institutional responsibilities for management of the road
- Responsibilities for monitoring, reporting and enforcement
- Identification of any needs for capacity building, training or
equipment
(iii)Environmental monitoring program: Prepare a detailed plan to
monitor the implementation of mitigating measures and the
impacts of the project during construction and operation. Include
in the plan an estimate of capital and operating costs and a
description of other inputs (such as training and institutional
strengthening) needed to conduct it.
4.     Consulting Team for EIA
Members of the team should consist of people with the following expertise and specialization:
-  Environmental specialists with experience in EAs of roads
-  Terrestrial ecology (wildlife, plant and conservation ecology)
-  Hydrology/hydrogeology
18/04/01 - Page D6



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
Appendix D3:    Sample  TOR  for EA  of a Wastewater Collection,
Treatment and Disposal Subproject
1.     Background Information
The PMT environmental specialist should include the following infornation:
-  Brief description of the major components of the proposed subproject
-  A statement of the need for it and the objectives it is intended to meet
-  A brief history of the subproject, its current status and timetable
-  A summary of the environmental issues identified during the screening process.
2.     Objectives and Scope of Work
Consultants are required to carry out an EA study and prepare an EA report according to the
World Bank standards. The report should be concise and limited to significant environmental
issues. The main text should focus on findings, conclusions and recommended actions, supported
by summaries of the data collected and citations for any references used in interpreting those data.
Detailed or un-interpreted data are not appropriate in the main text and should be presented in
appendices or a separate volume. Unpublished documents used in the assessment may not be
readily available and should also be assembled in an appendix.
The report should include the following sections:
* Executive summary
* Policy, Legal, and Administrative Framework
* Project Objectives and Description
* Baseline Data
* Environmental Impacts
* Analysis of Alternatives
* Environmental Management Plan
* Appendices
The general requirements for the above should be based on the World Bank's OP/BP/GP 4.01 -
Environmental Assessment at the World Bank. Specific aspects under the above components of
the EA that should be addressed in the EA are described below.
18/04/01 - Page D7



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
3.     Key Outputs of EA Report
Executive         A one page concise statement of the project objectives and a brief
Summary:          project description in addition to a description of key project findings
and recommendations for environmental management.
Policy,   Legal, Describe the directly pertinent regulations, permitting conditions and
and               standards that applies to the subproject. Tables could be used to list
Administrative    applicable standards and note which authorities are responsible for their
Framework:        application.  Where there are no relevant local standards, suitable
international norms may be used. Regulations should particularly cover
environmental quality, pollutant discharges to surface waters and land,
industrial discharges to public sewers, water reclamation and reuse,
agricultural and landscape use of sludge, health and safety, protection
of sensitive areas, siting, land use control, etc.
Project           This section should describe the existing wastewater system, and the
Objectives  and  need for the proposed subproject.
Description:      A  physical and engineering description of the project should be
provided including location; general layout (e.g. distribution and/or
collection systems, pumping stations, treatment works, intakes and
outfalls); unit process description and diagram ,<
size in terms of population and population equivalents, present and
projected: number and types of connected industries; anticipated
influent and effluent characteristics; pre-construction construction and
operation and maintenance activities; life span...
Baseline Data     This section should include descriptions of the area of influence or
study area and the relevant physical, biological and socioeconomic
conditions.
(ajPhysical environment: geology; topography; soils (general
description for overall study area and details for land application
sites); monthly average temperatures, rainfall and runoff
characteristics; description of receiving waters (identity of streams,
lakes, or marine waters; annual average discharge or current data by
month, chemical quality; existing discharges or withdrawals).
(b) Biological environment: rare or endangered species; sensitive
habitats, including parks or preserves, significant natural sites;
species of commercial importance.
(c)  Sociocultural environment: present and projected population;
present land use; planned development activities: community
structure.
Environmental   A prediction of the changes in the environment resulting from project
Impacts:          construction and operation should be identified, and an assessment of
the effect on the surrounding physical, biological, and human systems,
should be presented. The assessment should pay particular attention to
I1
18/04/01 - Page D8



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
-  The extent to which receiving water quality standards and/or other
beneficial use objectives will be achieved with the proposed type
and level of treatment.
-  The length of stream which will be positively or negatively affected
by the discharge, and the magnitude of the changes in water quality
parameters.
-  Projected quantitative changes in beneficial uses, such as fisheries,
recreation and tourism, and waters available for portable supply,
irrigation, and industrial use.
-  Sanitation and public benefits anticipated.
-  Wastewater re-use for agriculture
Analysis      of This section should provide a brief description of possible alternatives
Alternatives:     to the project including the 'no action' alternative.
The analysis should investigate the variety of siting and technological
alternatives existing for wastewater collection, treatment and disposal,
and sludge management. Alternatives should be compared in terms of
potential environmental impacts, land and energy requirements, capital
and operating costs, reliability, suitability under local conditions, and
institutional. training, and monitoring requirements.
A table comparing the various alternatives could be added and the
reasons why the various alternatives considered were rejected should be
documented.
Environmental   This section should include details of the management initiatives to be
Management        implemented during both the construction and operational phase of the
Plan:             project. The EMP should have three main components:
(i) Environmental mitigation plan: describe feasible and cost-effective
measures to be implemented to prevent or reduce significant negative
impacts to acceptable levels. In particular, the arrangements for the
continued provision of wastewater collection and disposal during
periods of disruption, e.g. by over-pumping, and the protection of the
environment in the vicinity and downstream of the point(s) of
discharge. A management plan including proposed work programs,
budget estimates, schedules, staffing and training requirements, and
other necessary support services to implement the mitigating measures
should be also included. Good Practice Environmental Procedures
should be prepared and recommended for inclusion in the subproject
bidding and construction documents. Any additional measures to
mitigate site-specific impacts should be developed as part of this task.
(ii) Institutional capacities and needs: this should include:
- Institutional responsibilities for management of the road
- Responsibilities for monitoring, reporting and enforcement
- Identification of any needs for capacity building, training or
equipment
(iii)Environmental monitoring program: Prepare a detailed plan to
monitor the implementation of mitigating measures and the
18/04/01 - Page D9



Community Development Project
Environmental Guidelines
impacts of the project during construction and operation. Include
in the plan an estimate of capital and operating costs and a
description of other inputs (such as training and institutional
strengthening) needed to conduct it. Monitoring should ascertain
compliance with agreed standards of effluent discharge, and serve
as an analytical support tool for achieving optimal operational
performance.
Appendices       -  Subproject location plan, to include all water sources in the area
together with any available hydrogeological information;
-  Sub-project site plans - Topography and Land Use at 1:20,000;
-  List of EA report preparers;
-  List of References cited in the text;
-  Records of inter-agency, piiblic forum  and other consultation
meetings;
-  Relevant Environmental data;
-  Copies of study reports and other unpublished documents cited in
the text.
4.     Consulting Team for EIA
Members of the team should consist of people with the following expertise-and specialization:
- Environmental specialists with experience in EAs
- Terrestrial ecology (wildlife, plant and conservation ecology)
- Hydrology/hydrogeology
- Water Quality expert
Other specialties that may be needed, depending on the nature of the project, are public health,
agronomy, land use planning, and resource economics.
18/04/01 -Page D10



