Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 2204 1-LE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 29, 2001
.c[uman Development Sector
MIiddle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective: April 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = LBP
1.00 LBP = US$0.000664
US$1 = LBP 1,514
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIS         Accounting and Information System                  MOPWT   Ministry of Public Works and Transport
CAP         Community Action Plan                              MOSA       Ministry of Social Affairs
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy                        MTR        Mid-term Review
CDP         Community Development Project                      NCB        National Competitive Bidding
CDR         Council for Development and Reconstruction         NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
CDR-PC    CDR Project Coordinator                              NS         National Shopping
EA          Environmental Assessment                           OM         Operations Manual
EMP         Environmental Management Plan                      PA         Project Agreement
EU          European Union                                     PAD        Project Appraisal Document
FMIP      : First Municipal Infrastructure Project             PC         Poverty Cluster
FMS         Financial Management System                        PFS        Project Financial Statement
GOL         Government of Lebanon                              Pi         Project Intermediary
GPN       : General Procurement Notice                         PIP        Project Implementation Plan
IBRD      : International Bank for Reconstruction and Development   PMR   Project Management Report
ICB         International Competitive Bidding                  PMT        Project Maniagement Team
ICR         Implementation Completion Report                   RFP        Request for Proposal
IDP       : Internally Displaced People                        RPA        Regional Poverty Area
ISA         Intemational Standards on Auditing                 SA         Spec'al Account
LA        : Loan Agreement                                     SBD        Standard Bidding Document
LBP         Lebanese Pounds                                    SOE        Statement of Expenditures
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation                          SPN      : Specific Procurement Notice
MOE         Ministry of Education                              SRFP       Standard Request for Proposal
MOEnv.: Ministry of Environment                                TA         Technical Assistance
MOEW        Ministry of Energy and Water                       TBD      : To be determined
MOF         Ministry of Finance                                TOR        Terms of Reference
MOIM        Ministry of Interior and Municipalities            UNDB       United Nations Development Buslness
MOP         Manual of Procedures                               UNDP       United Nations Development Programroe
MOPH        Ministry of Public Health                          MOSA       Ministry of Social Affairs
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Joseph Saba
Sector Director:  Jacques Baudouy
Acting Sector Manager:  David Steel
Task Team Leader:  Bassam Ramadan



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Community Development Project
Contents
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1.  Project development objective ...................................................................2
2.  Key performance indicators ..................................................................                                                     2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ...............                                                    2
2.  Main  sector issues and Government strategy ....................................................... ............2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices ..................                                   .......................4
C. Project Description Summary
1.  Project components ...................................................................                                                           5
2.  Key policy  and institutional reforms supported by the Project ................................................                                   6
3.  Benefits and target population ...................................................................6
4.  Institutional and implementation  arrangements ...................................................................7
D. Project Rationale
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................................................                             14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies .....................    15
3.  Lessons learned  and reflected  in the Project design ..................................................................                        16
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ................................................................                              16
5.  Value added of Bank  support in this Project ................................................                          ..................       16
E. Summnary Project Analysis
1. Economic ..................................................................                                                                      17
2. Financial ..................................................................                                                                     17
3. Technical ..................................................................                                                                      18
4.  Institutional ..................................................................                                                                18
5. Environmental ..................................................................                                                                 20
6. Social ..................................................................                                                                        22
7.  Safeguard Policies ..........                  ........................................................                                         24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1.  Sustainability .................................................................                                                               24
2.  Critical risks .................................................................                                                                26
3.  Possible controversial aspects .................................................................                                                27
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition .....................................................................                                                   27
H.  Readiness for Implementation .....................................................................                                                    28
I.    Compliance with  Bank  Policies .....................................................................                                                28



Annexes
Page
Annex  1           : Project Design Summary ...............................................................                                                29
Annex 2             : Detailed Project Description ...............................................................                                         31
Annex 3               Estimated Project Costs ...............................................................                                              35
Annex 4             : Project Rationale and Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary ............................................                               36
Annex 5             : Financial Summary ...............................................................                                                    55
Annex 6             : Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ...............................................................                            56
Annex 6(a): LACI Certification .69
Annex 6(b) Financial Management .71
Annex 7               Project Processing Schedule  ...............................................................                                         79
Annex 8             : Documents in the Project File ...............................................................                                        80
Annex 9               Statement of Loans and Credits ...............................................................                                       81
Annex  10           : Country at a Glance ...............................................................                                                  82
Annex  11             TOR  for Project Coordinator, Council for Development and Reconstruction ...........                                     ......      84
Annex 12              TOR for Project Management Team (PMT), Council for Development and                                                                   85
Reconstructions.
Annex  13             TOR  for Qualification of Project Intermediaries (PIs) .......................................................                       86
Annex 14              Sample of Subproject Agreement between the Council for Development and                                                               88
Reconstruction (CDR) and Project Intermediaries (Pls).
Map: IBRD 31289



LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Community Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Human Development Sector
Date: May 29, 2001                          Team Leader: Bassam Ramadan
Country Director: Joseph Saba               Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Project ID: P071113                         Sector(s): SF - Social Fund
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan   Theme(s): Social Protection
(SIL)
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[x ] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ ]Grant    [ ]Guarantee       [ I Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others: Amount (US$m): 20.00
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 6.5                   Years to maturity: 14
Commitment fee: 0.85% and 0.75%             Service charge: 1% (front-end fee)
Financing Plan:    Source                          Local           Foreign     Total
BORROWER                                             5.00             0.00       5.00
IBRD                                                17.00             3.00      20.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                    5.00             0.00       5.00
Total:        27.00              3.00     30.00
Borrower: Lebanese Republic
Responsible agency: Council for Development and Reconstruction
Address: Tallet El-Saray
P.O. Box 5351/116
Beirut, Lebanon
Contact Person: Mr. Mahmoud Osman, President
Tel: (961 1) 981431/432  Fax: (961 1) 981-252   Email:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2002      2003      2004    2005      2006      2007
Annual   0.20        3.20      5.90    5.50     3.20       2.00
Cumulative    0.20       3.40      9.30   14.80    18.00      20.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 01/15/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
1



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the Community Development Project (CDP) is to establish an effective and
sustainable instrument to improve the living conditions and the economic status of disadvantaged
communities. This will be achieved by a four-pronged approach to: (i) improve access to basic social and
economic infrastructure by funding small well-targeted community-based initiatives to improve the quality
and accessibility to the poor of education, health, and physical environment services; (ii) improve the
economic status of poor and more vulnerable households by stimulating local incomes and productivity and
reducing exposure to risk, through basic skills training, and capacity building to supplement micro-credit
initiatives; (iii) develop special social programs that target the needs of specific vulnerable groups,
especially women, children and the disabled; and (iv) document the experience obtained through this
Project and derive the lessons learned in consultation with ministries that are engaged in the development
of a longer-term strategy to reduce social and regional imbalances in human development.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress towards this objective would be measured and monitored based on: (i) evolution in the diversity,
quantity, quality and cost of services accessed or accessible by less advantaged communities; (ii) the
number, distribution and socio-economic profile of beneficiaries; (iii) the number and distribution of local
communities in targeted areas with implemented CDP subprojects; and (iv) the documentation and
communication at the national level of achievements and lessons learned and the effectiveness of the
instrument, including selected poverty and human development indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17153          Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/7/97
The Project objective is anchored in the overall November 1997 CAS' focus: to "upgrade the human
resource base and address poverty in target underprivileged areas". By transferring resources, with the
participation of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), to deprived rural and urban communities, the
proposed Project will raise the living standards of target communities and improve their access to social
services and basic infrastructure.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Addressing regional inequity in the provision of basic infrastructure while improving the access of the poor
to social services has always been a key priority for successive Governments in Lebanon. The Government
is committed to a development strategy that focuses on the balanced and equitable development of all the
regions of Lebanon. This commitment aims at promoting a culture of performance in the provision of
social services through community participation in decision making and NGO involvement in service
delivery.
The steady decline in economic growth since the mid-1990s, coupled with external problems and other
distortions caused by the long war and occupation of the South, has led living conditions to deteriorate,
especially among lower income groups and in less advantaged places. The four main social and economic
challenges are: (i) significant regional inequity in the access to basic infrastructure and social services; (ii)
sharp disparities in income levels; (iii) growing gaps between incomes and the cost of living for lower
2



income groups, particularly the costs of health and education; and (iv) fragmented safety net that leaves
many vulnerable and marginalized groups insufficiently protected. A major factor in poverty is lack of
protection against risk, including loss of employment, incapacitation or loss of a family's breadwinner.
Sharp disparities in income levels relate both to the distribution and quality of employment, and also to
highly unequal access to assets including savings and credit. Certain studies' show that almost a third of
households live below the threshold of basic needs satisfaction as measured across a range of indicators.
Poor households tend to have more members, this represents over a third of the population. About 7 percent
of households (over 1:15) demonstrate very low levels of needs satisfaction. There are disproportionately
high numbers of illiterate women compared with men, women's health status appears less favorable
compared with men, women have more difficulty to have access to income earning opportunities.
Although the depth and incidence of poverty have specific distribution patterns, and although all districts
of the country show some levels of poverty, numerically the areas of greatest need fall in four large
geographic clusters. These are: (i) the north, including the extremely deprived rural district of Akkar
which, together with the deprived urban core of Tripoli, and the district of Miniye, accounts for over a third
of the national poverty; (ii) Greater Beirut, which has a lower proportion of deprivation than the rest of
the country but where, by sheer weight of numbers, over one quarter of the need is located; (iii) the south,
severely affected by occupation and war; and (iv) the eastern Bekaa districts of Hermel and Baalbeck.
Other areas where there is a smaller concentration of poverty are: (i) the mountainous area of Jbeil -
Batroun -Bcharreh; (ii) West Bekaa (Rachaya -Hasbayya); and (iii) Saida -Chouf. These areas will be
included in the Project.
The Government has put in place, in July 2000, a strategy to support the recovery of the South (US$1.34
billion equivalent) and prepared a five year national development plan that concentrates on rehabilitating
and upgrading basic social and economic infrastructure. The Government is in the process of developing
with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), in the context of a national programme for
improving the living conditions of the poor, a comprehensive and integrated pilot Regional Development
Program for Akkar. Significant examples of initiatives to effectively coordinate local agencies at district
level also exist in Saida and Tyr.
Despite an extensive literature, numerical poverty estimates remain particularly difficult in the absence of census information, and
further research analysis and synthesis are required. Two published documents provide an overview: Ministry of Social
Affairs/UNDP: World Summit for Social Development Progress Report: Geneva 2000, Beirut, Consultation and Research
Institute, April 2000; and Ministry of Social Affairs/UNFPA Population Atlas Vol. 1, Beirut 1998. Three in depth subnational
studies are: Administration Centrale de la Statistique, Conditions de Vie des menages dans la region de Baalbeck-Hermel
(Etudes Statistiques No 7, Beirut, 1997) and Conditions de Vie des menages dans la region du Akkar en 1997 Etudes Statistiques
No 10, Beirut, 1998), and Adib Nehmeh et al., "The South, a story of hardship: the socio-economic characteristics of the
liberated regions" (Beirut, National Programme for Improving the Living Conditions of the Poor, October 2000). The Bank's
Lebanon Poverty Review (in progress) has assembled and synthesizes a great deal of relevant information; see especially
Annexes I and II covering national level and rural poverty. MOSA - UNDP plans a multi-purpose household survey.
3



Four key issues in the intersectoral field of improving living conditions that still require better resolution
are: (i) the need to develop a clear agreed overall framework to integrate and coordinate the work of a
multiplicity of actors, including various sector ministries, the NGO sector, and local government
institutions; (ii) the need for greater emphasis on design of demand-driven programs that respond to needs,
initiatives and priorities of the beneficiaries themselves; (iii) greater sensitivity to gender issues especially
where needs of poor women are concerned; (iv) the need to develop clear and transparent allocation
mechanisms that will improve efficiency and coverage, targeting programs and resources to areas and
sectors of greatest need; and (v) the need to develop easily monitorable indicators that will measure the
process, outputs and outcomes of such interventions, and to apply the information gained to further
improvement of the program and to develop a longer-term strategy that will reduce social and regional
imbalances in human development.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices:
The CDP will address the issues of: (i) regional inequity in the provision of basic infrastructure through
improving the access of the poor to social services and basic infrastructure; and (ii) disparities in income
levels through support to the promotion of self-employment opportunities. This will be accomplished
through a participative, community-driven approach involving the NGO sector in coordination with
beneficiary communities, local government, local private organizations and concerned sector ministries.
The World Bank through its sector work has been helping the Government to introduce sector reforms and
develop coherent social policies, as well as carrying out an NGO' sector assessment aimed at identifying
the potential for NGOs' involvement in a CDP-type project and assessing NGOs' capacity building needs.
This assessment was carried out through interviews and field visits, in close coordination with active NGO
umbrella organizations in the country. The World Bank, in the context of the poverty review, also carried
out a study of the Lebanese microfinance industry. This review of the micro credit sector indicated that the
present need is less for increased capitalization of existing schemes, than for the provision of parallel
training activities and support services that would improve the prospects of success for micro enterprise
ventures. Furthermore, the European Union (EU) is supporting a social fund initiative, which will provide
substantial financial resources for the capitalization of banks and NGOs servicing the micro enterprise
sector.
The Project will address the identified issues through: (i) community participation; (ii) performance-based
NGO involvement; (iii) capacity building of the NGO sector; and (iv) partnership with key stakeholders.
The Project draws on worldwide experience in reducing poverty through community-driven development,
as well as on lessons learned in Lebanon through various social programs, including donor-supported
interactions and the unique role that the NGO sector and communities have played during the war and the
reconstruction period.
A review of the thematic activities of NGOs in Lebanon indicates a strong bias towards sectors that have
been traditionally under-served by the Government. These activities include health, education, social
welfare and vocational training, which account for approximately 77 percent of total NGO spending.
Involvement in other sectors remains low and relatively recent. The activities of NGOs have been largely
concentrated in urban areas; however, in some rural communities, local committees do exist but are mostly
project committees formed in response to a specific project.
4



Implementing the CDP through locally-based NGOs can bring the following contributions to the Project:
(a) Innovation: Given their small size and flexible nature, NGOs in Lebanon are generally well placed to
develop new approaches and innovative practices.
(b) Social Inclusion. The poorest and most disadvantaged members of society are often the most difficult
to reach. Collectively, NGOs have proved to be an effective (and sometimes the only) institutional link
to and voice for such groups.
(c) Participation: Popular participation is increasingly recognized as an essential ingredient in achieving
effective and sustainable development. NGOs routinely use intermediation, social mobilization and
participatory project planning and implementation.
(d) Project design: NGOs with close community ties and relevant operational experience can play a useful
role in targeting strategic subprojects, identifying appropriate selection criteria, coordinating among
local actors, and monitoring subproject benefits.
(e) Sustainability: Past experience has shown that development sustainability is enhanced when
communities play an active role in project activities. Working through NGOs is an effective means of
building community ownership and ensuring a long-term institutional presence in the community once
the Project is completed.
(,) Efficiency: Effective NGOs have flexible management and adjust quickly to specific needs.
In cases where local NGO capacity is weak, collaboration with national and international NGOs would be
encouraged and supported by provisions for capacity building to be included in the CDP. Many national
and international NGOs in Lebanon work with and through local NGO partners and can, therefore, play a
valuable role as "intermediaries" between the Government and smaller local organizations.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project will be implemented over a period of five (5) years and will consist of three main components
as summarized in the table below:
... . ....... ...   ... ... zB.....   . . .....    - - -         .. v9.. ............ ..... - . . .. £ . .. . .. . w  f I d c tv     B a k f   i r
InictieBank-   f%of
Component                        Sector            Costs         %  of       Financing        Bank-
[  .  ___... ..._.___ _....... .. .(US$ M)   'Total                        j!~!_  Lfinancin
1: Social and Infrastructure             Community                22.50        75.00          13.60         68.00
Deyelopment...... .  .............       Development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......................  ........    ......    .    ...--- - - - - - - -  .1    - -- ....................... .    .......... .. ........ ........................  .......I.. . ........................ ...........................
2: Income Enhancement                    Training                  3.00        10.00           2.70         13.50
3: Project Management Support            Institutional             4.50    i  15.00            3.70         18.50
Development
,                                  .. ... ... ... ......... .......... ................................... .............................   ..     ......... . .... . .......................................... .............. ......     ....  ....   ...  .   ......  ....  .    ......
.......... Total Proiect costs                               30.00       100.00          20.00        100.00
I           Total financing required                          30.00       100.00          20.00        100.00
5



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
*  Support and strengthen local participation in the identification and prioritization of socio-economic
needs and implementation of basic social services and infrastructure.
*  Strengthen the role and capacity of local and national NGOs in the delivery of basic services with
local participation in a sustainable manner.
*  Establish a viable framework for an effective cooperation among sectoral ministries, the Council
for Development and Reconstruction (CDR), the NGO community, local govemments and
communities in the provision of basic services targeting particularly the marginal poorest areas.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Project would bring three types of benefits to disadvantaged communities, with emphasis on areas that
demonstrate large concentrations of deprivation. Deriving from a community demand-driven menu of
small-scale activities to be developed during the Project implementation, these diverse benefits may be
aggregated into: (i) increased access to basic social and economic infrastructure, the reduced cost of
accessing these services, and the improved quality (through upgrading) of the infrastructures; (ii) increased
human resources and capacity for families with low or uncertain incomes, enabling them to cope better
with economic shocks, unemployment, and uncertainty to generate additional incomes to meet their basic
needs; these would include skills for employment, especially for young men and women; literacy and post
literacy training; business skills to manage micro-credit opportunities; and special training for enhanced
capability, social reintegration or rehabilitation of vulnerable groups; and (iii) increased empowerment for
the needy and vulnerable at the local and national levels to direct adequate resources to deprived areas and
needy or vulnerable groups.
The Project beneficiaries in principle are inclusive of all needy, deprived or vulnerable communities. The
Project would channel a critical mass of funding and efforts to areas with the highest concentration of
needs or eligible beneficiary groups. Priority cluster areas have already been identified as a result of the
poverty mapping exercise conducted by the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) with the help of the UNDP
since 1995. These will be further defined by Project Intermediaries (PIs)2 in the course of cluster situation
analysis (social assessment) to be undertaken during the initial phase of cluster area program
implementation. The cluster area social assessment would add to the readily available socio-economic
indicators such as: (i) access to basic social and economic infrastructure; (ii) income levels; (iii)
unemployment; (iv) extent of Govemment and donor intervention; (v) lack of environmental and natural
assets; (vi) socio-economic gender equity considerations; and (vii) other qualitative indicators that reflect
the level of organization and participation in the communities. In general, geographical targeting will focus
on two types of areas: (i) depressed and peripheral rural areas, which have suffered major dislocation and
stagnation; and (ii) deprived concentration in major urban agglomerations.
Social targeting will be undertaken primarily through locating or expanding self-targeting programs in
areas of deprivation (vocational training, micro-credit training and support services, literacy and post
literacy activities, reproductive health and special programs for at risk groups). Annex 4 describes targeting
in greater detail.
2 Project Intermediaries (Pls) are the selected non-governmental organizations to be in charge of designing and implementing a
program of subprojects.
6



In addition, the identification of lessons learned through this Project of more effective ways to address
community development needs would serve as an input to the development by the Government of a long-
term national poverty alleviation strategy.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements
Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR)
CDR will be the executing agency responsible for project execution on behalf of the Government
(Institutional and Implementation Arrangements Chart, Annexes 11 and 12). Since CDR has limited
experience in managing community-driven social development programs implemented through NGOs, a
Project Management Team (PMT), this could be a consulting firm and/or an NGO with experience in the
management of community development programs, will be established within the CDR to manage the
implementation of the CDP.
To coordinate and facilitate the functions of the PMT within CDR, the CDR will appoint a full-time Project
Coordinator (CDR-PC) who will report directly to the President of the CDR. The CDR-PC will coordinate
and supervise the work of the PMT. CDR, through its Programs Department, will play a key role in
monitoring and evaluating the Project's impact. To supplement the Programs Department staff, the PMT
will recruit short-term consultants with solid experience in social development and statistical analysis.
An outline description of the CDR-PC's responsibilities is given in Annex 11, but briefly they will include
ensuring quality assurance of the following processes:  (i) the procurement of the PMT; (ii) the
procurement of the PIs with the logistical support of the PMT; (iii) the coordination of CDR's review and
Board's approval of PIs' programs; (iv) the monitoring of PIs' contracts and consultants who will be
conducting studies and auditing of the Project accounts; and (v) the coordination of the processing within
the CDR of all legal and financial matters related to the execution of the Project. The CDR-PC will be
supported by technical and administrative staff of the PMT. In the same spirit, the CDR will strengthen its
capacity to complement the functions of the PMT in the areas of procurement, finance and social
development. This will be achieved through acquiring new skills and training existing staff.
Project Management Team (PMT)
To provide assistance to CDR and the PIs in carrying out their respective project implementation functions
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement (LA), the Project Agreement (PA) and the
Operations Manual (OM), the PMT will be established with professional staff of a non-governmental
organization or a consulting firm or a joint venture thereof, to be appointed by and operating within CDR.
The PMT shall comprise a project manager, a financial management specialist, an accountant, a
procurement officer, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, an environmental specialist as well as
supervision and support staff. To expedite project implementation, the PMT manager will report directly
to the CDR President through the CDR-PC.
The PMT will be responsible for the day-to-day management of all project activities under the supervision
of the CDR-PC, such as the procurement process for the PI contracts and consultants for technical
assistance and studies (preparation of: requests for proposals, terms of reference, participation in the
evaluation of offers and contract award, and preparation of documentation for contract signing and
issuance of payments). The PMT will supervise (field and desk work) the contracts under execution,
monitor and evaluate output, process and impact indicators and evaluate project impact.
7



The PMT will be responsible for the project accounting functions and reporting, organizing and managing
project related workshops, and the preparation of progress and completion reports.
The PMT would also ensure that: (i) subprojects are appraised and implemented in accordance with the
provisions of the OM; (ii) any land or right of way required for construction or civil works under the
proposed subprojects is acquired pursuant to the laws and regulations of the Borrower; (iii) the carrying out
of the subprojects shall not involve the involuntary resettlement of local population; (iv) the environmental
screening of any subproject shall be conducted in accordance with the OM and the preparation of any
required environmental assessments shall be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (v) they
supervise the preparation of environmental assessments and ensure that environmental mitigating and
monitoring measures of subprojects are properly implemented. Annex 12 gives a detailed account of the
PMT' s responsibilities.
Project Intermediaries (PIs)
The PIs shall, in accordance with the provision of the PA and the OM, be responsible for: (a) conducting
social assessments of the beneficiary communities in coordination with the concerned stakeholders; (b)
designing demand-driven priority needs programs for the proposed subprojects, based on such assessments;
(c) carrying out the implementation of the subprojects program approved by CDR; (d) supervising,
monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the eligible subprojects including the environmental
requirements set forth in the environmental guidelines; and (e) furnishing CDR through the PMT with
progress and financial reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities.
8



*    Lebanese Republic
Community Development Project
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
CDR Board                      CDR Board                      World Bank                                         World Bank
Key Tasks                                                                                                        Key Tasks
Approval of PMT, Pi,                    Provide no objection
*    Approval of PMT, Pa ,                                                                                    Review monitong and execution
Auditoraend                         -|o  otat
Consultant contracts                                                                                        of contracts
|                          * ~~~~~~~~~Supervisioin of CDP
* Approval of Pls'                  CDRJ                                                                      Montor pcurement and
program framework               President                                                                   disbursement progress
agreements                                                                                                  dsusnetpora
* Review CDP audits
PMT
Key Tasks
* Day-io-day project
administration
|  Cl DR   ll  C1 IR   l l  C1 IR   l l  CDR   l   * Procurement and
CD                       CRCDR                                       CDR                                    accounting functions
Programs Dept.        Finance Dept.          Legal Dept          Projects Dept.                               Supervision
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*Reporting
CDR Departments Support--Key Tasks *                                                                             Moietorn and evalaiabon
Programs Department                                                                                              by the Pls
* Review Pis' programs 
* Monitoring and evaluation.                                                                                                   S
* Evaluation of lessons learned.                             PMT       Project                                        Key Tasks
Finance Department                                           CMoroiecto                                                Ky  Tasks
* Issue payments to contractors                                        Coordinator (PC)       --                 Conduct social assessment
* Manage Spedal Accounts                                                                                    I    Participate in priority needs
* Review annual audiis of prqect accounts                                                                   1    identification
Legal Department                                                                                                 Program design
* Prepare and execute contracts                                                                                  Implement approved programs
* Provides legal support during CDP implementation                                                               Procurement
Projects Department                                                                                         i    Payments
* Procurement of PMT, Auditors, Pis and Consultants                     Proect                                   Supervision
Project Coordinator                                                 Intermediaries                               Monitorng and evaluation
* Supervision and monitoring of CDP implementation                       (Pis)                                * Commission completed programs
* Coordinate Bank CDP supervision and official WB                                                                to Beneficiaries
communications
* Coordinate Bank - CDR relationship                                                                        I  Sector Ministries
The key tasks described under the respective CDR Departments
are indicative as these may be modHied pending CDR's                                                               Key   as
reorganization.                                                                                           I * Sector Coordination
Stakeholders               Municipalities      Local NGOs          Com     nits           Cuntr             Other Sector Ministries
0ev. Cntres     MOE, MOSA, MOPH,
MOIM, MOPWT, MOEW,
MOEnv.
9



Implementation Arrangements (Annex 4). The CDP will be implemented in two programs:
(i) integrated regional community development programs targeted geographically among priority
poverty clusters. It is estimated that about 20 PI programs will be contracted out to qualified and
experienced NGOs. A regional program will consist of an integrated package of interventions dealing
with several sectors, which will vary from community to community within the same cluster area in
accordance with their priority needs. A menu of interventions would include:
*  improving access to basic education, public health care and social services through the
rehabilitation and upgrading of schools, health, youth, cultural and recreation centers and facilities
in poor areas;
*  developing basic infrastructure activities such as community potable water supply, small
wastewater disposal schemes, small irrigation and drainage schemes, small access and agricultural
roads, land reclamation and rehabilitation of terraces; and
*  enhancing environmental protection activities such as reforestation and soil erosion control, wells,
and spring protection and preservation of natural resources and cultural heritage sites.
(ii) sector-specific themes at the national level. A number of sector-specific themes require attention at
the national level in order to complement and reinforce area-based programs. These would be
undertaken by qualified NGOs in liaison with the relevant sector ministry. These programs would
focus particularly on the needs of disadvantaged groups, such as:
*  design and operation of revolving textbook programs to assist poor families to keep children in
school;
*  design and training of trainers for functional adult literacy and post-literacy; and
*  improve access to specialized social services to satisfy the needs of the most vulnerable groups at
risk including the disabled, children, youth, women and the elderly. Included in this group is the
capacity building activities support to: (a) micro and small entrepreneurs and NGOs providing
credit to target beneficiary groups; and (b) women, youth and disabled people in order to provide
them with demand driven specialized skills to improve their income and enhance their business
opportunities. The program will also promote partnerships between lending organizations and
potential clients to expand the outreach of lending to the sector in a sustainable way.
These programs will be identified, designed and implemented by the PIs with the participation of the local
beneficiary communities or groups, local administration, and other grassroot entities. The PIs will be
required to review beneficiary proposals with the concerned sector ministries (Education, Health, Social
Affairs, Environment, etc.) to ensure that the proposed programs are consistent with the overall sector
policy and strategy as well as nationally adopted norms and standards, if available. Similar coordination
will be required with local municipalities to ensure that there is a commitment of the municipalities to
participate in and to assume responsibility for services requiring operation and maintenance upon
commissioning.
10



The PI programs will include subproject3 activities, in response to priority needs. Each activity will
include: (i) subproject description; (ii) objective; (iii) monitoring and evaluation indicators; (iv) location;
(v) costs; (vi) preparation work required for a complete design and its cost and time; (vii) implementation
arrangements including the type of subcontract and in-kind contribution; and (viii) commissioning
arrangements including community organizations for operation and maintenance of the subprojects.
Implementation of these activities will be done upon PI program approval by the CDR/Board. The PIs will
be solely responsible for the execution of the subprojects contracts through various procurement means
(Annex 6 gives detailed procurement guidelines). CDR/Board approval of these subprojects contracts will
not be necessary. The PMT, however, will monitor and evaluate PI's performance on a regular basis, and
will undertake selective post-reviews of subprojects including mandatory reviews for those classified EA
Category B and those above the thresholds for Bank prior review. PMT's subprojects reviews will be to
ensure compliance with the CDP OM.
The CDP OM will give detailed guidelines and instructions for: (i) transparent targeting mechanisms and
equitable allocation of resources; (ii) subproject eligibility, design and implementation; (iii) PIs' program
cycle; (iv) beneficiary social assessment; (v) project monitoring and impact indicators; (vi) reporting
requirements; (vii) procurement, disbursements and financial management; (viii) addressing gender
considerations; (ix) environmental guidelines; and (x) evaluation of PIs' programs.
Procurement and Financial Management
The Project will finance: (i) PMT services; (ii) technical assistance (TA) for capacity building and studies;
and (iii) implementation of PIs' programs. The initial procurement plan and the various procurement
methods to be used under the Project are explained in detail in Annex 6, and highlights are given below:
(i) PMT services will be provided by professional staff of a non-governmental organization or a
consulting firm or a joint venture thereof. The PMT will be primarily responsible for monitoring
procurement on behalf of the CDR, including PIs compliance with procedures. The PMT in
coordination with the PC and the relevant CDR Departments will be responsible for maintaining
accurate procurement records, including all actions related to Bank-financed procurement. This
includes advertisement, preparation of bids, invitation to bid, record of bid submissions, bid opening,
evaluation of bids, contract award and performance of the contracts. The procurement files will be
maintained for review by the Bank's supervision missions. The selection of the PMT will be in
accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines: Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
dated January 1997 (revised September 1997 and January 1999).
(ii) The selection of PI organizations, the TA consultants for capacity building, analyses, studies
and learning events (e.g., evaluation, workshops). The PIs will be qualified national and/or
international NGOs with experience in the management of regional social development programs.
Qualified PIs should demonstrate experience in implementation with the participation of beneficiary
groups and communities, local NGOs and private organizations, local govermment and sector
ministries, as appropriate. TA will be provided as required by either individual consultants or, in
some instances, by specialized private organizations. The selection of the PIs and the TA consultants
will be in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines: Selection of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, dated January 1997 (revised September 1997 and January 1999).
Subproject means any activity to develop the physical or social infrastructure of CDP targeted communities or to
render other services to these communities.
11



(iii) Implementation of PIs' programs will be conducted by the PIs in accordance with procedures
specified in the OM. These procurement procedures to be used by the PIs include national
competitive bidding (where applicable), national shopping, direct contracting, and procurement of
goods and small works with community participation.
The contracts for the PMT, the PIs, the auditor and consultants will be signed by the CDR. Payments will
be made directly by the CDR Finance Department against approved documentation reviewed by the PMT,
the CDR-PC and the CDR Finance Department.
Bank's Prior Review. All contracts above the thresholds defined in Annex 6 for works, goods, consultants
and services, direct contracting and the first contracts for works and for goods under each PI contract, will
be subject to prior review by the Bank. Also, consultants' services Terms of Reference (TOR) irrespective
of contract value, the PMT and the Pls contracts, and single source contracts will be subject to Bank's prior
review. It is estimated that about 15 percent of all contracts will be subject to prior review. All other
contracts will be subject to post-review and procurement audit on a random basis by the Bank.
Financial Management: Assessment of CDR's financial, accounting system and accounting policies and
procedures, budgeting system, reporting, staffing, internal controls policies and procedures, internal
auditing and external auditing arrangements were satisfactory and meet the Bank's minimum requirements.
However, the system lacks the support of a budgeting module and requires enhancement to become capable
of generating timely reports for project management.
CDR, throughout the Project, will be responsible for managing the project funds and all related financial
transactions. CDR will be assisted by the PMT, which will undertake, on behalf of CDR, project
accounting functions and reporting, including quarterly PMRs, in close coordination with CDR Finance
Department. The PMT's TOR for the project financial management will be defined in the PMT contract,
which is expected to be concluded by effectiveness (condition of effectiveness); specific procedures for
flow of funds and information will be the subject of a Manual of Procedures (MOP) between the CDR and
the PMT. However, during the interim period leading to a full development of the PMRs, estimated at
about six months from effectiveness (around end of June 2002), during which the Accounting and
Information System (AIS) will be tested and certified as being able to generate the PMRs, CDR will put in
place interim accounting and reporting arrangements to ensure proper accounting and reporting, while
ensuring smooth transfer of the accounting function to the PMT.
CDR will submit to the Bank quarterly project financial reports starting with the first quarter following the
first disbursement. It is expected that CDR will provide PMRs within 45 days starting with the quarter
ending on September 30, 2002. The action plan and reporting formats were agreed with CDR during
negotiations. These arrangements, including the action plan, are detailed in Annex 6.
CDR will make funds available to the PIs for preparation and implementation of their subprojects. The PIs,
mainly NGOs, whose selection will be based, inter alia, on the ability of their respective Financial
Management System (FMS) to meet the Bank requirements on financial management, will be responsible
for all financial transactions, accounting and reporting related to the project implementation. Their TORs,
RFPs and respective contracts will specify their roles in the FM of the Project, including budgeting, cash
forecasts, account's reconciliation and replenishments and periodic reporting. They will also be required to
submit to CDR/PMT annually audited financial statements, in accordance with international auditing
standards. Those audits by independent auditors, will be submitted within three months of the end of the
FY.
12



The Project's financial statements, including Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), PMRs and the Special
Account (SA) will be audited annually by an external independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards. CDR will submit the audit report to the Bank
no later than six months following the closing of the fiscal year subject to the audit. The audit's TOR will
be prepared and submitted for the Bank's no objection, no later than six months prior to the end of each
fiscal year. Audit costs will not be financed by the Bank Loan. CDR agreed to include in its auditor's
contract, TORs acceptable to the Bank for the CDP audits.
To ensure that funds are readily available for the project implementation, a Special Account in US dollars
will be opened at the Central Bank and will be operated by CDR. Initially, the Project will use SOE-based
disbursements and by July 2002 will convert to PMR-based disbursements, if CDR so wishes. It is
expected that PMRs will be submitted to the Bank on quarterly basis. CDR will advance funds to the PIs
once the PIs' FMSs are certified and the PIs' Project Accounts are opened in approved local commercial
banks. CDR will make funds available to PIs upon receiving requests for funds specifying the amounts of
funds needed for each quarter, accompanied by a cash-flow forecast based on the budgeted subproject
activities.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. The PMT will be responsible for monitoring progress against
agreed-upon output, process and impact indicators and performance indicators to be developed by the PIs
for each program. General guidelines for monitoring indicators to evaluate development objectives, to
measure process, outcome and outputs indicators, implementation progress, and project impact are detailed
in Annexes 1 and 4. These indicators were discussed during appraisal and were agreed at negotiations and
have been included in the OM.
The PIs will be required to design objective-oriented programs with specific locally-generated monitoring
indicators. Beneficiary assessment surveys will also be conducted by the PMT for representative areas and
investments to obtain qualitative and quantitative information to verify the monitoring data generated by
the PIs. Monitoring and evaluation reports will be reviewed at the beginning of each year to enable taking
corrective steps to ensure the efficient and effective implementation of the programs. The PMT and the
CDR-PC, in consultation with the Programs Department, will organize an annual internal evaluation of the
Project with the participation of all PIs. The second internal evaluation will be followed by the Project
mid-term review. These assessments will measure progress towards meeting the development objective,
and thus identify areas where adjustments are needed to the programs content and the implementation
process. Since national NGOs may not have adequate capacity and experience in management, the Project
provides resources to build capacity in this area. Also, the Bank Office in Lebanon will provide support on
financial management and procurement. Bank's supervision will include three missions in the first year
which will be reduced to two thereafter to monitor and to evaluate project implementation and achievement
of the Project objective. A Project Launching Workshop will be undertaken initially by the CDR and PMT,
and similar workshops will be organized during the PIs' RFP period and prior to starting the PI programs.
A workshop will be held at the end of the social assessments to: (i) review targeting and resource
allocation mechanisms to be adopted as part of the mid-term review; (ii) encourage beneficiary
participation in the review process; and (iii) review the learning experience obtained to that date.
13



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The need for a social, community-based operation was identified as early as 1995; however, the Project
developed at the time did not materialize because of: (i) political resistance to the idea of creating a new
autonomous Government institution; (ii) difficulties in allocating funds on a regional basis using poverty
targeting criteria; (iii) lack of an institutional culture on the side of the Government to promoting
participatory development through local NGOs; and (iv) absence of locally elected municipal councils,
which made it difficult for the Government to identify accountable organizations at the local level.
Since then, the enabling political environment for this type of project has matured. Local representation in
the country has greatly improved as a result of the May 1998 municipal elections. Among the encouraging
outcomes from these elections was the emergence of a new generation of municipal council members, who
took a more creative and forward looking perspective to local development in Lebanon. They are also
expected to promote a participatory approach to local development, as well as making extensive use of
their business connections for resource mobilization.
The current CDP design also addresses the institutional and targeting shortcomings of the operation
proposed in 1995. The CDP is housed within the CDR, thus enjoying the institutional benefits of being part
of an autonomous agency. Regional allocation of funds based on poverty targeting is also more feasible
today as a result of several socio-economic household surveys conducted since 1995, which provide a
better picture of the geography of poverty in Lebanon.
14



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                         Project                              (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                           Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Municipal infrastructure  First Municipal Infrastructure Project (Loan 7026-LE,  S          S
deficiency            ongoing)
Health coverage       Health Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3829-LE, ongoing)  S              S
deficiency and lack of
national health policy
framework
Education access and    General Education Project (Loan 7010-LE, ongoing)    S               S
quality deficiency
Lack of relevance of VT Vocational and Technical Education Project (Loan     U              U
programs to labor market 4298-LE, ongoing)
needs
Other development
agencies
USAID:                Reconstruction and Expanded Economic
Opportunity
The Project supports basic community infrastructure,
income-producing activities, civic participation and
environmental activities, with NGO intermediaries.
UNDPIMOSA:             National Program for Improving Living Conditions
of the Poor in Lebanon
The Project aims to reinforce on-going efforts to
understand the characteristics of the poor in Lebanon
and to strengthen the Ministry of Social Affairs to
develop a national framework for poverty reduction.
EU:                    Social and Economic Fund for Development
The Project supports credit financing through the
banking sector and community infrastructure.
UNDP/CDR               Post Conflict Socioeconomic Rehabilitation Program
for South Lebanon
UNDP/CDR               Support to the Regional Development Program for
Baalbek - Hermel
UNDP/Ministry of the   Reintegration and Socioeconomic Rehabilitation of
Displaced              the Displaced
lP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
15



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design:
Both the USAID and the UNDP are implementing community development programs in a number of
specific areas of Lebanon. The success of these programs is linked to factors such as: (i) project
implementation is carried out through experienced national and international NGOs, which act as
intermediaries; (ii) technical, administrative and financial management is carried out in a streamlined
manner; (iii) the adoption of a cluster-based approach where project beneficiaries and target areas are pre-
selected during project design; and (iv) there is an integrated output-based monitoring system.
The above elements of success are included in the design of the CDP, which would open opportunities of
coordinating with other donors. PIs will be dealing with a competitively selected, project management
team, which will make up the PMT at the CDR. In turn, the PMT would benefit from the CDR's
autonomous legal status which permits developing streamlined financial and procurement procedures. This
should ensure quick responsiveness to the procurement requests submitted by PIs and timely disbursement
of funds. As to the pre-selection of beneficiaries and target areas during project design, the CDP combines
a demand-driven approach at the local grassroots level, while targeting project funds according to a
regional poverty map.
The Bank has an extensive worldwide experience with socio-economic development funds, which includes
both success stories and failures. This experience shows that for operations to be successfully
implemented, a number of factors need to be present. These factors include: (i) a strong sense of
commitment at the highest levels of Government; (ii) a focused menu of interventions; (iii) a strong
management with operational autonomy; (iv) a transparent and detailed decision-making procedures with
regular financial and operational audits; (v) a demand-driven and simple community-based subproject
design to ensure local ownership; (vi) an outreach program that emphasizes bottom-up initiatives; and (vii)
a well established targeting and monitoring system. These operations also have important ancillary
benefits. They contribute to decentralization of service delivery, and to bring NGOs into a more
collaborative and coordinated relationship with the state. They also provide models of efficiency and
effectiveness, which may be used by other public sector agencies. The design of the CDP, which draws
heavily on experience with a large number of similar funds, incorporates these factors.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government recognizes the limited capacity and resource constraints of sector ministries in addressing
the social needs of disadvantaged communities. Consequently, it has decided to establish the CDP to serve
as an instrument that will allow communities to take direct responsibility for their social and basic
infrastructure needs, by promoting community management and encouraging community development
initiatives. Communities are expected to take the lead in planning and implementing development projects
based on their own needs, leaving sector ministries and central agencies to focus on national systems. This
is expected to lay the foundation for a gradual devolution of the management and operations of small social
infrastructure systems to the community level. In emphasizing more disadvantaged communities, the CDP
would confirm Government's commitment in addressing the issue of increasing income disparities in the
Lebanese society.
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project:
Bank's support for the CDP would help provide an element of neutrality, accountability and transparency in
the CDP operations. The Bank, through its already extensive experience with community-driven
approaches and partnership between Governments and NGOs is in a unique position to advise the
Government on the advantages and disadvantages of the project design. The Bank's experience in
16



establishing and organizing Social Funds worldwide, which included capacity building to strengthen
institutions, combined with the sectoral integrated approach to development, would be of benefit in the
design of the CDP. The Bank technical and financial support for the CDP, and subsequent project
supervision of the operation, are seen by the Government and potential foreign donors as essential elements
in promoting operational success and confidence in the integrity of the CDP. Considerable donor funding
could be secured provided an appropriate institutional mechanism for the involvement of the NGO sector is
devised, which is what the Bank is seeking to establish through the CDP.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the Project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit      NPV = US$  million; ERR=  % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Subprojects funded under the Social Infrastructure Development component, which would be small in size
and cost, would be selected on the basis of least-cost solutions. Least-cost assessment would be done in
comparison with unit costs to be compiled by the PIs and the PMT. The other project components,
improving access to an alternative income supplement and to social services, would be selected on the basis
of meeting the criteria for targeting and for basic needs. The Project would be designed to target the most
vulnerable groups who are not covered by other programs such as the First Municipal Infrastructure Project
(FMIP) partly funded by the Bank, in order to provide them with a social safety net to compensate for
negative impacts of the structural changes taking place in the economy of the country. There are no macro
economic issues to be addressed through the Project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The Project will not require cost recovery and the financial resources will be transferred as grants from the
Government to beneficiary communities, groups and organizations through CDR. However, the
infrastructure and some training components will make provisions for beneficiary in-kind contribution of
up to 25 percent of the cost of the program (or about US$5.00 million equivalent contribution over a five
year period) depending on the sector concerned.
On the micro credit component, the Project will finance, on a pilot basis, the capacity building and support
extension services to promote more coverage of credit facilities now provided by the banks and NGOs
catering to these customers. Regarding the sustainability of basic infrastructure improvements, a
commitment will be obtained from the beneficiary communities to make the necessary arrangements for
establishing operation and maintenance committees and maintenance funds upon commissioning of the
works.
Fiscal Impact:
Lebanon is experiencing a critical fiscal deficit (about US$3.90 billion in 2000) which the Government is
trying to address through various measures. However, considering that the level of annual Government
contribution to the Project will not exceed US$2.00 million, and that the Project will not require recurrent
expenditures as operation and maintenance will be a local responsibility, the financial impact that the
Project may have in the fiscal deficit is insignificant.
17



3. Technical:
The basic rural infrastructure improvements proposed under the Project would be small and simple, and as
such, the technical issues will be of minor concern. The designs will be based on least-cost methods to
rationalize investments. However, it is envisioned that the cost of subprojects will be reasonable and below
the construction industry market rate because such services will be provided mostly by NGOs. It should be
noted that the design of subprojects will be consistent with sector ministries strategies and standards. Most
works under the social services components would consist of rehabilitation and upgrading of schools,
health centers and the like. The designs of such works would be based on the most appropriate technology
and standards taking into consideration local environmental conditions and the cultural aspects of the
beneficiary communities. The average size of most works will be about US$30,000.00 equivalent (LBP 45
million). Category B subprojects will be required to prepare an environmental assessment and mitigatory
measures will be included in the design. Detailed environmental assessment guidelines are included in the
OM.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The fundamental institutional issues to be addressed through the Project relate primarily to two aspects: (i)
the roles of CDR and PMT in the management and implementation of the CDP; and (ii) the responsibility
to be given to PIs in the management and implementation of the subproject. In this regard, it is important
to include the role of concerned sector ministries, which because of their limited resources and capacity to
provide targeted services to marginal groups, would mainly play a standard-setting role in project planning
and implementation.
The organizational framework recommended for the Project as described below, would not only give the
CDR an opportunity to strengthen their management capacity and obtain expertise for working with NGOs
and marginalized communities, but it would also strengthen and support the role of NGOs in the delivery of
social services.
The overall organization will consist of the CDR at the top, as the executing agency of the Project, which
will have legal, financial and procurement oversight functions in addition to managing the loan proceeds.
The CDR has limited experience in working with NGOs and implementing social development programs
such as those included in the design of the CDP. However, the CDR has already taken some initial steps to
strengthen its institutional capacity by employing qualified staff in the Programs and Projects Departments
with experience in NGO operations and social and community development programs.
The CDR may undergo an institutional restructuring in which adequate provisions will be made to enable it
to properly manage social development programs. In this context, recently, the CDR entered into an
agreement with the European Union (EU) under which it will set up a social fund secretariat to manage the
EU-sponsored Social and Economic Fund for Development. This fund will primarily support the micro
enterprise development sector by providing financial resources through banks catering to the sector. The
timing for this social fund secretariat to be operational, however, does not coincide with the
implementation of the CDP. It should be noted that, eventually when the EU program starts
implementation, the CDP will complement this program by providing capacity building and extension
support services to existing and prospective micro credit clients to promote, in a sustainable way, the
development of the micro enterprise sector. The CDR's experience to be obtained through these operations
will give it the required capacity to manage such programs in future.
18



4.2 Project management:
The CDR will implement the CDP supported by a Project Management Team (PMT) for the day-to-day
administration of the Project. To coordinate the work of the PMT within the CDR, a Project Coordinator
(CDR-PC) has been appointed who will report directly to the CDR President. The CDR-PC will serve as
the focal contact to manage project coordination within the CDR (Section C and Annex 11). The
contracting of the PMT with full core staff is a condition for loan effectiveness. CDR will also develop the
capacity to derive lessons learned from each stage of the process, e.g., targeting, social assessment, and
beneficiary involvement.
The PMT services will be contracted out following competitive procedures to experienced and qualified
private sector organizations which may include management consulting firms and NGOs, or joint-ventures
of both. The issues foreseen with this arrangement would be those associated with the working relationship
between the PMT and the CDR. However, during negotiations, assurances were obtained from CDR in
delegating the responsibility to the PMT to manage and supervise the implementation of the project in an
expeditious way (Annexes I1 and 12). The OM specify detailed implementation and reporting
arrangements for the PMT. During negotiations, assurances were also obtained on the CDR's streamlined
management functions to be limited to the review, approval and signing of contracts (PMT, PIs, auditors
and consultants) and making corresponding payments, and the approval of PI programs, thus leaving the
day-to-day administration and supervision of approved PI programs to the PMT. During appraisal, to
expedite management decisions at the CDR, agreement was reached with the CDR by which the PMT will
report directly to the President of CDR through the CDR-PC.
The CDP will be implemented in two programs: (i) regional integrated development community-driven
programs for specific poverty clusters; and (ii) specific sector themes to be implemented nationwide
targeting beneficiary groups. These programs will be designed and implemented by PIs. The PIs will be
responsible for carrying out, at the onset of the regional programs, social assessments of the beneficiary
communities to identify poverty clusters, on the basis of which they will prepare demand-driven grassroots
priority needs programs (PI programs). The PIs, in the preparation of these programs, will be required to
coordinate the initiatives with all concerned stakeholders, which may include local organizations, local
government and sector ministries. Each PI program will include the subprojects implementation time
frame, location, description, cost, and procedures or arrangements for execution (including the monitoring
and evaluation indicators), how the beneficiary's in-kind contribution will be factored in the cost,
subproject preparation cost and time, and an initial environmental screening. It would also include the
arrangements for operation and maintenance upon commissioning of the works, as required. In order to
minimize the risks associated with program implementation, the PIs will be selected among national and
international NGOs with experience in the management of such programs (Annex 13) using competitive
procedures based on qualifications and cost to undertake a social assessment and the management fee to
implement the approved program. The OM gives clear and specific guidelines for the roles and
responsibilities of the Pls and thus minimizing any possible implementation delays.
4.3 Procurement issues:
NGO's participation in the CDP is not sought as an end in itself, but rather because of the potential benefits
it would bring for the achievement of the CDP goals, such as, a sustainable demand-driven development
enhancing the active participation of beneficiary communities.
The introduction of World Bank funds runs the risk of stimulating a proliferation of new NGOs whose
main goal would be to gain access to available funding resources. However, these concerns will be
addressed through a realistic eligibility and selection criteria included in the CDP OM. The proposed
19



Project component for capacity building of PIs will be the basic tool that will enable the PIs to minimize
this risk. However, care will be taken to ensure that the eligibility and selection criteria do not exclude
smaller, younger or less formal, but competent local organizations. It should be noted that small local
NGOs may have less capacity and may require technical assistance, but they might have stronger grassroots
links, which would prove to be more effective for the sustainability of subprojects. Also, care will be taken
to ensure that the eligibility and selection criteria will not create monopolies of well established NGOs,
which would hinder the development of new organizations.
It is estimated that about twenty PI contracts would be required. Each contract will include all aspects of a
project cycle from conducting social assessments, identification of priority needs, preparation and appraisal
of programs of priority subprojects to execution of approved programs in a pre-defined geographical area
or on a sector specialization theme. Each contract would include works, goods and services initiatives;
however, the PIs contracts for vocational training and capacity building in support to micro credit schemes
would be limited to services. A risk of protracted project implementation associated with the employment
of the PMT and the PIs has been anticipated through the provisions included in the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) for the early procurement of these consulting services. The PIP includes a detailed procurement
plan for the project and assurances were obtained at negotiations for the CDR to expedite procurement of
these services prior to effectiveness. The selection of the PMT and the PIs will be made in accordance with
criteria that would only include those with the required qualifications to be short-listed (Annexes 12 and
13). In order to assist both the CDR and the participating organizations, pre-bid conferences will be
scheduled early in the procurement period to give clarifications to TORs and contractual responsibilities,
which will enable them to present complete offers or make arrangements for joint-ventures to strengthen
their proposals.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Project requires continuous monitoring and follow up. The selection criteria of the PMT and the PIs is
a key factor for the success of the Project. The capability of the PMT to comply with the Bank's financial
requirements and the ability of the PIs to meet the minimum of these requirements is a key factor for the
success of the Project.
The financial actions of the Project will require intensive supervision during the start up phase and during
implementation at the CDR/PMT and Pls levels. Bank supervision, provided by the country office, should
intensify during pre-effectiveness period to ensure that the implementation of the financial management
action plan is on time, and the PMT accounting system has been configured to replicate CDR ledger to
generate the required quarterly reports (PMRs). Thereafter, Bank missions will consist of visits to
PMT/CDR and field trips to selected PIs to review financial management practices, procurement and
payments procedures and support documentation.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
During the preparation and appraisal activities, the types of subprojects and the potential impacts were
reviewed. Generally, the subprojects are small civil works to be constructed as additions to existing small
scale infrastructure whose environmental impact is local and minor (e.g., school repairs and school room
additions, repairs to health clinics, repairs and provision of school bathrooms, improve access roads to
public facilities and agricultural fields, improve or provide drainage culverts and ditches to prevent road
20



hazards and mitigate environmental damage to existing roads, improve or provide irrigation ditches, repairs
of small water supply wells, pumps and piping and spring sources, upgrade performance of wastewater
disposal systems to mitigate environmental hazards, and similar small works). However, the subprojects
are not yet identified and the specific geographic locations are not known, as subprojects will be selected
according to a "demand-driven" selection process by communities upon completion of the social and needs
assessments by PIs. For these reasons, the environmental implications of each initiative will be identified
at the review of the PI program stage, that is subproject identification, at which time the program will be
screened and those subprojects classified EA Category B will be subject to further review by the PMT,
CDR and the Bank. Subprojects classified EA Category B will be required to be designed taking into
account environmental criteria set up in the Environmental Guidelines included in the CDP OM.
Therefore, PIs responsible for subproject implementation will be required to employ qualified
environmental experts for the design and implementation of the EA Category B subprojects to ensure
adequate mitigative measures are included as an integral part of the subproject, and beneficiary
communities will be made aware on the importance of the environmental aspects of the subproject for
which adequate measures will be included for sustainability. The CDP EA Guidelines provide the
necessary guidance to both the PMT and PIs to determine the level of environmental mitigation planning
required (e.g., a complete EA report or a simple EMP).
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
During CDP appraisal, the draft Environmental Guidelines were reviewed and agreed upon with the CDR
and have been incorporated in the CDP OM. The Environmental Guidelines will ensure that all
subprojects and programs are screened by the PMT, and that initiatives which are classified as EA
Category B, will include in the preparation report and design a full EA report or a simple EMP indicating
the proposed mitigation measures, including monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, to ensure compliance
with the Bank's safeguard policies.
To ensure effective implementation of these procedures, the PIs will be required to employ environmental
experts for the design and implementation of subprojects classified EA Category B, and the PMT,
responsible for CDP supervision, will retain the services of environmental experts as needed to screen the
PI programs and identify those subprojects considered EA Category B. The PMT will also retain the
services of these experts as needed for the periodic supervision of EA Category B subprojects to ensure
compliance with the EA Guidelines. The CDP includes a provision for capacity building of PIs, beneficiary
communities and local NGOs in all aspects of the Project including the environmental requirements. The
PIs' services for subprojects such as sanitation works, will also include the organizing and training of the
local entities that will be responsible for the proper operation and maintenance of the facilities to ensure
sustainability. The PMT services will include a budget for environmental management of US$120,000 to
cover the cost of any sampling and laboratory testing, and services for specialized environmental tasks
when required. These procedures are considered adequate, and are incorporated in the project cost for the
planning, design, construction and supervision.
5.3 For Category A and B Projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:                not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
21



The Environmental Guidelines included in the CDP OM establish the requirements for environmental
assessment of initiatives. It should be noted that preparation of initiatives will be done by local NGOs with
the assistance of the PIs, and with the close participation of key stakeholders. Proposals of initiatives will
be demand-driven originated at the grassroots.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Procedures and techniques for monitoring the environmental impacts of subprojects are included in the
Environmental Guidelines. To implement objective-oriented monitoring and environmental awareness,
training workshops will be organized by the PMT, for PIs (at RFPs and at post selection stages), NGOs and
beneficiary communities and other stakeholders participating in subproject implementation. The training
will include: the purposes and use of indicators, methods of action-oriented reporting, the effectiveness of
mitigation measures, how to prepare EMPs, and other subproject related environmental concerns.
6. Social:
6.1 Key social issues and social development outcomes (social issues: poverty, targeting, community
participation, monitoring, evaluation and gender are integrated in Annex 4).
As a result of the dislocation and destruction of war and economic shocks, there remain large
concentrations of social and economic deprivation. The Government and private investment has primarily
targeted national projects and key infrastructure sectors to attract private additional investment and
stimulate growth. Numerically, the areas of greatest need fall in four large geographic clusters. These are:
(i) the north, including the extremely deprived rural district of Akkar which, together with the deprived
urban core of Tripoli, and the district of Miniye, accounts for over a third of the national poverty; (ii)
Greater Beirut, which has a lower proportion of deprivation than the rest of the country but where, by
sheer weight of numbers, over one quarter of the need is located; (iii) the south, severely affected by
occupation and war; and (iv) the eastern Bekaa districts of Hermel and Baalbeck. Other areas where
there are smaller concentration of poverty are: (i) the mountainous area of Jbeil - Batroun -Bcharreh; (ii)
West Bekaa (Rachaya -Hasbayya); and (iii) Saida -Chouf.
Common characteristics of deprived areas or vulnerable and excluded groups is low employment, and low
employment opportunities. These conditions tend to be self-perpetuating at the macro, meso and micro
levels. Factors include the expected effects of economic adjustment and poor prospects for growth in
employment; the unattractive investment climate of such areas for new economic ventures; and the
intergenerational reproduction of poverty through poor education, health, employment skills and
expectations.
Existing initiatives, supported by NGOs and other international agencies, show that these conditions can be
reversed and a positive dynamnic established, through initiatives targeted to needy areas; both the material
and non-material aspects of poverty can be and are being reversed, in some cases with positive impacts on
civil society processes and communal trust and cooperation. However, such activities remain scattered.
The Project's social development outcomes would therefore not be limited to the alleviation of specific
material and non-material conditions of poverty in areas of greatest need. The most important outcome is
the reinforcement of a dynamic community-NGO-Government (and sometimes private sector) partnership.
This dynamic development favors community initiatives and development planning based on needs. For
22



this Project, the expected key social development outcome is therefore a documented process of how this
partnership can be developed and put to the service of poverty alleviation.
This outcome will be able to contribute to the Government's formulation of a national strategy of poverty
alleviation that will be inclusive, sustainable, equitable and participatory.
6.2 Participatory Approach
The participatory approach is integral to this Project. Local NGOs with the support of the Pls would work
closely - as many are already doing - with the beneficiary communities, the municipalities, and other local
representatives of concerned ministries, to identify priority needs and formulate subproject proposals for
CDP funding. Several examples already exist of local level steering committees and groups that bring
together a wider than normal range of stakeholders for project identification and management. The
capacity of PIs in developing gender sensitive assessments and community action plans would be
developed in the first phase of the Project by a competent national level NGO (Annex 4) and evaluated
thereafter.
6.3 How does the Project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Selected NGOs would be the main intermediaries for project implementation. At the beneficiary level,
local NGOs and community-based organizations (CBOs) would play a key role in the identification of
priority needs and the formulation and implementation of subprojects. NGO programs would be developed
as a result of an intensive participatory social assessment with local communities, municipalities and other
stakeholders. Other national level NGOs would play key roles in capacity building (e.g., gender in
development).
6.4 Institutional arrangements to ensure the Project achieves its social development outcomes.
Project implementation relies substantially on a participatory approach of key stakeholders, and subprojects
would be demand-driven to ensure they represent stakeholders priorities. This approach would promote
Project ownership and sustainability by beneficiaries and concerned central and local government. The
institutional arrangements for project management are specifically designed to ensure transparency in the
selection of project areas, partners or beneficiaries. Each PI program will have a participatory monitoring
and evaluation component for social development outcomes.
6.5 How will the Project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Each local subproject has indicators for output, process and impact. At the project level, provision is made
for the implementing agency (CDR) to evaluate and capture in its institutional memory the project's
performance in social development outcomes. This would be done through local studies, field visits,
workshops, periodic reviews and a report for mid-term evaluation. Process monitoring would address a
range of questions including: how fully local communities have participated in social assessment and its
findings; the consultative process in defining priority subprojects; how effectively communities participate
in monitoring and evaluation; and what means have been most effective in overcoming obstacles to
inclusive and effective community participation.
23



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the Project?
Policy                      eApplcability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)    Yes
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)             No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                             No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                               No
.Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                           Yes
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                            No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                      No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                       No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)   No
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.    ..   .   I.....    ...
7.2 Describe provisions made by the Project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The OM includes EA guidelines for the preparation of EAs of initiatives which may fall under Category B
and to protect cultural property (national legislation already protects chance finds). The OM also includes
provisions for compliance with gender and disability requirements.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
CDP design. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the fundamental principles of the CDP
design to ensure sustainability: (i) the participatory approach to be adopted throughout the project cycle;
and (ii) the strengthening of stakeholders partnerships. The PIs, while conducting the social assessment of
the project area, will identify the grassroot community organizations in place or that should be established
and the key stakeholders who should play a role in the development process in the various initiatives. The
stakeholders, with the assistance of the PIs, will identify the priority needs and the commitments they will
have to make to ensure sustainability of such services. This process will strengthen stakeholders' ownership
of the services provided by the CDP. The extent of beneficiary in-kind contribution will be a measure of
the stakeholders commitment to and importance of the services provided. This commitment will be
extended to the operation and maintenance of such services for which the PIs will help in organizing
beneficiary special committees and establishing maintenance funds. These committees will be provided
with training by the Pls on adequate operation and maintenance techniques, and they will be assisted in
establishing a maintenance fund to cover the financial needs of the improved services for two years in
advance, which would be replenished periodically. The Pls will use every opportunity presented by the
participatory approach to strengthen local capacity and stakeholders partnerships, particularly the
govemment-local NGO-community relations.
Micro credit component. This component will be a pilot operation to identify and test innovative ways to
overcome the constraints to the growth of the micro enterprise sector. Design measures will be taken to
reduce any risks which hinge primarily in the trust and commitment required for the participation of
concerned stakeholders (banks, NGOs, training organizations and potential clients). The June 2000 Bank
24



study of the microfinance sector in Lebanon, carried out to complement the 1999-2000 poverty study,
revealed that the major constraint to further expansion of the sector does not rest on the lack of financial
resources but on the lack of training and support services (business management, product quality and
marketing) both to the small and micro entrepreneurs on one hand and to the NGOs lending organizations
on the other.
The NGO study revealed that very few lending organizations practice sustainable and sound banking
operations, a condition that places at risk their sustainability. Thus, the participatory mechanisms and
flexibility to be used in the design of these pilot programs by PIs will serve as the basis for ensuring a firm
commitment of the main partners (banks and NGOs on one side and potential clients on the other, with the
training and support organizations as the catalysts). It should be noted that the lessons learned from this
demonstration project would be used by the Government and donors in the design of larger programs for
targeting the self-employable low-income groups.
25



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
, - { i Rtira,. :s ff RbkMit easur ..............................   .. ... ........................l
Risk              Risk                             Risk Mitigation Measure
RaIng
From Outputs to Objective
Government resources are      M    Government counterpart funds will be required by the CDR.
not provided on a timely
basis.
I Ineffective implementation  M    Provisions have been made in the project to hold Project implementation workshops
by PIs.                            prior to the selection of PIs; PIs will have to meet qualification criteria to be short
listed; and Project launching workshops and seminars to strengthen the capacity of
NGOs have been included in the Project. Also project implementation will be
supervised regularly by the PMT.
Political interference in the  H    The Operations Manual contains very clear criteria and procedures, confirmed at
targeting of priority areas        negotiations, that will ensure the selection of initiatives and priorities in accordance
and selection of priority          with objective needs definitions and community priorities.
needs.
From Components to
Outputs
Local NGOs may fail to        N    The Project includes resources to build capacity of local NGOs on all aspects of
effectively take part in           project cycle including sustainability upon commissioning of the programs.
programs implementation.
Beneficiary communities       N    The Project will require beneficiary participation in all aspects of the project from
may lose interest in and           selection of priority needs to execution and operation and maintenance to ensure
commitment to the Project.         ownership. Implementing PIs will be required to work closely with beneficiaries
throughout the entire process to provide the necessary support and promote
participation.
The CDR procedures may        S    The Legal Documents make clear provisions defining the roles and responsibilities  I
m result in protracted day-to-      of the PMT and of the CDR. During negotiations, an agreement was reached with
day project management by          CDR and the Board appointed a full time Project Coordinator (CDR-PC) and
the PMT.                           approved to have both the CDR-PC and the PMT to report directly to the CDR
President. The Board also issued an instruction to the Departments Directors to
cooperate in expediting the CDP implementation. Bank supervision of the Project  I
will follow-up closely the execution of the Project.
Lack of coordination with     S    The Project design provides for the PIs to assume full responsibility in coordinating I
sector ministries and local        at the local level with sector ministries and local government from the early stages of
governments may cause              subproject identification, and the PMT subproject appraisal will also ensure that all
implementation delays.             required coordination has been done on a timely basis. CDR will provide support in
coordinating with sector ministries and municipalities as required, particularly at the
national level.
t ~ ~~~                         ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ..... . .   .  .... ...............   .   ..  ... ..   ...........
Overall Risk Rating           S       l
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
26



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Geographical targeting and selection of NGO partners might prove controversial if it becomes politicized.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) The Subsidiary Agreement4 has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CDR.
(b) The PMT has been established with professional staff in adequate numbers and with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower has prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnished to the
Bank a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) satisfactory in form and in substance to the Bank.
(d) The Borrower has prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnished to the
Bank the Operations Manual satisfactory in form and in substance to the Bank.
The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
-  The contents of the draft OM.
-  The contents of the draft PIP and specifically the procurement for the PMT, PIs, and the availability of
the management system (Annexes 2 and 6).
*  TORs for the PMT and PIs (Annexes 12 and 13).
*  The timing for amending the audit firm contract in accordance with TORs acceptable to the Bank.
4 Subsidiary Agreement means the agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the
Loan Agreement.
27



H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1 (a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
El 1 (b) Not applicable.
O  2.   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
IP  3.   The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O  4.   The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
I 1. This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The Project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Bassam Ramadan                         s F. Baudouy            Joseph . SAba
Task Team Leader           --    Sector Director                Pountry Director
28



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring &  1  Critical Assumptions
__________________                              ~~~~~~~Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
reports:
To upgrade the human resource  Evidence of sustainable        Poverty profile   Political commitment to
base and address poverty in target  improvement in the provision of  studies    poverty reduction by targeting
underprivileged areas.         social services and basic      UNDP Human        resources to needy areas.
infTastiuctme, and enhanced   Development
conditions for income generation  Reportspdee Political commitment to
in poor marginal areas.                         developing a national strategy
to fight poverty.
Incidence and depth of poverty in
targeted areas.                                 Reduced vulnerability of the
poor to structural and
Human development indicators.                   economic changes.
Project Development Objective   Outcome / Impact Indicators:   Project reports:   (from Objective to Goal)
Establish an effective and     Evolution in the diversity,    Project           Improved: (i) access to social
sustainable instrument to improve  quantity, quality and cost of  implementation  services (health and
the living conditions and the  services accessed or accessible by  reports      education), basic infrastructure
economic status in economically   less advantaged communities.                  (potable water, sanitation and
disadvantaged communities.                                    Midterm review    access roads): and (ii) income
The number, distribution and  (M )               generation opportunities
socio-economic profile of     Technical and      (vocational training and access
beneficiaries.                financial audit    to credit).
reports
ICR
Participatory
beneficiary
assessments
The number and distribution of                   Government support to
local communities in targeted                   strengthen the role of NGOs in
areas with implemented CDP                      services delivery and
subprojects.                                     sustainability.
The documentation and         Workshop reports  Participation and commitment
communication at national level of               of beneficiary communities, 
achievements and lessons learned  Field-based studies local governments and local
and the effectiveness of the  and analyses      NGOs.
instrument, including selected  Analyses of      Beneficiary monitoring is
development indicators.       monitoring, process effective.
and output
indicators
29



Hierarchy of        i       :          f    c      c           Mo     rig &          Critical Assptions
fro  each           0        t                                  Evluwation        --
Output from each Component:   Output Indicators:              Project reports:      (from Outputs to Objective)
Component 1: eligible communities TBD* people benefited from  Quarterly project      Government provides required
benefit from: improved basic   improved social services and    implementation       resources on a timely basis.
education, health and social    facilities; and TBD* people    monitoring
services; rehabilitated or upgraded  benefiting from improved access  Disbursement reports
social services facilities; special   to basic infrastructure.
social programs for vulnerable
groups; and improved access to       p
basic rural infrastructure and  groups benefited from special
basic rural Infrastructure and  soilpgris
improved environmental          social programs.
conditions.
Component 2: Vocational training   TBD* eligible people trained;    Bank supervision  Project Intermediaries (PIs)
and capacity building in support of  and TBD* micro credit loans  report             effectively implement the
self-employment programs        supported.                                           programs.
successfully carried out.                                      MTR report
ICR
Component 3: Effective CDP     Timely and successful CDP      Consultant's report on   No political interference in the
management and successful CDP   project implementation.        training program.     targeting of priority areas and
monitoring and evaluation yields                                                     selection of priority needs.
timely and successful CDP project Working system of upwardly  Workshop reports.
implementation and reliable    aggregated indicators in place.    Field-based studies and
monitoring and evaluation       Good monitoring indicators on    analysis.
indicators analyzed and         process, progress, output and  Analysis of monitoring,
documented.                     outcome indicators in place,   process and output
National and local NGOs         successfully collected and     indicators.
effectively and timely implement   analyzed, and documented in a
social development programs and  report.
lessons learned adequately      TBD* number of NGOs
documented.                     successfully trained.
Learning experience report
completed.                                          l
IIierarcy    btives          Key Performanc iicators          Mor-ng                  rtical Assumptions
______   _ _____  _______________    _      P o  e  aluation r
Project Components / Sub-      Inputs: (budget for each       Project reports:      (from Components to
components:                    component)                                           Outputs)
Part A: Social and Infrastructure   US$22.5 m.                 Quarterly project     Local NGOs effectively
Development                                                   implementation         participate in PI programs
Monitoring and       t implementation.
disbursements reports.
Part B: Income Enhancement     US$3.0 m.                       Bank supervision      Beneficiary communities
MTR report            maintain interest and
ICR                   commitment.
Part C: Project Management      US$4.5 m.                                            CDR procedures do not cause
Support                                                                              delays in the day-to-day
project management by the
PMT.
Successful coordination with
sectoral ministries and local
i ___________________________   ________________________                             governm ent.
* TBD = These figures will be determined upon completion of the social assessments and the demand-driven priority needs
identified with stakeholders participation.
30



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
By Part
Part A: Social and Infrastructure Development (US$22.50 million)
Provision of subproject grants for:
(1) carrying out social assessments and designing programs of subprojects; and
(2) the implementation of programs of subprojects which consists of: (a) improving access to basic
education, health and social services through the rehabilitation and service upgrading of schools,
health, youth, cultural and recreation centers and facilities in poor areas; (b) carrying out programs
for revolving school textbooks, literacy, and primary health care; (c) improving access to
specialized social services to satisfy the needs of vulnerable groups at risk including the disabled,
children, youth, women and the elderly; (d) developing basic rural infrastructure activities such as
community potable water, small waste water disposal schemes, small irrigation and drainage
schemes, small access and agricultural roads, land reclamation and rehabilitation of terraces; and
(e) enhancing environmental protection initiatives such as reforestation and soil erosion control,
wells and spring protection and preservation of natural resources and cultural heritage sites.
Part B: Income Enhancement (US$3.00 million)
Provision of subproject grants for capacity building activities to support:
(1) micro and small entrepreneurs and non-governmental organizations providing credit to target
beneficiary groups; and
(2) women, youth and disabled people in order to provide them with demand driven specialized skills
to improve their income and enhance their business opportunities.
Part C: Project Management Support (US$4.50 million)
Provision of technical advisory services and training for project management and for support to
CDR and the PIs to ensure the effective carrying out of the Project and the supervision of its
execution.
Project Implementation Action Plan
The CDP will be implemented by the CDR with the support of a PMT. The Project implementation will be
in accordance with the CDP PAD, LA, PA, PIP and OM. The Project consist of two phases: (i) from
appraisal to loan effectiveness; and (ii) from loan effectiveness to project completion. Appraisal was
conducted from April 23 to May 7, 2001 followed by negotiations, in the field, from May 8 to 11, 2001. It
is estimated that loan effectiveness may take place in January 2002, or about eight months from the end of
appraisal. Phase two will be implemented in a period of about four and a half years from effectiveness, or
by about June 30, 2006, thus Loan Closing would take place on December 31, 2006, or about five and a
half years from Bank approval of the Loan (see the following table):
31



Project Implementation Plan
Dates             _Actinties                                                    Responsibility    Status
Phase 1: April 23,2001 to December 17,2001
April 23 - May 7, 2001   Project Appraisal                                             CDR, WB
May 8-11, 2001        Loan negotiations                                                CDR, WB         Completed
June 18, 2001         To issue GPN and SPN for PMT "Expression of Interest"            CDR             At UNDB
June 25, 2001         To issue SPN for PI assignment                                   CDR
June 26, 2001         Approval of the CDP Loan                                         WB
July 13, 2001         To receive PMT "Expression of Interest"                          CDR
July 16,2001          To submit TOR for RPAI for WB review                             CDR
July 27, 2001         To issue no objection on TOR for RPA1                            WB
July 30, 2001         To submit short-list for PMT assignment   __CDR
August 3, 2001        To issue no objection to short-list for PMT assignment           WB
August 6, 2001        To issue RFP for PMT                                             CDR
August 13, 2001       PMT pre-bid conference                                           CDR, WB
August 24, 2001       To submit no objection to the short-list of PIs                  CDR
September 7, 2001     To receive/open PMT proposals                                    CDR
September 7, 2001     To issue no objection to the short-list of PIs.                  WB
September 10, 2001    To issue RFP for RPAI (First PIs)                                CDR
September 17, 2001    RPAI pre-bid conference                                          CDR/lWB/PIs
September 21, 2001    To submit PMT technical proposal evaluation report to WB for review    CDR
and no objection
September 28, 2001    To sign Loan Agreement                                           GOL, WB
September 28, 2001    To issue no objection to PMT contract award                      WB
October 15, 2001      To submit PMT final evaluation of proposals an recommendation for    CDR
contract award
October 19, 2001      To issue no objection to PMT final evaluation of proposal.       WB
October 19, 2001      To receive RPA1 proposals                                        CDR
October 29, 2001      To submit PMT contract negotiations for WB review                CDR
November 2, 2001      To issue no objection to PMT contract                            WB
November 16, 2001     To submit technical evaluation of RPA1 for WB review             CDR
November 23, 2001     To sign PMT contract                                             PMT/CDR
November 30, 2001     To issue no objection to RPAI technical evaluation               WB
December 3, 2001      To receive approval from GOL's Parliament for LA and PA          CDR/MOF
December 14, 2001     To submit final evaluation of RPA 1 proposal for WB review       CDR
December 21, 2001     To issue no objection to final evaluation of RPA1 proposal       WB
January 7, 2001       To submit negotiated contract of RPAI for WB review              CDR
Phase 2: January 15, 2002 to December 31, 2006
January 15, 2002      Loan becomes effective                                           WB
January 15, 2002      To request WB to deposit initial Special Account                 CDR
January 18, 2002      To issue no objection to RPAI contract                           WB
February 8, 2002      RPAI contract becomes effective                                  CDR/Pls
December 2002         To hold Project review workshop                                  CDR, PMT, WB
June 2004             Mid-term review                                                  CDR, PMT, WB
June 30, 2006         Project completion activities                                    CDR, PMT, WB
December 2006         To approve project implementation completion report (ICR)        CDR, WB
December 31, 2006     Loan closing                                                     CDR, WB
Note: For other procurement activities, see Annex 6.
32



World Bank Supervision
Bank staff supervision of the CDP would normally require two supervision missions per year to review
implementation progress and follow-up compliance with the LA, PA, PIP, OM and the Bank guidelines. A
mid-term review mission would be launched in the third year and an implementation completion mission in
the last year. Each mission would consist of a task team leader, a social scientist, and a social infrastructure
sector specialist. An environmental specialist will be required at least once a year depending on the
number of Category B programs identified. These missions will be supplemented by periodic procurement
and financial management supervision activities carried out by the Bank Office in Lebanon.
In the first year of Project execution, that is after Bank approval of the Loan, it is estimated that about three
Bank missions will be required to maintain adequate momentum in support of the CDR in the start-up of
the project. During this period, and at the time of requesting for proposals for the PMT consultancy and the
PI programs, pre-bid conferences will be held in support of the CDR to answer any questions and issue
clarifications to the process and to the nature of the consultancy management services. Upon appointment
of the PMT, a Project launching workshop will be held in order to give the PMT's and the CDR's project
staff, senior management and board the required guidelines and clarifications to expedite project
implementation. A similar pre-bid conference will be required during the period of procurement of
potential PIs candidates to ensure giving them a clear guidance for the preparation and presentation of
proposals. Specific Project launching workshops will be held by the PMT, CDR and the PIs at the onset of
the PI contracts, at which time the CDP OM, the social assessments, specific program design
considerations and monitoring indicators and reporting systems will be discussed in order to properly
document the lessons learned.
Activities                                Period
Initial missions                               IAugust, September, December 2001
Project launch                                  Mid-February 2002
First supervision                               JulY 2002
Second supervision                              December 2002
Third supervision                               July 2003
Fourth supervision (mid-term review)            December 2003
Fifth supervision                               July 2004
Sixth supervision                               December 2004
Seventh supervision                             July 2005
Eight supervision (preparation for project closing)   December 2005
Ninth supervision (preparation for project closing)   July 2006
Loan is closed                                  December 31, 2006
Composition of mission: Task Team Leader, Social Scientist, Social Infrastructure Sector Specialist,
Financial Management Specialist, Procurement Specialist, and Environmental Specialist
(as required).
33



Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
The CDR will be responsible for overall project execution. The CDR Project Coordinator (CDR-PC) will
supervise the day-to-day project administration carried out by the PMT. The CDR-PC will also coordinate
within the CDR all required approvals by senior management and the board, as well as to ensure that all
contracts are expeditiously signed and corresponding payments are made to contractors (PMT, PIs and
technical assistance consultants). Consultants will be hired to undertake social impact assessments,
technical and financial audits of the CDP as required in order to have independent unbiased evaluations of
social, economic, environmental, technical and financial aspects of the programs and of compliance with
Bank procedures. All Project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs/PMRs, will be subject to
annual audits by a qualified independent auditor in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank. The audit reports will be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each year.
The Government has agreed to include in CDR's auditor contract terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
for the CDP audits.
The CDR has participated in the preparation of the CDP PIP and OM and has actively participated in the
CDP design. The CDR will participate in all workshops, Bank supervision missions, the mid-term review
and the completion missions. The Bank will provide the CDR the necessary guidance for its participation in
these missions and particularly in the completion missions and report. The CDR with the assistance of the
PMT will submit for the Bank's review and no objection, quarterly and annual implementation progress
reports and audits of project accounts. The CDR-PC will ensure that the PMT does all the required project
supervision work as specified in the OM, and will ensure through the PMT that all PI contracts are
executed in accordance with the contractual obligations and the OM. The CDR with the support of the
PMT will maintain a computerized data base for use in project management and future reference.
The CDR will also play a major role in coordinating the learning experience and on-going evaluation of the
project. The PMT, in collaboration with the CDR Programs Director, PIs, local NGOs and community
representatives, will undertake studies to determine the effectiveness of targeting. Beneficiary inclusion
and participation in subproject selection, monitoring and impact assessment, and the process assumptions
underlying impact, gender sensitivity, sustainability, etc. The CDR will convene workshops of interested
stakeholders including MOSA and other sector ministries, other development assistance agencies, and
specialists from civil society and academia to consolidate and review lessons learned.
Finally, the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the timely provision of the counterpart funds, and it
will have fiduciary responsibility to ensure the CDR's timely project implementation in accordance with the
terms of the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement.
34



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs*
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
Local       Foreip        Total
Project Cost By Component                      US$ million  US$ million U US$ million
^-~~~~~                                              ~      ~~~~~~~~ t---~--*~ ..---- ._          .. I
PART A--Provision of Subproject Grants for:
(1)  Carrying out social assessments and designing programs of   l    0.40         0.10         0.50
subprojects.
(2a) Improving access to basic education, health and social services  12.35        1.31         13.66**
through the rehabilitation and service upgrading of schools,
health, youth, cultural and recreation centers and facilities in
poor areas.
(2b) Carrying out programs for revolving school textbooks,            1.50         0.17         1.67
literacy, and primary health care.
(2c) Improving access to specialized social services to satisfy the   0.36         0.04         0.40
needs of vulnerable groups at risk including the disabled,
children, youth, women and the elderly.
(2d) Developing basic rural infrastructure activities such as         2.00         0.20         2.20**
community potable water, small water disposal schemes, small
irrigation and drainage schemes, small access and agricultural !
roads, land reclamation and rehabilitation of terraces.   |
(2e) Enhancing environmental protection initiatives such as           0.25         0.05         0.30
reforestation and soil erosion control, wells and spring
protection and preservation of natural resources and cultural
heritage    sites.                                                                         _____________._.___._______._.___._
PART B--Provision of Subproject Grants for capacity building    l                          l
activities to support:
(1)  Micro and small entrepreneurs and non-governmental               1.50         0.17         1.67
organizations providing credit to target beneficiary groups.
(2)  Women, youth and disabled people in order to provide them        0.75   l    0.09          0.84
with demand driven specialized skills to improve their income
and enhance their business opportunities.    __      --
PART C--Provision of technical advisory services and training for
project management and for support to CDR and the PIs to ensure
the effective carrying out of the Project and the supervision of its
execution.
(i)   CDR project support                                             0.22         0.03         0.25
(ii)  PMT and monitoring and evaluation activities                    2.73         0.28         3.01
(iii) TA for building capacity of participating NGOs and              0.22         0.03         0.25
beneficiaries
(iv)  CDR for documenting and compiling lessons learned               0.22         0.03         0.25
Total baseline cost                                                  22.50         2.50        25.00
Physical contingencies                                          1     2.25         0.25         2.50
Price contingencies                                                   2.25    1    0.25         2.50
Total project costs   27.00          3.00        30.00
Interest during construction,   0.00         0.00         0.00
Total financing required|    27.00   J    3.00   1   30.00
* These preliminary estimates will be verified upon completion of the social and needs assessment and a more equitable
allocation is identified.
** Components 2(a) and 2(d) include beneficiary in-kind contribution estimated at US$5.00 million equivalent in the
aggregate.
35



Annex 4: Project Rationale and Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
Project Context and Rationale: addressing poverty issues
The concept of poverty in Lebanon. In the context of this Project the lack of satisfaction of basic needs
constitutes poverty, and the significant lack of satisfaction of several basic needs simultaneously
constitutes severe poverty.
This Project adopts the definitions and descriptions of poverty used in Lebanon in studies undertaken by
the Central Administration of Statistics, the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA) and UNDP. Basic human
needs comprise shelter, nutrition, health, education, employment or self-employment and recreation.
Conditions of needs satisfaction have been measured and mapped over the last few years using a
combination of indicators, and the main findings have been amply confirmed by observations and
interviews by Bank staff. The conclusion is that conditions of deprivation are quite widespread in the
country, both in urban cores and peripheries (where the headcount is higher) and in certain rural areas
(where the incidence and depth may be greater). Conditions ranged from mild deprivation, vulnerability,
exclusion and insecurity, through significant and widespread deprivation of basic needs and acute
vulnerability, down to a number of cases of abject poverty and destitution so serious as to be utterly
depraved and sub-human.
Notwithstanding the Bank's language on "poverty", effective dialogue and the avoidance of
misunderstandings in the Lebanese context may sometimes require terms other than "poverty" to be used.
Alternative terms like "basic needs deprivation", "deprived areas" or "less advantaged communities" may
be appropriate proxies for "poverty", and "community development" may stand for poverty alleviation,
provided that there is common understanding on the nature and distribution of the socio-economic
conditions identified, their causes and the measures necessary to address them.
The dimensions and extent of poverty. Dimensions and components of poverty are both material and
non-material. They include: (i) lack of job opportunities, irregular or very low incomes, acutely depressed
demand for local goods and services; (ii) absence of human capacity: inability to access services for health,
education, literacy leading to poor physical, mental and emotional capacity; (iii) absence of economic
security (high risk of loss of employment, small enterprise failure, together with added risks opportunity
caused by poor living environmental and sanitary conditions, overcrowding, structurally unsound
buildings); and (iv) absence of empowerment, namely the ability of excluded and marginalized
communities to make their needs effectively heard in the centers of decision-making and resource
allocation. These components of poverty go beyond traditional measures of household income and
expenditure, and are used both to inform the analysis of the human condition in Lebanon and to select and
design remedial measures. It seems likely that the population materially so affected is of the order of I
million to 1.5 million persons (about 300,000 to 500,000 households).
Although low incomes (and hence a low level of expenditure) are a significant factor in poverty, they are
difficult to measure and verify. The CDP will therefore target its efforts to areas where there is lowest
satisfaction of basic human needs, and highest levels of deprivation. These basic needs include shelter,
food, basic health and education, employment (including self-employment) and recreation.
36



In addition, there are special needs of particularly disadvantaged groups, including the disabled (usually not
less than 5 percent of the total population), widows and orphans, the unsupported aged, adult illiterates, the
internally displaced, and homeless. Such vulnerable groups always need additional support and services,
but where these special needs are combined with poverty (general conditions of deprivation) they can result
in acute hardship. It appears very possible that the official estimate of 7 - 8% of the population in severe
poverty might be an underestimate resulting from invisibility of some of the poorest.
These basic and special needs are generally not evenly distributed across the country. For historical, social
and geographical reasons they are clustered in particular areas and communities that demonstrate high
levels of deprivation, or incidence and depth of poverty. Many of these parameters, or close proxies, have
already been mapped and described by MOSA and the Central Administration of Statistics, with UNDP,
among others.5 While this work is ongoing, it provides a sufficiently sound basis for program development
in this Project.
These conditions are likely to aggravate in the near term. External and internal dynamics and economic
trends indicate that without mitigating measures (and perhaps despite them), the poverty problem is likely
to grow. There remain certain enduring effects of national-level civil and economic shocks, together with
more specific local shocks affecting sub-regions in the country. There is also a demographic momentum.
Poor households tend to be of considerably larger size than the mean, with many more young children.
They have not yet made the demographic transition that richer households have made. The increasing
numbers of children are both a cause of poverty at the domestic level and a factor in the incidence and
trends of poverty at the demographic level. These larger numbers of children already born are not well
cared for in terms of nutrition, education and health. Many are not in school, or have left without sufficient
skills and knowledge to enable them to escape poverty. Some have untreated disabilities and others appear
even to suffer mild stunting and malnutrition. Many have reached or soon will reach the age of
reproduction, and they will reproduce poverty. At the macro level, the country faces the prospect of a
period of structural adjustment and continued slow economic growth. This constrains the national
resources directly and indirectly available to address the problem and the needs of the growing population.
The four main social and economic challenges are: (i) significant regional inequity in the access to basic
infrastructure and social services; (ii) sharp disparities in income levels; (iii) growing gaps between
incomes and the cost of living for lower income groups, particularly the costs of health and education; and
(iv) fragmented safety net that leaves many vulnerable and marginalized groups insufficiently protected. A
major factor in poverty is lack of protection against risk, including loss of employment, incapacitation or
loss of a family's breadwinner.
Government policy. Addressing the regional inequity in the provision of basic infrastructure while
improving the access of the poor to social services has always been a key concern for successive
Governments in Lebanon. The Government is committed to a development strategy that focuses on the
balanced and equitable development of all the regions of Lebanon. This strategy aims also at promoting a
culture of performnance in the provision of social services through community participation in decision-
making and NGO involvement in service delivery.
The Government has announced a five-year development program for the South and is receiving donor
assistance (Islamic Development Bank, Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, Kuwait Fund,
USAID, EU and WB) to implement its strategy to address the social and economic challenges facing the
country. The Government has also requested further Bank assistance to address the social challenges in a
systematic and effective way. The proposed CDP is anchored in the overall Bank Country Assistance
5 See footnote no. 1 under section B.2, on page 3.
37



Strategy's focus (November 1997), which is to "upgrade the human resource base and address poverty in
target underprivileged areas. "
Existing initiatives to reduce poverty. There are few well-targeted efforts to reduce poverty. These
include new local and small-scale approaches that have already demonstrated encouraging results or
potential through support to local community initiatives. They have generated support from beneficiaries
and local communities and institutions, and in many cases have been able to mobilize additional productive
resources. They include the anti-poverty initiatives of UNDP, UNICEF and USAID, the work of
international and national NGOs, the initiatives of MOSA, and initiatives by the private sector and
individuals.
The thematic range and geographic coverage of activities is impressive. Activities include: (i) support to
small business and income generation, and rehabilitation of urban or rural infrastructures that will increase
economic opportunity; (ii) initiatives on targeted social services delivery including health and reproductive
health; skills, literacy and vocational training; (iii) direct social protection and social safety net initiatives
targeted at the needs of people in especially difficult circumstances, such as the disabled and handicapped;
and (iv) creation of institutions that have helped to reintegrate communities and to reintroduce
professionalism, efficiency, transparency, independence and confidence into local development decision-
making.  Some civil society initiatives also have encouraging results, building a context of local
cooperation and alliances. These include local councils or committees of NGOs, partnerships between
NGOs, line ministries and municipalities. There are some good examples of effective tracking and
monitoring of projects, and in particular there is a simple and effective integrated MIS system that handles
multiple initiatives (many communities, donors, initiatives and indicators) which has been developed by an
international NGO in the context of a USAID supported program.
Opportunities and needs. There is a major unfilled opportunity to improve coordination and to make a
strategic, coordinated assault on the conditions of poverty. The examples of encouraging practice cited
above are far from being well known or shared, and are insufficient in relation to the scale of the poverty
problem in Lebanon. The history of collective sharing of information and good practice is relatively new
in Lebanon, and the tradition of operating parallel operations each in its own area of interest is long and
deep. The range of successful initiatives is limited in coverage and impact. Although poverty alleviation
efforts are located throughout the country, including increasingly in the liberated South, efforts are uneven
in relation to the distribution of the problem and are not situated in the context of a collective approach or
even an agreed problematic. Most local activities, whether demand-driven or supply-driven, are one-off
initiatives that are not part of a coordinated development approach. Systematic coordination is lacking
between the activities, alliances and approaches of the agencies involved-including various sectoral line
ministries, development assistance agencies such as the USAID, UN Agencies, the EU, different NGOs,
political parties, confessional agencies-and the World Bank. The current public system displays some
serious flaws, whereby certain line ministries channel a large volume of resources through national NGOs;
however, the systems seem to be deficient in targeting, transparency and accountability, monitoring and
evaluation and also result in beneficiary dependency syndrome.
There is a clear need, expressed by many well informed people, for a better strategic framework of
coordination and regional development. There are three main types of poverty alleviation initiatives and
efforts. Each of these has a different strategy, objective, purpose and targeting, focusing on the needs of
different socio-economic strata of beneficiary groups; and each is evaluated by quite different criteria and
indicators. All three are necessary and should play a complementary, synergistic role in poverty alleviation.
These three types of poverty alleviation actions are:
38



(i)  initiatives that support economic growth and opportunity at the local level not necessarily targeted
to the needs of the distinctly poor, but which would nevertheless benefit the poor indirectly through
helping to revive economic activity and enhance employment and self-employment in depressed
areas. Particular attention would be given to initiatives that would promote micro-enterprises and
self-employment such as market research, product identification and other support activities (e.g.,
small-scale artisanal or handicrafts promotion, with an emphasis on quality and local authenticity).
Activities would also include civil society strengthening, particularly those activities that create more
representative, consultative and accountable mechanisms of local and community decision making
(reduced rent-seeking, enhanced economic efficiency); this type of initiative fosters local economic
growth and diversification, and links to macro-level initiatives and policies in sectors (e.g., transport,
industry) and private sector investment;
(ii) sustainable poverty alleviation initiatives targeted towards increasing the capacity and viability of
poor households, either through geographical targeting or self-targeting mechanisms. These include
health (with reproductive health, and mother-and-child health); education (including functional
literacy and post-literacy); opportunities for enhanced income, initiatives that would reduce
household expenditures but not consumption, particularly those to secure education and health;
capacity building activities or retraining for the slightly disabled; and measures to enable vulnerable
households to manage risk. This set of initiatives enhances the capacity of the poor and supports
their efforts and strategies to escape poverty or mitigate its consequences, and reduces vulnerability;
and
(iii) transfers of resources or services targeted to selected needy beneficiaries. This category of effort
channels direct Government or NGO assistance or individual charity to the poorest of the poor,
perhaps the bottom 7 - 10 percent of the population. These transfers do not represent "sustainable"
development, and are justified on grounds of equity distribution, to deliver direct assistance to the
very needy e.g., the handicapped, orphans, the elderly. The main need here is to ensure inclusion,
coverage and efficiency, and to reduce wastage caused by poor targeting, by the provision of
inappropriate services, or by the capture of benefits by the non-needy. The effective coordination of
these needs, satisfactory coverage, and their efficient linking with Government efforts, requires a
much better coordinated system of local needs assessments. In a strategic approach, the local
purchase of goods and services (local produce or furniture for an orphanage, aids for the
handicapped) can also create valuable synergies between (i) and (ii).
The learning experience from program evaluation of these three types of interventions would be formalized
in reports, shared and tested in evaluation workshops, and used as a contribution to formulating a national
strategy for poverty alleviation.
Project Objectives, Strategy and Design
Development Objective. The development objective of the Community Development Project is to
establish an effective and sustainable instrument to improve the living conditions and the economic status
of disadvantaged communities. This will be achieved by a four-pronged approach to: (i) improve access to
basic social and economic infrastructure by funding small well-targeted community-based initiatives to
improve the quality and accessibility to the poor of education, health, and physical environment services;
(ii) improve the economic status of poorer or more vulnerable households by stimulating local incomes and
productivity and reducing exposure to risk, through basic skills training, capacity building to support
micro-credit initiatives; (iii) develop special programs that target the needs of specific vulnerable groups at
risk, especially women, children, and the disabled; and (iv) document the experience obtained through this
39



Project and derive the lessons learned in consultation with ministries that are engaged in the development
of a longer-term strategy to reduce the social and regional imbalances in human development.
NGOs as Project Intermediaries (PIs). A key innovation in this Project is the systematic participation of
the NGO sector as PIs, in coordination with beneficiary communities, local government, local private
organizations and sector ministries.
The program to be developed must be flexible, responsive to community needs and capable of
implementing a participatory approach to development across a large number of diverse actions and
activities. The delivery mechanism with the greatest potential to fill this role is the NGO community.
Accordingly, and in order to ensure broad coverage of the CDP to target populations and regions, the
Project will be implemented through a number of carefully selected PIs. These will be qualified national
and international NGOs with strong community ties and proven execution capacity. They would help
identify priority needs at the local level based on social assessments to be carried out with local
participation, on the basis of which they will prepare programs of priority needs initiatives for each
poverty cluster. In order to ensure community participation, a second tier of grassroots and community
based NGOs and community-based organizations would participate.
Participation of local NGOs in the implementation of the CDP can be advantageous for a number of
reasons. It is generally cost-effective and can: (i) contribute to the longer-term development of local
communities in the country; (ii) adopt flexible and experimental approaches maximizing the use of local
labor; and (iii) mobilize in-kind and sometimes cash resources. In cases where local NGO capacity is
weak, collaboration with national and international NGOs will be encouraged and supported by the
provisions for capacity building included in the CDP. Many national and international NGOs in Lebanon
work with and through local NGO partners and can, therefore, play a valuable role as "Project
Intermediaries" between the Bank and the Government on one hand, and smaller local organizations on the
other.
Selection of Project Intermediaries (PIs)
PIs would consist of national and international NGOs that demonstrate ability to gain the trust of local
communities and to work effectively with them, especially those with high levels of basic needs
deprivation and low incomes. They would be able to manage local multi-year and multi-sector program
activities comprising at least interventions of types included in the CDP, and able to coordinate with donor
agencies (such as USAID and EU) that promote similar interventions to those proposed under the CDP.
The selection process of PIs must be highly objective, transparent and rigorous. They would be selected
through a competitive process and would have the demonstrated capacities within one or more "poverty
clusters" (or nationwide single sector capacity). They should be able to:
*  elicit, understand, analyze and present priority needs of different sub-groups, particularly those of
women, through participatory research;
*  integrate different stakeholders interest into an agreed participatory action program comprising a
coherent package of demand-driven eligible initiatives as defined in the CDP OM;
*  identify and operationalize innovative and cost-effective ways to work with local communities to
meet development needs;
*  empower local communities, groups and organizations to participate in the development and
reconstruction process through action, training and capacity building, so as to maintain and sustain
40



program actions initiatives, and thereby to strengthen civil society and local mechanisms of
cooperation;
*  cooperate and coordinate with concerned sector ministries and other organizations;
*  master all phases of the project cycle (needs assessment and prioritization, preparation and
appraisal, coordination, implementation, monitoring and impact evaluation); and
*  demonstrate transparency, efficiency and accountability, and management capability to maintain
project accounts, records, reports and audits.
NGO sector profile. The Project implementation approach stemmed from studies of the NGO sector. As
part of its economic and sector work, the World Bank supported an NGO sector assessment that would
identify the potential for NGO contribution to a participatory community development project, and to
evaluate the NGOs needs for capacity building. A typology was created, and official and documentary
resources were used to build up a profile of the NGO universe. A second and more intensive stage then
explored views of a purposive selection of NGOs for poverty reduction as well as their perceived strengths
and weaknesses, using interviews, a questionnaire and a workshop. NGOs satisfied one or more of the
following criteria: (i) member of a national co-ordination body; (ii) recipient of funds from various
government sources; (iii) foreign funded or foreign implementing organizations; and (iv) major national
trust or foundation dependent on a high level of secured local funding.6 The first characteristic allowed
inclusion of associations and groups involved in advocacy, public education and grassroots awareness-
raising, on the assumption that membership of a national body signals an intention to transcend a local
focus. The survey did not cover the categories of family/kinship NGOs; professional, cultural or sports
associations. Few religious or confessional NGOs responded to the questionnaire.
Over 3,800 NGOs were registered with the Ministry of the Interior between 1979 and 1999, although not
all of these are active. Their estimated total current annual budget, which includes financing from foreign
and government sources, appears to exceed US$296 million. A significant portion of this is funding
through governments, usually by means of annually renewable contracts. Most of the support comes from
MOSA. The amount is insignificant in terms of the Government overall budget but substantial from the
NGOs' perspective. MOSA's financial contributions are primarily geared toward social welfare and to a
lesser extent to local development.
Over the past few years the Government's contributions have reached a plateau and the proportion of
government funding to NGOs' overall budgets has declined steadily, resulting in financial problems to the
NGOs, concerns over their sustainability, and in some cases a decreasing number of beneficiaries. The
Ministry of Education also contributes significantly to sustaining semi-free educational establishments,
mostly religious, while the Ministries of Labour and Environment also support to a lesser degree a small
number of NGO initiatives in their respective areas of interest. Some NGOs have been affected by delays
in receiving transfers of Government funds.
6 Based on these criteria, the target NGO population selected for study was reduced from 38,000 to 400. The close-ended
questionnaire was distributed to around 300 NGOs of whom 130 responded within the deadline. Of these, 28 NGOs were
selected to take part in the in-depth interviews. These were selected according to combined thematic and coordination categories
and included 2 members of the NGO forum, 2 members of the coordination of NGOs, 3 large national NGOs, I capacity
building NGO, 3 women groups, 3 disability groups, 2 environment groups, I youth group, I association for children, 2 health
NGO, I social works NGO, 2 local rural development NGOs, 2 vocational training NGOs, 2 NGOs involved in credit schemes
and I NGO working with the Armenian community.
41



Foreign sources, including bilateral and multilateral funding, represent the second largest source of funding
to NGOs, although not in excess of 40 percent of total income. Some sources, particularly transfers from
religious organizations and congregations or from individual patrons to ad-hoc local informal groups, are
difficult to trace. Until the early nineties, the dependence of NGOs on foreign sources of funding made
them vulnerable to variability and short-term concerns. USAID is a significant source of foreign funding
for five large NGOs working in the field of community development.
The recent financial difficulties of the NGO sector have led many NGOs to emphasize cost recovery from
beneficiaries. In some cases this policy may have led to a shift in the profile of the beneficiaries away from
the most destitute, and the impact of cost recovery deserves further study. Local fundraising remains a
largely under-utilized source, although some NGOs have scored recent successes and have accumulated
significant experience. Tapping local funding resources effectively will require the acquisition of new
skills and a change in the marketing approach.
NGOs' activities and poverty focus. NGO activities are essentially focused on sectors such as health,
education, and social welfare, an emphasis that reveals a significant gap in government provision of these
essential services. Since independence, successive governments have chosen to privilege the historically
strong private sector in health, education and social welfare provision and to limit government
interventions to filling gaps. Despite various new programs and initiatives launched by the government,
this approach is still largely maintained. One outcome of such a policy is to discourage NGOs from
exploring new grounds by focusing their human and financial resources on meeting these basic needs. It is
therefore very difficult to assess the actual impact of NGOs' work on the poor, which these NGOs intend to
target.
Many NGOs point to tangible indicators of increased poverty namely increasing school dropout rates,
increased child labor, rise in youth unemployment amongst the youth, deteriorating health conditions,
increased indebtedness of households leading to selling out assets, increased migration to the capital and
increased out-migration.
NGOs' perceptions of the causes of poverty in Lebanon identified three primary causes:
(a) Structural causes of poverty including a historically divided political system, limitations of the
administration, inequality in the distribution of wealth, unequal gender relations and a general
neglect of productive economic sectors such as industry and agriculture.
(b) War-related causes including destruction of the infrastructure, displacement, social disintegration
and psychological trauma, and the loss of Lebanon's traditional economic role.
(c) Causes related to Government policies and to the post-Taif context, namely, regional instability,
increased public debt to finance reconstruction of basic economic infrastructure, increasing costs of
public and social services, decline of economic activity and rising unemployment, and the
persisting imbalances between households incomes and levels of expenditures.
42



Overall, current strategies and interventions aiming at reducing or mitigating the impacts of poverty appear
to be based on an ad-hoc analysis of needs rather than on well-defined poverty considerations. Strategies as
well as targeting mechanisms are not fully clarified. In general, NGOs were involved in strategies to: (i)
provide cheaper basic services (notably in relation to health and education); (ii) increase household income
through various forms of training and support to productive projects; (iii) provide social assistance and
psychological care, empowerment and capacity building; and (iv) preserve natural resources as well as
various actions for justice and equality. Few NGOs' interventions and programs include any mechanism to
monitor and measure poverty impact.
Taken as a whole the NGO sector has a wide geographic spread; a large and socially diverse population of
beneficiaries; an overall annual budget in the range of several hundred millions of dollars; several tens of
thousands of paid staff and also of volunteers, and a portfolio of activities which includes innovative and
creative solutions. Despite some notable geographical and thematic gaps, this is a solid resource to bring to
bear on the systematic addressing of poverty reduction issues. NGOs are genuinely willing to move
forward in this direction, but at the same time reveal some clear capacity gaps to be addressed. These
capacity gaps are noted in a later section.
Implications for program design. The NGO sector in Lebanon being very heterogeneous, the
Government's relationship with it has been strongly influenced by each organization's specific activities,
purpose, ideology, and institutional or personal ties. NGO-state relations have gone through difficult
periods, and there is some caution on both sides about becoming involved in a CDP-type project. Such
concerns can be reduced through corrective measures during Project design. These corrective measures
include: (i) involving NGOs early in Project design; (ii) ensuring autonomy and transparency in Project
operations; (iii) guarding against political patronage in the selection and approval of local priority
initiatives; and (iv) ensuring that there will be no Government interventions in internal NGO affairs.
The CDP will allow the Bank to play an important role in working with the Government on an ongoing
basis to foster better understanding of NGO roles, greater space for NGO activities and NGO-Government
collaboration within a proper framework of accountability.
Rationale for Project Implementation, Targeting and Allocation of Resources
Project benefits and beneficiaries. The Project would bring three types of benefits to needy populations,
with emphasis on areas that demonstrate large concentrations of deprivation. Deriving from a community
demand-driven menu of small-scale activities to be developed during the project, these diverse benefits
may be aggregated into: (i) increased access to economic and social infrastructure, the reduced cost of
accessing these services, and the improved quality (through upgrading) of the infrastructures; (ii) increased
human resources and capacity for families with low or uncertain incomes, enabling them to cope better
with economic shocks, unemployment, and uncertainty to generate additional incomes to meet their basic
needs; these would include skills for employment, especially for young men and women; literacy and post
literacy training; business skills to manage micro-credit opportunities; and special training for enhanced
capability, social reintegration or rehabilitation of vulnerable groups; and (iii) increased voice for the needy
and vulnerable at the local and national level to direct adequate resources to deprived areas and needy or
vulnerable groups.
43



Targeting and resource allocation
The Project beneficiaries in principle are inclusive of all needy, deprived or vulnerable communities.
However, for the sake of efficiency and impact, the Project would channel a critical mass of funding and
efforts to areas with the highest concentration of needs or eligible beneficiary groups:
*  Targeting is the judicious and selective direction of resources and effort to achieve an intended
result.
*  Absence of targeting-at the extreme, giving every family in Lebanon an equal share of the loan-
would dissipate effort and produce no development result.
*  Excessive targeting-at other the extreme, allocating all the resources to a tiny minority of the very
poorest-would allocate a disproportionately high level of resources to the achievement of a result
on too small a scale to be meaningful. It would be unsustainable and would surpass absorptive
capacity.
Targeting therefore requires judicious selectivity, being neither too broad nor too narrow. The targeting
exercise describes the distribution and nature of the problem to be addressed, selects areas for effort,
determines what can be achieved, and indicates the resource requirements.
In Lebanon, while poverty can be found throughout the country, it is very unevenly distributed
geographically. About half the poverty in the country can be attributed to two large clusters, one in the
north (Akkar-Tripoli-Miniye) and one in greater Beirut. Other smaller clusters account for the other half of
the poverty in the country and are located in coastal city centers, in mountainous areas, in the deprived
areas of the northern Beka'a valley and so on. Geographical targeting is therefore necessary, but at the
same time geographical targeting has potential implications of allocation of resources on political lines and
is thus a sensitive issue.
This Project, being a small-scale and innovative Project, cannot expect in its first stage to address all
pockets of poverty throughout the country. To attempt to do so with such limited resources would be to
dilute the impact. More importantly, the distribution of poverty does not follow administrative boundaries.
Therefore the aim is:
* During the first stage to address the main clusters which, together, account for the greatest
proportion of poverty.
* To clearly define poverty by targeting its geographical distribution empirically and not by
administrative boundaries.
It is important to have clear and objective criteria that can be explained and defended, so that the program
can justify its decisions when challenged.
Priority cluster areas have already been identified as a result of the poverty mapping exercise conducted by
MOSA with the help of the UNDP since 1995. These will be further defined in the course of cluster
situation analysis to be undertaken during the first year of the Project. The selection would be based on
readily available socio-economic indicators such as: (i) access to basic economic and social infrastructure;
(ii) income levels; (iii) unemployment; (iv) weak Government and donor intervention; (v) lack of
environmental and natural assets; and (vi) socio-economic gender equity considerations.
44



Such geographical targeting must not be allowed to become subject to political and administrative
mapping. The CDP Project must keep a sense of perspective. In terms of resources, with perhaps US$200
to US$300 million annually flowing through NGO sector, the CDP Project would only add about 10
percent to the sector's resource flows through the CDR administered Project. Most regions, including
many of the most disadvantaged, have access to multiple programs of intervention by government and by
other agencies. The most significant regional investment decisions are the large strategic decisions by
private capital and the state. In terms of impact, the CDP is a relatively small Project. Its impact will be
discernible only at the levels of the families and small community areas where it implements its activities,
and only in certain respects. It cannot cover every part of the country, but must select where it is to
concentrate its effort. It is not going to make a significant impact on mass poverty even in the regions in
which it concentrates. It is developing and demonstrating a method or an approach for demand driven local
development in needy areas which, over the long term and with a consistent application of effort, could
make a significant improvement in conditions of deprivation and poverty.
Geographical targeting
CDP uses two types of targeting in conjunction:
*  Geographical targeting, based on the level of need, deprivation or poverty of a predetermined
area, and refined by a Social Assessment of the area; and
-  Thematic targeting, based on special needs (e.g., functional literacy, disability) wherever they are
most concentrated, linking wherever possible to the needy geographical areas and to beneficiary
solidarity or support groups. Thematic targeting may be implemented by identifying qualified
beneficiaries (orphans, disabled), or preferably by offering a self-targeting service of interest to a
particular group (micro-credit, literacy and post-literacy).
The geographical targeting method adopted for this Project has been developed on the basis of the
successful USAID Integrated Rural Development Project, which adopted the cluster approach in Lebanon
and which uses community action plans for the lowest level of activity.7 The amendments adopted here
result from the need for clearer poverty targeting both within larger areas, and within the clusters.
Two levels of geographical targeting would be used in the Project, plus one local development instrument.
Cluster planning is already used in Lebanon NGO projects.
*  Regional poverty area (RPA): the programn zone of action of one or more Project Intermediary
organizations that is the level for overall planning, budgeting, contracting and evaluation for PIs.
*  Poverty clusters (PCs): a relatively homogeneous area within an RPA. The PC is characterized
by a particular set of poverty-related problems and contains a critical mass of identifiably needy
households, notionally about 2000 needy households (10,000 - 14,000 people) per PC. It could
comprise a group of villages, a town, a suburb or quarter of a larger city. It is the primary unit for
analysis, diagnosis, and development of participatory Community Action Plans. A PC may have
one or more Action Plans. PCs are defined empirically by social assessment (see separate section).
All significant concentrations of basic needs deprivation in the RPA should be identified and
described.
7 In the USAID project these local level actions are called comnmunity projects. The term Community Action Plan is
preferred, so that the term "project" is reserved for the overall CDP project.
45



* Community Action Plan (CAP): This is the local participatory action plan comprising several
community subprojects (e.g., rehabilitation of a health center) prioritized over a period of three or
four years. A PC may have one or several CAPs according to the degree of coordination between
the different groups and institutions.
A PI program contract (a Subproject Agreement) thus covers one RPA comprising a number (notionally 3
- 10) of PCs, and a 3-year program of priority CAPs.
Regional Poverty Areas. Geographical targeting would take place within seven broad regions most
characterized by poverty or deprivation of needs. These are: (i) the north, including the extremely
deprived rural district of Akkar which, together with the deprived urban core of Tripoli, and the district of
Miniye, accounts for over a third of the national poverty; (ii) Greater Beirut, which has a lower proportion
of deprivation than the rest of the country but where, by sheer weight of numbers, over one quarter of the
need is located; (iii) the south, severely affected by occupation and war; and (iv) the eastern Bekaa
districts of Hermel and Baalbeck. Other areas where there are smaller concentration of poverty are: (i)
the mountainous area of Jbeil - Batroun -Bcharreh; (ii) West Bekaa (Rachaya -Hasbayya); and (iii) Saida
-Chouf. These areas will be included in the Project. The RPA is purely a unit of project targeting and
administrative convenience, and serves to describe the geographical area within which contracted program
is situated.
The size or political importance of the RPA does not determine the resource envelope. The RPA resource
envelope (the indicative budget within which a PI should plan a program) is determined by the
number and size of the poverty clusters within it. The contractual approval of resources will be based
on a work program comprising a number of CAPs.
Poverty Clusters. Each PI selected to work in a RPA would define through social assessment a number of
Poverty Clusters (PCs) within each RPA. All significant concentrations of basic needs deprivation in the
RPA should be identified, analyzed, disaggregated and described.
The PC is a geographically defined area characterized by a particular set of poverty-related
problems and clear geographical cohesion. It must contain within its limits a critical mass of identifiably
needy households, notionally about 2,000 households (10,000 - 14,000 people) per PC. It could comprise
a group of villages, a town, a suburb or quarter of a larger city. It should have a socio-economic logic,
normally a common set of core problems. Examples of PCs for illustrative purposes could be: (i) the
degraded city center of a coastal town; (ii) a coastal region with a depressed fishing industry; (iii) a rural
town or cluster of mountain villages with a chronically depressed economy, high unemployment and
fertility and low education; (iv) a suburb in a major city settled spontaneously during the civil war, lacking
amenities and with the majority of households lacking sufficient incomes to satisfy basic needs. The PC is
the base unit for social assessment, described below. It is therefore the primary unit for analysis, diagnosis,
and development of participatory Community Action Plans. (A PC may have one or more Action Plans.)
Special needs targeting
The following categories of especially vulnerable people may be widely identified: disabled, including
their families; children at risk, including orphans, out of school and children of parents at risk; youth at
risk; women at risk (e.g., abused women; widows); elderly at risk: single or living alone; chronically ill,
ex-detainees. When these special needs occur in generally poor areas (PCs), vulnerability may easily
translate into acute destitution and suffering. Those affected are less likely to be able to access government
46



services or effective NGOs, and family mechanisms have often broken down or are ineffective because of
poverty and multiple claims on resources.
A PI's program of activity would not normally include financing direct recurrent support to such needs,
because by definition this support would cease at the project's end. The program of activity might follow
one or more of the following elements: preventive actions (especially for disabilities); early intervention;
integration and reintegration; skills for self-employment; mutual support groups; identification to
competent agencies, especially MOSA.
Social assessment
The PIs would develop within a designated poverty cluster or sector theme, a strategic approach and
package of activities with local partners for poverty alleviation and community development. Local
partners would be in a strong cooperative relationship rather than subordinated to the PIs. The strategic
approach would be based on a preceding participatory social assessment that would identify significant
poverty clusters and sub-types, provide situation profiles of beneficiary groups, identify potential partners
and needs, activities, and monitoring and evaluation indicators. NGOs would undertake training and
capacity building to enhance their performance in this respect.
The social assessment on which this work is based therefore has to describe, map and analyze the different
components of poverty and deprivation, and show how they are linked, as well as to provide a logic for the
kinds of community action plans that would be prepared. A major purpose of the social assessment is to
identify issues of inclusion and exclusion in development benefits, in order to develop a sufficiently
inclusive program of CAPs and thematic interventions to address this issue. Each PI contracted under the
Project would during the first [61 months conduct a detailed social assessment and situational analysis of
poverty or deprivation issues in the RPA. It is a durable reference document that serves as a general
baseline.
The social assessment within the RPA:
*  identifies the main poverty clusters (location, size, brief description);
*  describes the socio-economic situation in respect of the problems of low levels of satisfaction of
basic needs i.e., shelter, food, basic health and education, employment (including self-employment)
and recreation - includes qualitative descriptions and specific issues including specially vulnerable
groups, female headed households;
*  quantifies as best as possible the incidence and depth of poverty (i.e., deprivation of more than one
of these needs and maps the distribution at a level below that of the caza and attempts to deduce
trends;
*  analyzes and differentiates poverty in terms of its history, socio-economic nature and causes (e.g.,
poverty caused by regional economic stagnation; collapse of agricultural markets; high in-
migration of Internally Displaced People (IDP); structural and inherited poverty; landlessness;
residual effects of wars) and disaggregates poverty by gender and other relevant socio-economic
variables;
*  analyzes the main stakeholders and institutional players (local, national and foreign-based) in
relation to poverty and poverty alleviation;
*  identifies the main community priorities and the main needs of specific groups of people;
47



*  presents the rationale and justification for a group of CAPs (including areas where CAPs were not
possible, e.g., insufficient community cohesion);
*  presents the rationale and justification for the output, process and impact indicators;
*  presents the baseline situation in respect of impact indicators;
*  presents as an annex the cluster profiles of each of the PCs in the RPA (the USAID model is
encouraged);
*  describes and evaluates the participatory process by which the social assessment was prepared and
the process by which the findings were shared and owned by local participants; and
*  describes the level of organization and participation in the communities.
The social assessment should be undertaken in a participatory fashion, using any techniques or procedures
that are effective in the situation. The Pls will consult with beneficiary communities and local
organizations, local government and concerned sector ministries, as required. The PIs will present to the
concemed stakeholders the menu of activities the CDP would fund. In many instances, beneficiaries may
not have the capacity to organize themselves in a representative manner, and may no be able to prioritize
such needs. In such cases, the Pls will be required to provide support to build local capacity to accomplish
the project objectives.
Special measures should be taken to secure the active participation of particular groups including women
and youth. Informal techniques are encouraged, and the use of extractive formal techniques such as
questionnaires is discouraged except in certain very restricted situations where the beneficiaries are in
favor and the information cannot be collected by other means.
Community Action Plan (CAP)
The CAP is based on a participatory needs assessment and definition of community priorities. The plan of
action comprises subprojects for defined sub-sets of needy beneficiaries, selected by them from a very
broad menu of activities, and developed for participatory implementation with costing, actors, indicators
(described below) and a time line. It justifies the selection of beneficiaries and the intervention in terms of
poverty criteria. The community action plan is a moral contract between the PI and the beneficiaries in
which the contribution and level of participation of each partner is specified. The CAP includes the
necessary ministry or local authority approvals together with the technical information required for
appraisal, monitoring and evaluation. CAPs may be developed and funded on an annual basis.
Allocation of resources
A tentative allocation of resources to the various CDP components is given in Annexes 2 and 3. On this
basis, about US$20.00 million equivalent have been tentatively allocated to 7 RPAs; about US$2.50
million equivalent would be allocated to sector themes (about 8 to 10 themes have been identified); and
about US$3.00 million equivalent would be allocated to capacity building for income enhancement and
social protection programs.
Although no specific allocation of resources has been identified for each sector specific theme, it is
expected that such programs would be more of innovative and experimental nature each costing in the
order of US$100,000.00 to US$150,000.00, which would be implemented by highly specialized NGOs
[Annex 2, Part A (2)].
48



The Bank, in the context of the poverty review, carried out a study of the Lebanese micro-finance industry
as a potential resource to generate self-employment opportunities. This review indicated that the present
need is less for financial capitalization of existing schemes, than for the provision of parallel training
activities and support services that would improve the prospects of success of micro enterprise ventures.
Therefore, support to micro-credit sector would comprise of two parts: (i) capacity building to micro
entrepreneurs with potential to have access to credit and those at risk of failure; and (ii) capacity building
to NGOs lending to micro entrepreneurs to render such organizations sustainable.
This program would be a pilot operation to test methodologies to promote a risk-managed extended
outreach of existing lending organizations targeting existing micro enterprises at risk of failure to help
them reduce such a risk, and to potential new clients who may be able to raise part of the investment capital
required. To minimize the risk of this pilot operation, participants will be required to share the cost of the
program as an indication of commitment.
During preparation and appraisal, consultations were carried out with NGOs with experience in these
endeavors, and which could compete on the formulation of such innovative programs. These intermediary
NGOs would function as brokers to bring together the interested lending organizations and the potential
clients. Although initially the experiment would require a symbolic cost-sharing fee, it would serve to
determine the cost of undertaking similar programs while evaluating the calculated risks that could be taken
and the feasibility of the initiative for the design of a larger scale program. A maximum of US$2 million
equivalent has been allocated to this program [Annex 2, Part B (1)].
Specific experimental demand-driven capacity building programs targeting women, youth, disabled and
internally displaced persons have also been considered to enable reincorporating them to the productive
sector and improve their income enhancement opportunities. This program would develop innovative and
cost-effective approaches to learn by doing and enable formulating viable larger programs to be funded by
other programs. About US$1 million equivalent have been tentatively allocated to attract NGOs with
demonstrated capacity for developing such programs in a competitive way [Annex 2, Part B (2)].
Application of Least-Cost Analysis in Program Design
The primary Project objective is to ameliorate the conditions of those living in poverty. In this context,
investments will be selected to raise service and performance level to acceptable standards in deficient
areas where income levels are low. These standards are defined in terms of the level of service or
performance necessary for safe and healthy habitation. These standards, as used for the CDP, imply a
political decision that the benefits of reaching the acceptable level of service are sufficient to justify the
cost (minimized by a least-cost procedure). However, for some types of basic infrastructure there are unit
prices which could be adjusted along regional conditions. The PMT will research such unit prices with the
purpose of establishing cost parameters to better judge and aid the design along cost-effective options.
These base prices will be incorporated in the Operations Manual for easy reference.
The cost of not having access to an acceptable level of service includes both private costs to the intended
beneficiaries and external costs to other members of the society. From identified basic rural infrastructure
needs, priority will be given to investments related to unsafe water supply and unhealthy sanitary
conditions, dangerous public safety conditions such as risk to floods (drainage works) or land slides (soil
erosion control measures). Also priority will be given to income enhancement investments such as small
irrigation and drainage, access and agricultural roads. However, few technical alternatives exist for most
simple problems, but for more costly initiatives, such as sewage disposal, technical alternatives will be
considered, e.g., individual septic systems versus a common waterborne system. Cost minimization
techniques will be used to evaluate all proposed investments.
49



The benefits of each type of investment will be identified but most benefits are not readily quantifiable.
The usual methods for quantification of benefits of comprehensive upgrading projects is to measure
changes in property values, but this can not be undertaken where there are no beneficiary owners and
virtually no property transactions. It should be noted, however, that the economic rate of return for similar
Bank financed operations has been estimated by the Operations and Evaluation Department at about 22
percent.
Expected Benefits
The program would finance mainly social services and basic social infrastructure in areas of poverty, which
would facilitate access to the poor. The improved health and education services would indeed raise the
human capacity to be productive, and the improved water supply and sanitation would reduce health risk
which often is a contributing factor to make people unproductive while reducing the cost of medical
services. The capacity building and support services to micro enterprises would create a suitable
environment for the financial organizations to increase their coverage thus resulting in more business for
them while creating self-employment opportunities among low-income populations. The reproductive
health, immunization campaigns, literacy and other social programs are longer-term investments to reduce
poverty and to increase the opportunities of the poor to improve their living conditions. All these benefits
are not readily quantifiable but proxy figures could be use to measure the economic benefits of such
programs.
Counter-part Funding and Operation and Maintenance Arrangements
The PIs, in the identification of priority needs with beneficiary participation, will also explore with
beneficiaries their affordability and willingness to share the cost of the investment, and make the necessary
arrangements for the operation and maintenance of such services upon commissioning. In this regard, the
PIs will assist the beneficiaries to organize permanent operation and maintenance organizations and
provide as part of the investment the required parts, tools and training for the proper operation of the basic
services provided. As an indicator of ownership and commitment to the program, beneficiaries will be
required to contribute in-kind up to 25 percent of the investment. Beneficiaries may choose to purchase
with their own resources materials, labor or donate land, or other form of in-kind contribution, and such
values accounted for as part of the cost of the program.
Fiscal Impact
The CDP is estimated to cost US$30.00 million equivalent over a period of five years. The Bank will
contribute with a loan of US$20.00 million equivalent, Government will contribute US$5.00 million
equivalent and beneficiary communities will contribute in-kind the equivalent of US$5.00 million.
The fiscal impact of the CDP program on the already critical fiscal deficit situation the Government is
experiencing (US$3.9 billion fiscal deficit in 2000) will be insignificant. The annual funding required by
the CDP will not exceed US$2.00 million per year in any given year, an amount that the Ministry of
Finance has indicated would not cause any difficulties to raise.
Monitoring and Evaluation Overview
The scope and scale of the Project poses a significant challenge to realize its objectives which include
learning. A large part of this challenge is to ensure that the many different actors and partners at different
levels are able to keep track of the Project at different levels, and to take corrective action as necessary.
50



It is a fundamental principle of the monitoring and evaluation system that it combines community derived
and expert derived indicators and methods. The programs of activities respond to needs identified in a
participatory fashion with the intended beneficiaries, and implemented in a participatory way. It answers
to two main needs:
* to maintain an overview of the results on the ground of the CDP and its different programs,
components and activities; and
*  to enable an overview of the major impacts of different interventions, and thus to obtain an overall
view of the impact of the Project and an evaluation of its outcomes.
It follows that the monitoring and evaluation has to operate at three different levels and across a wide
range of activities:
* the local activity level (PI or local organization together with local community or beneficiaries;
*  the program level (geographic zone, and possibly thematic issues); and
* the level of the Community Development Project (highest level).
Beneficiaries in monitoring and impact assessment. Wherever possible, beneficiaries should be formally
involved in the monitoring and impact assessment of activities. This not only reduces the Project's direct
financial cost of monitoring and evaluation, but it enables beneficiaries to develop a sense of ownership in
the activities. There should be a clear agreement at the time of planning the program on what the
beneficiaries would measure, and how, as part of their contribution to the Project. (It is important to
remember that beneficiary time has value, and thus their contribution to monitoring and evaluation is a
contribution to Project costs.) Because the program is demand-driven and diverse in its actions, it follows
that the core of the monitoring and impact assessment must be bottom-up. The lowest level of action, being
the most diverse, will generate the most diverse indicators. At higher levels, more technical criteria and
expertise are required. Because the program is a learning exercise, it follows that the monitoring and impact
evaluation system is also work in progress that will itself be developed, evaluated and refined as the Project
progresses.
Monitoring and Impact Assessment at the Local Activity (beneficiary/community) Level
Indicators for activity monitoring and impact assessment are determined at the time each activity is defined,
and should be done as part of the beneficiary consultation process. Each PI's program of activities should
contain the indicators that will enable its monitoring and impact assessment. Technical appraisal of the
activity and program will pay attention to the quality of indicators proposed. The indicators are developed in
the following stages.
Beneficiary consultation. Community-derived indicators are not produced unaided by the communities,
but are the result of the dialogue between the PI and the beneficiaries which develops the program of
community subprojects. A key principle of agreement on subprojects is that there should be agreement on
the definition of the problem that the activity is to solve. This may require some time and persistence,
because beneficiaries may frequently come up with a solution without clearly stating the problem it is
intended to solve. For example they might propose construction or renovation of a dispensary as a local
priority, but has the problem been clearly stated? (Time and cost of obtaining medication is high because of
distance? Previous local dispensary destroyed during conflict? Nearest dispensary is poorly supplied?). The
problem should be quantified as clearly as possible (how many people? What sort of people? What
distance? How often?) And has the link been clearly made between the proposed activity (construction) and
the proposed impact (300 people have better access to medication). The dialogue has to result in clarity on
the characteristics of the beneficiary community. Such consultations should not be rushed, as they are part
of good preparation.
51



Model the subproject sequence from output to impact. This stage is done also in consultation with
beneficiaries, or a small group. The purpose is to show, simply and schematically, the three steps by which
each proposed activity is expected to produce an impact. These steps are: (i) output (the immediate visible
result of the activity; what was made possible by the funds supplied); (ii) process: what the beneficiaries did,
the essential link between output and impact, and (iii) impact, a quantifiable, verifiable indicator, preferably
one simple enough that it can be measured and reported by beneficiary representatives themselves or by
local authorities. Where possible, the impact should be sustainable (see further discussion below on
sustainability). Detailed examples are provided in the OM.
These three classes of indicators enable project monitoring to take place, achievements to be recorded, and
problems to be diagnosed. Where a project has not achieved its results, management would be able to
determine whether the problem lay in: (i) the outputs not having been achieved; or (ii) the process
(beneficiaries did not respond as anticipated e.g., the trainees attended but did not learn); or (iii) the impact
(faulty assumptions or external factors e.g., the trees died of disease, the water table dropped).
These three sequenced classes of indicators also enable the Project to become a learning experience
for beneficiaries, implementors, and managers, much more than if only a single output or impact
indicator is used. They also accurately model the local level contract (formal or informal) between project
implementing agency and beneficiary community, because they state what the Project will do, what the
beneficiaries will do, and what the result is.
Instruments at local level. The instruments held and completed at local activity level, and copied to
the PI, should therefore comprise the following four items (detailed in the OM):
*  A situation analysis, describing the problem and conditions (see earlier chapter)
*  A plan of activities
*  A monitoring sheet for output and process
*  An impact assessment sheet
A simple local level output monitoring sheet would be maintained by the local project
representative/committee. This information should be in the public domain and should comprise all the key
steps from beginning to completion of the planned action e.g., well rehabilitation. A process monitoring
sheet would monitor the agreed process indicator for each indicator. Disaggregation is important, because it
allows the beneficiaries to be characterized e.g., by gender or other relevant socio-economic characteristic as
agreed in the program. An impact monitoring sheet would be much more flexible according to the nature of
the Project (e.g., photographs might be used), but its format should be agreed at the start of the Project and
the frequency of assessing impact, and by whom should be stated.
Training. The above schema for monitoring and impact assessment at community level cannot be
achieved without training, and PIs should factor in community capacity building as part of the costs of
implementing their program. Common failings in such community-based systems, which training should
be designed to avoid, are:
*  Imprecise definition of indicators and actions
*  Implementing agency conducts its own assessment rather than listening to the community
*  Over centralization of monitoring and evaluation system (which should aggregate the data upward,
together with its problems, not overburden the community)
*  Insufficient information provided by P1 or its agents to the local communities and beneficiaries
*  Insufficient sharing of indicators among the community
*  Loss of interest.
52



Monitoring and ImpactAssessmentAggregated at Regional (PI) Level
The principal agents at the regional PI level are the PI itself, its participating partners (NGOs and CBOs);
thematic PIs working in the region as part of the program, the PMT, representatives of the beneficiary
communities, the regional authorities and the general public.
Responsibilities. The purpose of PI monitoring is the more effective management of the program of
activities, with a view to corrective management intervention; the demonstration of impacts, and the
development of a learning experience. Each PI should have a responsible monitoring, impact assessment
and evaluation unit which should consist, at a minimum, of a full-time database manager, and a field
facilitator responsible for interface with the communities, and training in the identification and
measurement of indicators. Evaluation activities are essential at PI level but are dealt with in the next
section, the present chapter concentrating on output, process and impact monitoring.
The function of the PI M&E function is to:
*  verify, record, aggregate, and analyze qualitative and quantitative data coming from activities;
*  build capacity to monitor output and process and to assess impact at local level;
*  advise management of implementation problems and successes; and
-  participate in periodic joint evaluations with other PIs of each other's programs. These would take
place at least once a year and last for one week.
Instruments. The core entire information system at PI level consists of the following documents, which
are shared upwardly with the PMT. They are also shared horizontally with partners and down to
beneficiary community level as appropriate:
*  Social assessment, integrating specific local situation analyses, baselines and special studies and
indicating beneficiary characteristics, resources, potentials and priority needs (see earlier section).
  Agreed program of planned activities with target areas, beneficiaries.
*  Annual work plan.
*  Physical and financial implementation data.
*  Output, process and impact indicators for each activity in each location.
* Minutes of quarterly internal implementation reviews and assessments.
*  Field inspection reports.
*  Reports of joint PI evaluation missions.
Output, process and impact indicators. Each PI's M&E function would aggregate upwardly output,
process and indicators into sectors or components order to identify measurable achievements for the
program and thus serve as a basis for program evaluation. These components would be agreed with the
PMT according to the region's characteristics and priorities but might include work in public health,
education, vocational training and employment, support to micro-enterprises; support to women's
development; assistance to the disabled. Each of these programs should also have a cost attached to it in
order that overall output per beneficiary calculations may be made for purposes of evaluation.
Computerized Information database. Each PI would maintain simple interactive database system that
would enable tracking of program activities, implementation benchmarks, and output process and impact
indicators. The beneficiary disaggregated data (gender, specific socio-economic characteristics) should
also be included. (The interactive database used in the USAID NGO Project should be considered as an
example of the type of functionality to be considered. One of its main attractions is the ability to generate
53



website information, thus putting essential project information in the public domain.) PIs should give
serious consideration to the advantages of using a common system.
Qualitative and quantitative monitoring and assessment, and learning. The PI M&E function goes
beyond collection and aggregation of information at program level, and includes an active role of
questioning, undertaking qualitative studies to understand processes and impacts, and determining the
extent to which needs are being satisfied. The PI must develop the main link between a program's impacts
and its outcomes. Is the program effectively addressing poverty needs? What is its reach? What is the
sustainability of the processes and of the outcomes?
A major instrument for the learning and the process of on-going evaluation is the joint PI annual evaluation
missions to each program
Training. The PI M&E function will be both the recipient of training for building capacity for monitoring
and evaluation that will be provided in the context of the program, and the provider of training to the
community organizations, beneficiary communities and local NGOs in its program.
Monitoring and Impact Assessment at National Level
The M&E function at the national (PMT) level shall have the capacity (or shall be able to procure it) to
maintain and integrate "bottom-up" M&E systems as well as the more traditional "top-down" systems. It
will be responsible for quality control of information and of systems, capacity building, and the conduct of
special investigations and ground truthing in order to develop a picture of the evolution of the Project in
respect of:
*  Implementation.
*  Expenditure control.
*  Aggregate and disaggregated outputs (by sector, theme, gender and geographical area).
*  Aggregate and disaggregated impacts (by sector, theme, gender and geographical area).
*  Through special analyses and studies, the cost-effectiveness of different activities and
interventions, and the relative efficiency of the different PIs.
*  Evaluation of outcomes at mid-term and at end-of Project in respect of contribution to poverty
alleviation.
The PMT must be able, in particular, to provide geographically sensitive analysis. The PMT will have the
ability to "package" its results drawing simple messages for management, other government agencies, the
public and the Bank. It will produce progress reports on a quarterly basis and a substantive annual report.
Documentation of Lessons Learnedfor Longer-Term strategy Formulation
PMT will employ social specialists to analyse and document the learning experience from the CDP. The
evaluation would be formalized in reports, shared and tested in evaluation workshops. This information
could be used by the Government as a contribution to formulating a national strategy for poverty
alleviation, which the Government could undertake under a separate program.
The process of documenting and analyzing the CDP experience will be developed in a model of
intersectoral cooperation in periodic workshop environment. The CDP has included resources to fund
these event as a forum for debate of lessons learned and thus formulate methodologies and tools to improve
the strategies for poverty alleviation.
54



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3   Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7
Total Financing Required                      l                                1
Project Costs        _                         ____    ___
Investment Costs              0.20    4.80ww  10.20     9.70    4.60    0.00 a 0.00
Recurrent Costs               0.10    0.10      0.10    0.10    0.10 _ 0.00    0.00
Total Project Costs   0.30    4.90    10.30   9.80    4.70    0.00    0.00
Interest during construction    0.00    0.00  _  °°       0.00    0.00    0.00 _   0.00
Total financin    0.30    4.90    10.30   9.80 1 4.70    0.00 j  0.00
Financing                                     l                                 l
IBRD/IDA                     0.20    3.20      6.90    6.50    3.20    0.00    0.00
Government                    0.10    0.90     1.70     1.60    0.70    0.00    0.00
Central                   0.10    0.90     1.70     1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
Provincial                0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Co-financiers                0.00    o.oo      o T00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.00 1  0.80     1.70     1.70    0.80    0.00    0.00
Others                       0.00     0.001   0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00 I0.00
Total Project Financing   _ 0.30    4.90    10.0  9.80    4.70  | 0.00    0.00
Main assumptions:
The financing of the CDR Project Coordinator (CDR-PC), and support staff will be funded entirely by the
Government of Lebanon (GOL). The consultants will be funded 100 percent by the Bank. The Bank will
finance 90 percent of the goods, works and services provided under the PI programs. The cost of the
programs to be funded will exclude the in-kind beneficiary's contributions. It has been assumed that due to
the nature of the program, in the first year of implementation (Bank FY), that is after Bank approval of the
Loan, only the cost of the CDR-PC, and a part of the cost of the PMT, the first two PI programs will be
disbursed.
During this first year (Bank FY), procurement of the first seven regional PIs would be completed and actual
project implementation would start in the second year. It is estimated that about 15 percent of the PI
programs would be ready for implementation in the second half of the second year. The balance of the PIs'
programs would be ready for implementation in the third and fourth year. Therefore, the CDP
implementation would actually start at a faster rate in the first quarter of the third year. Finally, in order to
expedite project implementation, disbursements to PIs' contracts would be done in tranche advances to
cover about three months cash flow needs but not to exceed ten percent of the PI contracts, which would be
replenished on a monthly basis, after 50 percent of the initial deposit has been used, against documentation
as the programs are executed.
No operational costs have been considered for financing by either the Bank or the GOL. Arrangements will
be made during project implementation to establish beneficiary organizations for the operation and
maintenance of basic infrastructure services provided by the CDP.
55



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
General
I.    The current procurement system in Lebanon is governed by the Public Accounting law (1963) and
the Decree for Public Procurement (1959). The system is heavily centralized whereby procurement for
more than LBP 100,000,000 (approximately US$66,000) has to go to the Board of Tenders which is the
central procurement body. The Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) has financial
autonomy which allows it to have more flexible procurement procedures. For International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), CDR follows Bank Guidelines and uses the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD).
For National Competitive Bidding (NCB), the procurement procedures of CDR have been reviewed by the
Bank and found to be acceptable.
2.    The efforts to reform the public procurement system in Lebanon have been ongoing for several
years now. Currently, the Government has established a committee to review a draft for a new public
procurement law and to provide recommendations on decentralization of public procurement. In the
interim, the applicable provisions of the Loan Agreement and Project Agreement would govern
procurement decisions by CDR under this Project.
Use of Bank Guidelines
3.    For Works and Goods, procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (World Bank, January 1995, Revised January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999). ICB will not be applicable to this Project due to the small value
of the works and goods which would be unlikely to attract the interest of foreign bidders. For NCB, CDR
has modified the Bank's SBD for Procurement of Goods and the SBD for Procurement of Work, Smaller
Contracts. For other types of procurement that will be used for the subprojects, the Project Management
Team (PMT) will develop simplified bidding documents acceptable to the Bank that will be included in the
Operations Manual (OM).
4.    The thresholds and maximum aggregate amounts for each type of procurement will be established
in Schedule I of the Project Agreement. With regard to subprojects, the PMT will be responsible for
monitoring the aggregate amounts for each type of procurement managed by the PIs.
5.    The procurement of services will be carried in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (World Bank, January 1997 Revised September
1997 and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal (RFP) for Selection of Consultants (July 1997
Revised April 1998 and July 1999) and the standard forms of contracts (with some adaptation to fit the
special requirements of NGOs, where applicable) will be used for all contracts above US$200,000
equivalent. A simplified version of the standard RFP and contracts will be used for contracts below
US$200,000 equivalent, short term assignments and individual consultants. For the selection process of
firms, the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for Selection of Consultants (October 1999) will be used.
56



Advertising
6.    A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in United Nations Development Business
(UNDB) and at least two local newspapers. The GPN will provide a description of the Project and will list
all contracts for consultants services estimated at more than US$200,000. The GPN will be updated
annually for all outstanding procurement.
7.    Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) for the contracts of the PMT and PIs will also be published in
UNDB and in at least two national newspapers of wide circulation. The SPN will provide description of the
required PMT and PIs services and invite expressions of interest for the long list. Short lists will be
composed from these long lists.
8.    Upon approval of its program plan, each PI will advertise all procurement opportunities for civil
works, goods, training and technical assistance in the national press. This will help to create data banks of
interested suppliers, contractors and consultants for subsequent invitations to bid.
Procurement Capacity
9.    As Lebanon's central projects implementation agency, CDR has gained substantial experience in
procurement under World Bank loans. Its staff have the necessary capacity and skills in procurement and
contracts management.
10.   Due to the nature of this Project, the procurement of the subprojects will be managed completely
by the PIs. The PMT will be responsible for the preparation of all procurement activities for the selection
of the PIs and thereafter, it will continuously monitor the procurement activities of the PIs. For this
purpose, the PMT will have experienced procurement staff among its key personnel. In tum, the PIs will
recruit full time procurement officers to conduct procurement for the subprojects. The PMT procurement
staff will provide training for PI procurement officers whose skills need to be upgraded.
Procurement Plan
11.   The procurement plan is attached to this annex. It will include details for all activities prior to loan
effectiveness as well as for the first year of implementation. Prior to launching new procurement activities
under its contract, each PI will develop and maintain an updated procurement plan to be reviewed and
approved by the PMT. The PI procurement plan will use the format provided in the OM. Prior to
launching a new procurement activity under the Loan, the PMT will develop and submit, through CDR, a
specific procurement plan to the Bank for review and 'no objection'. The PMT will be responsible for the
quarterly update of the procurement plan for the whole Project. This plan will consolidate all the PIs plans
and any other activities financed under the Loan.
12.   Prior to loan effectiveness, the OM will be developed further for the Project. The procurement
section of this Manual will elaborate the details of the procurement procedures indicated in this annex.
Most importantly, it will detail procurement procedures that will be used for procurement of subprojects to
be executed under Community Participation methods. The OM will be subject to the Bank's no objection.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
13.   Project Management Team (PMT). Under the Project, the PMT will be recruited from the
private sector but located at CDR to provide the necessary additional capacity in managing this Project.
57



The PMT may be a management firm, a national or an international NGO, or a joint venture of both. To
comply with the Loan Effectiveness condition, the procurement of the PMT will be completed
expeditiously. The draft Terms of Reference (TOR) for the competitive selection of the PMT are attached
under Annex 12 of the PAD. The procurement responsibilities of the PMT under the Project are indicated
in the draft TOR. A draft SPN for the Expressions of Interest was prepared during pre-appraisal and will
be launched in May 2001. Selection will be in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Selection
of Consultants using the Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. The contract to be used will
be the complex time-based type.
14.   Project Intermediaries (PIs). The Project will be executed by the PIs. The PIs will be
international or national NGOs, or joint ventures of both. It is expected that PMT, acting on behalf of and
under instructions from CDR, will recruit about 20 PIs through the life of the Project. Each selected PI will
be required to design and submit a program that consists of an integrated set of initiatives, within a given
financial envelope (TBD). The value of the PI contract will be composed of two parts: (i) to undertake a
social assessment and formulate a program of subprojects; and (ii) to implement the approved program.
The first part will consist of a lump sum price and the second will be based on a management fee to
implement the approved program. The PIs will be responsible for procuring works, goods and services
required for the implementation of the initiatives, according to the OM.
15.   The PIs will be selected in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Selection of
Consultants. The SPN requesting Expressions of Interest will be launched prior to loan effectiveness. The
method of selection to be used is the QCBS using the standard RFP. The evaluation of the technical
proposal of the PI will take into consideration the criteria stated in Annex 13. The financial evaluation will
include the lump sum price for the social assessment and formulation of a program of subprojects and the
management fee to implement a program of a given value (TBD). The format for the presentation of the
lump sum and the management fees by PIs for the financial evaluation will be clearly detailed in the RFP.
For small value contracts under the thematic themes, due to their special nature, advance payment (not
exceeding 10%) to the NGO for the initial work will be permitted, without the need for a bank guarantee.
In all cases, no more than two PI contracts will be awarded to the same NGO.
16.   PI programs. For the implementation of the various program initiatives, the PIs will conduct the
procurement for these subprojects in accordance with the procedures outlined in the OM, using standard
bidding documents and forms developed and updated by the PMT.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
17.   Goods and Works: Procurement of goods and works will be carried out using the following
methods:
*  National Competitive Bidding, including national advertisements, bidding documents and public
bid openings will be used for contracts of works estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent
per contract and more than US$100,000 equivalent, and for contracts of goods estimated to cost
less than US$300,000 equivalent per contract and more than US$50,000 equivalent per contract.
The aggregate value of contracts that will be awarded under this procedure will not exceed
US$4,000,000 equivalent for works, and US$1,000,000 equivalent for goods.
*  National Shopping may be used for goods estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per
contract. The request for quotations shall be in writing and addressed to at least three suppliers.
The request for quotations will contain the following: technical specifications, delivery time,
payment conditions and any other information that may be help the suppliers to prepare
58



competitive offers. The aggregate value of contracts that will be awarded under this procedure
shall not exceed US$250,000 equivalent.
* Direct Contracting will be used for the specialized procurement of goods and works, when NCB
and methods under Community Participation  would not be efficient and economical. Direct
Contracting would follow the requirements in paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. The aggregate value of contracts that will be awarded under
Direct Contracting shall not exceed US$200,000 equivalent for procurement of both works and
goods.
* Procurement of goods and works with community participation. For the procurement of
subprojects by the PIs, and where the procedures defined above may not be applicable, further
simplified procedures that consider community participation may be used. The value of each
contract that will be procured under these methods will be less than US$100,000 equivalent for
works and less than US$50,000 equivalent for goods. The aggregate value of contracts for works
and goods that will be awarded under this method shall not exceed US$6,000,000 equivalent for
procurement of works and US$2,000,000 equivalent for procurement of goods. Simplified National
Competitive Bidding procedures will be used whereby the bidding forms, evaluation of proposals
and contract award procedures will be detailed in the OM. The simplified bidding documents for
goods will include the following information as a minimum: technical specifications, delivery time,
payment procedures and any other information necessary for the suppliers to submit competitive
bids. As for the procurement of small works, the simplified bidding documents will include the
following information as a minimum: specifications, bill of quantities, construction period,
drawings (if applicable) payment procedures and any other information necessary for the
contractors to submit competitive bids.
18.   Consultant Services: The following procurement methods for selection of consultants will be
used: (i) Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) will be used for the selection of the PMT, PIs and
other consultant services with value of contracts estimated at more than US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) Least-
Cost Selection (LCS) will be used for simple and routine services such as training, thematic studies, impact
assessment and social surveys, with the value of each contract estimated at less than US$200,000
equivalent; (iii) Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications (CQ) will be used for assignments
estimated at less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract; (iv) Single-Source Selection will be used for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract for firms and less than US$50,000
equivalent per contract for individual consultants and shall be in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of
the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants; and (v) Selection of Individual
Consultants will be used in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines.
19.   For assignments for consultant firms/NGOs estimated at less than US$100,000 equivalent, the
short list may be comprised entirely of national firms/NGOs, provided at least three qualified local firms
are available and competition including foreign consultants is not justified. However, foreign NGOs will
not be excluded from consideration, if they have expressed interest.
Prior Review Thresholds
20.   The following contracts will be subject for Bank's prior review:
* All contracts to be signed before loan effectiveness
* After loan effectiveness:
59



Works
-  All contracts above US$100,000 equivalent;
- All contracts awarded under Direct Contracting; and
-  The first contract for each PI program awarded under Small Works with Community
Participation procurement method.
Goods
- All contracts above US$50,000 equivalent;
- The first contract for each PI program awarded under National Shopping;
- All contracts awarded under Direct Contracting; and
- The first contract for each PI program awarded under Goods with Community Participation
procurement method.
Consultants' Services and Training
- All Terms of Reference (TOR).
- For the PMT contract, PIs contracts and contracts for consulting firms or organizations above
US$200,000 equivalent; the procedures set in paragraphs 1.2 (other than the third subparagraph
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
- For PIs contracts and contracts for consulting firms or organizations less than US$200,000
equivalent and more than US$100,000 equivalent, the procedures set in paragraphs 1.2 (other
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants
Guidelines shall apply.
- All contracts for individual consultants above US$50,000 equivalent.
- All single source contracts.
21.   All other contracts will be subject to post-review and procurement audit on a random basis by the
Bank. The PMT will be primarily responsible for monitoring procurement on behalf of the CDR, including
compliance to the procedures of the OM by the PIs. The mandatory review requirements of the PIs
procurement activities by the PMT will be clearly indicated in the procurement section of the OM. The
PMT will be responsible for maintaining accurate procurement records, including all actions and
documents related to the Project. Each PI will be responsible for maintaining accurate procurement
records, including all actions and documents related to its contract. The procurement files will be
maintained for review by the Bank's supervision missions. It is expected that about fifteen percent of the
contracts will be subject to prior review.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
22.   PMT and PIs: The implementing agency is the CDR which is well acquainted with the Bank
procurement procedures. The main procurement activity for CDR is the selection of the PMT and PIs and
the management of the PMT contract. The major risk perceived at the level of procurement of the PMT is
the time required to carry out the competitive selection process and to award the contract. However, this
process has already started and will be completed prior to Loan Effectiveness. Subsequently, CDR will
manage the contract with PMT by establishing a streamlined working relationship that will ensure a
sufficient level of flexibility but with an adequate monitoring of PMT's performance.
60



23.    At the level of the selection of the PIs, it is important to ensure that there is a wide range of
response to the Expressions of Interests requests in order to be able to have sufficient NGOs to prepare
short-lists for every PI package and that the short-listed ones respond to the RFPs. For this purpose, pre-
proposal briefing sessions will be conducted by the CDR initially and later on by the PMT for the short-
listed NGOs. The requirements for the RFP, and particularly the quality and cost criteria used for
evaluation, should be clear and applicable for all short listed NGOs. Special attention should be given to
defining the management fees so as to have consistent and fair comparisons of the financial proposal of the
NGOs. Appropriate technical skills on the selection conmmittee will be essential. To mitigate this risk,
CDR must appoint the appropriate experts for the evaluation teams from CDR and PMT staff with the
support of short term experts if required.
24.    PI programs of subprojects. The potential risk related to the procurement of subproject contracts is
the weakness of some NGOs in conducting procurement. For this purpose, the PMT will develop simplified
procurement documents and forms to be used by the PIs. The PMT Procurement Specialist will conduct
training for the assigned procurement officers in the PIs. The PMT will continuously monitor the
procurement activities of the PIs and assess the improvement in their procurement capacity.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
25.    Procurement supervision of the PIs by the PMT, representing CDR, will be an on-going process.
Supervision missions by the Bank will be carried out every four months for the first year and every six
months thereafter. The World Bank Office in Lebanon, however, will carry out procurement and financial
supervision, as often as required, including post-review audits on a random basis.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category         ICB      ProcuremenI Me               _          Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00         1.00          7.30        0.00        8.30
(0-00)      (0.65)        (4.75)       (0-00)      (5.40)
2. Goods                         0.00         0.20          1.80        0.00        2.00
(0.00)      (0.13)        (1.17)       (0.00)      (1.30)
3. Services                      0.00         0. 00         16.20       0.00   f   16.20
(0.00)      (0.00)        (11.00)     (0.00)      (11.00)
4. Training                      0.00         000           3.50        0.00        3.50
(0-00)      (0-00)         (2.30)      (0.00)      (2.30)
5. Interest during construction  0.00         0.00     l   0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0°00)      (0°00)
Total                            0.00         1.20          28.80       0.00        30.00
_ ___________  ____    (0.00)        (0.78)       (19.22)      (0.00)     (20.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, methods with community
participation, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services.
61



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                       Contracts Subject to
Expenditure         Threshold            Procurement                       Prior Review
1. Category      JUStho~usan )...            Meho         ..     All.... - -il-----
1. Works       <500,000            NtoaCopttv               .AlCnrcsPiroLaneffectiveness.
Bidding               i2. All Contracts above US$1I00,000
equivalent.
.3. All Direct Award Contracts.
<100,000           Procurement with       14.  First contract for each PI program
Community           ~~awarded with Community Participation
Participation Methodprcemnmthd
2. Goods          < 300,000           iNational Competitive    1. All Contracts Prior to Loan effectiveness.
IBidding               12. All Contracts above US$50,000
equivalent.
3.All Direct Award Contracts.
< 50,000            Procurement with        5. First contract for each PI program
Community                  awarded with Community Participation
Participation Methodprcemnmthd
4. First contract for each PI program
< 25,000            National Shopping           awarded under National Shopping.
3. Services,      'All Contracts        QCBS, LCS, CQ, SS and 1I. All contracts prior to Loan Effectiveness.
Consultant Services,                   individual consultants   I 2. All TORs, short lists, RFPs and contracts
Training                                                            for PMT, Pls and firms/NGO's
exceeding US$1I00,000 equivalent.
'3. Individual consultants exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent.
I4. All single source contracts.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$8 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
The overall procurement risk assessment is Medium. Paragraphs 23-25 give details on some of the
perceived risks and suggested actions to mitigate such risks.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: In the first year, as often as required, thereafter,
one every four months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits). Procurement
supervision will be carried out by the Bank office in Lebanon.
62



Disbursement
The allocation of loan proceeds by expenditure category as summarized in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
, .. . .................. ............. ...... . .. . .. ... . ............. ........... . ............ . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .. 
Amount of the
Category                       Loan Allocated    % of Expenditures to be
:    (US$Financed
(1)  Subproject grants under:                                                   90
(a) Part A (2) of the Project        .            11,000,000
(b) Parts A (1) and B of the Project               3,000,000
1(2)  Consultants' services and training                4,000,000               100
(3)  Fee                                                 200,000    Amount due under Section 2.04
~~~~__ ___ _ __._.___.___   ~
(4)  Premia for interest rate caps and interest rate collars   0   Amount due under Section 2.09
_ ______   i________         ___                 (c) of the L    Aeement
1(5)  Unallocated                                       1,800,000
T_t_a l___O_Total_   20,000,0000
Documents for Withdrawals
Disbursements will be based on traditional methods, which include the use of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Once the PMT financial system is ready for PMR-based disbursements (refer to the Financial
assessment section), and if the Borrower decides, full conversion to PMR-based disbursement will be
considered as per the Loan Agreement. It is expected that the PMT will be able to submit quarterly PMR
reports to CDR, who in turn will forward the reports to the Bank, within six months from effectiveness.
Initially, withdrawals from loan proceeds will be made utilizing the Bank's traditional disbursement
instruments, including SOEs and Special Accounts (SAs). The replenishment of SAs will be based on
receipt of appropriate documentation.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
During the transition period, and prior to the PMT/CDR readiness for PMR-based disbursements, SOEs
will be used for all expenditures for: (a) Subproject Grants under contracts costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each; (b) services under consultant firms contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent
each and under individual consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (c)
training under contracts costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. The supporting documentation would be maintained by
the CDR and made available for review by Bank supervision missions upon request.
Special Account (SA)
To facilitate the management of funds, the CDR will open a SA at the Central Bank of Lebanon with
authorized allocation in an amount equivalent to US$2 million and an initial deposit in an amount
equivalent to US$1 million, and the full allocation could be claimed when disbursements shall equal or
exceed an amount equivalent to US$5 million. Replenishment of the SA would follow Bank's procedures,
and a bank's statement of SA activity would support all replenishment applications. The minimum amount
for applications for direct payments and special commitments would be 20 percent of the respective
authorized allocations to the SA. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank as specified in the Action Plan. The audit report should be submitted to the Bank for review
within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
63



Lebanese Republic
Community Development Project
Procurement Plan
2001           2002           2003      i     2004          1200
ID   O      Task Name                                      Duration      Start         Finish     1 |Q2 Q3   4Q102|03Q4 012 Q3 04                 Q0203|4|
1          GENERAL                                            0 days   Mon 6118/01    Mon 6/18/01         6/18
2               General Procurement Notice                     0 wks   Mon 6/18/01    Mon 6/18/01         6/18
3
4           PMT selection                                   895 days   Mon 6/18/01    Fri 11/19/04             g               I i
5        \      Special Procurement Notice                     0 wks   Mon 6/18/01    Mon 6/18/01         6/18
6               Submission of Expression of Interest           4 wks   Mon 6/18/01     Fri 7/13/01    .
7               Preparation of Short List                      2 wks   Mon 7/16/01     Fri 7/27/01
8               WB review of Short List                         1 wk   Mon 7/30/01      Fri 8/3/01
9               WB No-Objection for Short List                0 days      Fri 8/3/01    Fri 8/3/01    .8/3
10              Preparation of TOR & RFP                       3 wks   Mon 6/18/01       Fri 7/6/01
11              WB review of RFP                               2 wks    Mon 7/9/01     Fri 7/20/01
12              WB No-Objection for RFP                       0 days     Fri 7/20/01   Fri 7/20/01           20
13              Issuance of RFP                                5 wks     Mon 8/6/01     Fri 9/7101
14              Submission date / Bid opening                 0 days      Fri 9S7/01     Fri 9/7/01    *     I
15              Technical Evaluation (TE) & TE report          2 wks   Mon 9/10/01     Fri 9/21/01
16              WB review and No-Objection                      1 wk   Mon 9/24/01     Fri 9/28/01
17              Financial Envelopes opening and evaluation     2 wks   Mon 10/1/01    Fri 10/12/01
18              WB review of Final report and No-objection      1 wk  Mon 10/15/01    Fri 10/19/01t
19              Negotiation & preparation of contract           1 wk  Mon 10/22/01    Fri 10/26/01
20              WB review and No-Objection                      1 wk  Mon 10/29/01      Fri 11/2/01           h
21              Award contract/intemal processing              3 wks   Mon 11/5/01    Fri 11/23/01     ..
22              Effectiveness of contract                      0 days    Fri 11/23/01    Fri 11/23/01             1/23
23              Commencement of services                     156 wks  Mon 11/26/01    Fri 11/19/04
24
25          Short Listing process for Pis                    55 days   Mon 6/25/01      Fri 9(7/01
26   J3         Special Procurement Notice                     0 wks   Mon 6/25/01    Mon 6/25/01            S
27              Submission of Expression of Interest           5 wks   Mon 6/25/01      Fri 7/27/01
28              Preparation of Short Lists                     4 wks   Mon 7/30/01      Fri 8/24/01
29              WB review of Short Lists                       2 wks   Mon 8/27/01       Fri 9(7/01 
30              WB No-Objection for Short Lists                0 days     Fri 9(7/01     Fri 9/7/01           9f7
31                                                                                                     .
32          Selection of PI for RPA1 & RPA2                 710 days   Mon 5/21/01      Fri 2/6104
33              Preparation of TOR & RFP                       8 wks   Mon 5/21/01      Fri 7/13/01                            --
Page 64



Lebanese Republic
Community Development Project
Procurement Plan
2001           12002           12003             2004            20
ID   0       Task Name                                         Duration       Start          Finish    Q1IQ2IQ3IQ41IE2ItIQ4101 2IQ3I041Q1 I2IQ3  I4Q10
34               WB review of RFP                                  2 wks    Mon 7/16/01      Fri 7/27/01
35               WB No-Objection for RFP                          0 days      Fri 7/27/01    Fri 7/27/01              7
36               Issuance of RFP                                   6 wks    Mon 9/10/01     Fri 10/19/01
37               Submission date Bid opening                       0 days    Fri 10/19/01    Fri 10/1 9/01             10119
38               Technical Evaluation (TE) & TE report             4 wks   Mon 10/22/01    Fri 11/16/01
39               WB review and No-Objection                        2 wks   Mon 11/19/01     Fri 11/30/01
40               Financial Envelopes opening and evaluation        2 wks    Mon 12/3/01    Fri 12/14/01
41               WB review of Final report and No-objection          1 wk   Mon 12/17/01    Fri 12/21/01
42               Negotiation & preparation of contract             2 As   Mon 12/24/01        Fri 1/4/02
43               WB review and No-Objection                        2 wks      Mon 1/7/02     Fri 1/18/02
44               Award contractUintemal processing                 3 wks    Mon 1/21/02       Fri 2/8/02
45               Effectiveness of contract                         0 days      Fri 2/8/02     Fri 2/8/02
46               Assessment and development of Pi program         24 wks    Mon 2/11/02      Fri 7/26/02
47               Implementation of Pi programs                    80 wks    Mon 7/29/02       Fri 2/6/04               .I                 -
48
49           Selection of Pi for RPA3 & RPA4                    700 days    Mon 6/1U01       Fri 2/20/04            I i                    I    I       j
50               Preparation of TOR & RFP                          6 wks    Mon 6/18/01      Fri 7/27/01
51               WB review of RFP                                  2 wks    Mon 7/30/01      Fri 8/10/01      . 
52               WB No-Objection for RFP                           0 days     Fri 8/10/01    Fri 8/10/01              10
53               Issuance of RFP                                   6 wks    Mon 9/24/01      Fri 11/2/01
54               Submission date / Bid opening                     0 days     Fri 11/2/01    Fri 11/2/01               1 1/2
55               Technical Evaluation (TE) & TE report             4 wks    Mon 11/5/01    Fr 11/30/01
56               WB review and No-Objection                        2 wks    Mon 12/3/01    Fri 12/14/01       .
57               Financial Envelopes opening and evaluation        2 wks   Mon 12/17/01    Fri 12/28/01
58               WB review of Final report and No-objection          1 wk   Mon 12/31/01      Fri 1/4/02
59               Negotiation & preparation of contract             2 wks      Mon 17/02      Fri 1/18/02
60               WB review and No-Objection                        2 wks    Mon 1/21/02       Fri 2/1/02
61               Award contract/internal processing                 3 wks     Mon 2/4/02     Fri 2/22/02
62               Effectiveness of contract                         0 days     Fri 2/22/02    Fri 2/22/02                    2/22
63               Assessment and development of Pi program         24 wks    Mon 2/25/02       Fri 8/9/02
64               Implementation of Pi programs                    80 wks    Mon 8/12/02      Fri 2/20/04
65
Page 65



Lebanese Republic
Community Development Project
Procurement Plan
2001          12002           12003            2004           12
ID   O      Task Name                                        Duration       Start         Finish     1 tQ2|0304101 Q2 3| Q401Q 20|Q2Q3 102|3|4|Q
66           Selectlon ot Pi for RPA5 & RPA6                  660 days  Mon 11126/01       Fri 614104
67               Preparation of TOR & RFP                        4 wks   Mon 11/26/01    Fri 12/21/01
68               WB review of RFP                                2 wks   Mon 12/24/01      Fri 1/4/02
69               WB No-Objection for RFP                        0 days       Fri 1/4/02    Fri 1/4/02                 /4
70              Issuance of RFP                                  6 wks     Mon 117/02     Fri 2/15/02
71               Submission date / Bid opening                  0 days      Fri 2/15/02   Fri 2/15/02     .tl5
72               Technical Evaluation (TE) & TE report           3 wks    Mon 2/18/02      Fri 3/8/02     .
73               WB review and No-Objection                      2 wks    Mon 3/11/02     Fi 3/22/02
74               Financial Envelopes opening and evaluation      2 wks    Mon 3/25/02      Fri 4/5/02
75               WB review of Final report and No-objection      2 wks     Mon 4/8/02     Fri 4/19/02
76               Negotiation & preparation of contract           2 wks    Mon 4/22/02      Fri 5/3/02
77               WB review and No-Objectlon                      2 wks     Mon 5/6/02     Fri 5/17/02
78               Award contract/intemal processing               3 wks    Mon 5/20/02      Fri 6/7/02
79               Effectiveness of contract                      0 days       Fri 6/7/02    Fri 6/7/02
80               Assessment and development of PI program       24 wks    Mon 6/10/02    Fri 11/22/02
81              Implementation of Pi programs                   80 wks   Mon 11/25/02      Fri 6/4/04
82
Page 66



Lebanese Republic
Community Development Project
Procurement Plan
2001           2002            2003            2004            200
ID    0     Task Name                                        Duration       Start         Finish    01|0?|Q3|Q410102 03104 01 02 03|Q41Q1TQ2Q3441  01
83           Selection of Pi for RPA7                         660 days   Thu 11/15101   Wed 5(26A14
84   S           Preparation of TOR & RFP                        4 wks   Thu 11/15/01   Wed 12/12/01
85               WB review of RFP                                2 wks   Thu 12/13/01  Wed 12/26/01
86               WB No-Objection for RFP                        0 days  Wed 12/26/01  Wed 12/26/01        .2I6
87              Issuance of RFP                                  6 wks   Thu 12/27/01    Wed 2/6/02
Submission date I Bid opening                  0 days    Wed 2/6/02    Wed 2/602                   4,26
89               Technical Evaluation (TE) & TE report           3 wks      Thu 217/02   Wed 2/27/02
90               WB review and No-Objection                      2 wks    Thu 2/28/02   Wed 3/13/02
91               Financial Envelopes opening and evaluation      2 wks    Thu 3/14/02   Wed 3/27/02
92               WB review of Final report and No-objection      2 wks    Thu 3/28/02   Wed 4/10/02       .
93               Negotiation & preparation of contract           2 wks    Thu 4/11/02   Wed 4/24/02
94               WB review and No-Objection                      2 wks    Thu 4/25/02    Wed 5/8/02
95               Award contract/intemal processing               3 wks      Thu 5/9/02   Wed 5/29/02
96               Effectiveness of contract                      O days   Wed 5/29/02   Wed 5/29/02        -                 52
97               Assessment and development of Pi program       24 wks    Thu 5/30/02  Wed 11/13/02
98              Implementation of PI programs                   80 wks   Thu 11/14/02   Wed 5/26/04
99
100          Selection of Pi forThematicl & 2                  470 days  Mon 12/17/01     Fri 10/3/03
101              Preparation of TOR & RFP                         4 wks   Mon 12/17/01     Fri 1/11/02
102              WB review of RFP                                 2 wks    Mon 1/14/02     Fri 1/25/02
103              WB No-Objection for RFP                         0 days     Fri 1/25/02    Fri 1/25/02     *            1/2        
104              Issuance of RFP                                  6 wks    Mon 1/28/02      Fri 3/8/02
105              Submission date / Bid opening                   0 days      Fri 3/8/02     Fri 3/8/02     -/a
106              Technical Evaluation (TE) & TE report            3 wks    Mon 3/11/02     Fri 3/29/02
107              WB review and No-Objection                       2 wks     Mon 4/1/02     Fri 4/12/02
108              Financial Envelopes opening and evaluation       2 wks    Mon 4/15/02     Fri 4/26/02
109              WB review of Final report and No-objection       2 wks    Mon 4/29/02     Fri 5/10/02
110              Negotiation & preparation of contract            2 wks    Mon 5/13/02     Fri 5/24/02
111              WB review and No-Objection                       2 wks    Mon 5/27/02      Fri 67/02
112              Award contractrintemal processing                3 wks    Mon 6/10/02     Fri 6/28/02
113              Effectiveness of contract                       0 days     Fri 6/28/02    Fri 6/28/02
114              Assessment and development of Pi program        16 wks     Mon 7/1/02    Fri 10/18/02
115              Implementation of Pi programs                   50 wks  Mon 10/21/02      Fri 10/3/03
Page 67



Lebanese Republic
Community Development Project
Procurement Plan
2001          12002          12003           12004          12
ID 1        Task Name                                       Duration      Start        Finish    Q1T|Q21         03141 0112  Q3 I4 01 I Q2 03 04 0 Q1 02 0Q3 I Q41 01
116
117          Selection of Pi torThematic 3 & 4               470 days    Mon 117102    Frl 10/24/03
118              Preparation of TOR & RFP                       4 wks    Mon 1/7/02      Fri 2/1/02
119             WB review of RFP                                2 wks    Mon 2/4/02     Fri 2/15/02
120             WB No-Objection for RFP                        0 days     Fri 2/15/02   Fri 2/15/02    .I15
121             Issuance of RFP                                 6 wks   Mon 2/18/02     Fri 3/29/02
122              Submission date / Bid opening                 0 days     Fri 3/29/02   Fri 3/29/02             . 3/29
123              Technical Evaluation (TE) & TE report          3 wks    Mon 4/1/02     Fri 4/19/02
124              WB review and No-Objection                     2 wks   Mon 4/22/02      Fri 5/3/02
125              Financial Envelopes opening and evaluation     2 wks    Mon 5/6/02     Fri 5/17/02
126             WB review of Final report and No-objection      2 wks   Mon 5/20/02     Fri 5/31/02
127              Negotiation & preparation of contract          2 wks    Mon 6/3/02     Fri 6/14/02
128             WB review and No-Objection                      2 wks   Mon 6/17/02     Fri 6/28/02
129             Award contractrintemal processing               3 wks    Mon 7/1/02     Fri 7/19/02
130              Effectiveness of contract                     0 days     Fri 7/19/02   Fri 7/19/02                           9
131             Assessment and development of Pi program       16 wks   Mon 7/22/02     Fri 11/8/02
132             Implementation of PI programs                  50 wks  Mon 11/11/02    Fri 10/24/03
Page 68



Annex 6 (a): LACI Certification
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Report on the Assessment of the PMR-based Disbursements
Ineligible for PMR-based Disbursements
Part I: Financial Management System
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management
system as required by the Bank/IDA under under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System," and focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, intemal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor, as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report
(PMR) to be submitted by the Borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely infornation
on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA for PMR-Based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an
agreed action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Financial Management Specialist                                          dlv,
obert Bou Jaoude, MNACS             Date
Part Il: Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The
objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system
adopted by the project conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management Tequirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract
management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract
management (PMR - Section 3) as required by the Bank/IDA. This will be developed by the
Project Management Team (PMT) as part of their terms of reference.
69



The "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting of Prior
Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" ,as included in the guidelines issued by
the, Bank will be carried for the Council for Development and Reconstruction prior to loan
effectiveness.
Signed by:                                                                      Zo Iq
Procurement Specialist
Imad Saleh, MNACS                 Date
Part HII: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including
its monitorable indicators for major outputs. In my view, the system cannot provide the
appropriate data on physical progress (PMR - Section 2) required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with
an agreed action plan by the Borrower to remedy the situation.
Also, based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS, and/or considering my overall
assessment of the project, I am of the view that this project is not suitable for PMR-based
disbursements.
Signed by:                     _ _      _      _    _                 V1     jz, 2rY4
Task Team Leader                 _
Bassam Ismail Ramadan, MNSHD            Date
Part IV: Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonable review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the
project, and I concur with its recormmendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-based
disbursements.
Signed by:
FMS-LOA/DO                           q          -s                                       °
Ardrina A. Ambrose-Gardiner, LOAGI        Date
70



Annex 6 (b): Financial Management
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
I.    Current Financial Management Practices
Financial Management at CDR
1.    CDR is a public authority established to be the Government's arm for planning and implementing
projects for economic development and for rehabilitation and reconstruction of public infrastructure. To
bypass the Government administrative routine, CDR was granted exceptional authority and was exempted
from laws and regulations applicable to the public administration. This authority has and is still allowing
CDR to implement projects within shorter time than other Government agencies and ministries.
2.    CDR' s financial system was assessed by examining the accounting system, accounting policies and
procedures, budgeting system, reporting, staffing, internal controls policies and procedures, internal
auditing and external auditing arrangements. CDR financial management system was found to be
satisfactory and meets the Bank minimum requirements though this system lacks the support of a budgeting
module and is not capable of generating timely and meaningful reports for project management.
3.    An effective organization and financial structure characterize the control environment at CDR.
Segregation of duties and responsibilities such as invoice processing, accounting duties and issuance of
payments is well observed in the day to day transactions. CDR records are subject to post audit by the
Government Court of Accounts, and an external independent auditor performs the annual audit to the
financial statements. CDR accounting policies follows encumbrance accounting; the consolidation of the 7
funds created by CDR, generates the Council's financial statements. Bank-financed projects are accounted
for under funds 1 and 4 being the "Revenues et Comptabilite des Projects" funds. CDR financial system
uses the signed contracts as cost allocation centers thus making it incapable of generating timely reports for
project management purposes. For every new project, a separate ledger account is created in order to
monitor the source of funds and to reconcile the project special account opened at the Central Bank of
Lebanon. All Bank-financed projects implemented by CDR, have been based on traditional method of
disbursements using SOEs and direct payments.
4.    To support CDR's efforts to reinforce its institutional set-up and to modernize its accounting and
budgeting systems, the Bank provided an IDF grant in the amount of US$150,000. This grant partially
financed the strengthening of the management information system to allow an interface between the
various information systems of the finance, procurement and project physical progress. Among other
outputs, CDR should produce a new chart of accounts that will allow adequate reporting including the
Bank required PMRs. However, the transformation of the system was delayed due to a general atmosphere
of uncertainty regarding the future role of CDR at the time of the implementation of the system upgrade.
Presently, CDR is revising the project targets and adjusting the plans for the completion of the tasks in
order to bring the upgraded system into operation.
Accountina. Reporting. Auditing Practices at NGO Level
5.    There are no rules or laws in Lebanon that regulate the operations of NGOs. Applying for a permit
from the Ministry of Interior (MOI) is the only prerequisite for the establishment of an NGO. Publishing
the "constitution notice" of the NGO in the public gazette is considered as the green light to commence
activities in the country. The only financial requirement for renewal of NGO permits, by MOI, is to present
71



with the renewal application, a copy of the previous year financial statements, certified by a registered
accountant, plus budgeted financial statements for the following year's operations. There are no written
financial policies, procedures and standards that govern the preparation and the presentation of these
financial statements. The capability of NGO's accounting and reporting systems vary from computerized/
advanced to nonexistent. NGOs that are seeking funds from international donors have upgraded their
systems in order to comply with the financial and reporting requirements of such donors.
II.    Financial Management Arrangements
6.    Four levels of different agencies, governmental, NGO's/others and contractors/consultants will be
involved in the implementation of the Project. CDR system is capable to follow on financial transactions;
however, to avoid the risk of CDR not being able to: (i) integrate budgeted activities for performance
comparison and decision making; and (ii) generate timely reports for project management and monitoring
purposes--the services of the PMT will be required to manage these tasks in close cooperation with CDR
Finance Department which, in turn, will be responsible for the project funds and for the management of the
SA. The PIs will execute the Project's activities (programs) either directly or by engaging the services of
third party contractors/consultants. CDR will forward to the PIs advance payments that in turn will be paid
to the contractors/consultants upon delivery of the work or service contracted. The only funds channeled to
the PMT will be their fees as defined in the contract agreement signed between CDR and the PMT.
7.    CDR. The execution of the Project is the responsibility of CDR who will be assisted by the PMT
engaged for the day-to-day project administration. The flow of the Loan funds will be through the SA
opened at the Central Bank of Lebanon under the name and jurisdictions of CDR. Withdrawal applications
and SA replenishments will be remitted by CDR to the Bank under authorized signatures. PIs' invoices for
advance payments or for incurred expenses, after being verified and cleared by the PMT, will be subject to
CDR controls and procedures and will be honored through payments issued by CDR. The PMT, as an
extension to CDR Accounting Department, should have the capability to compile the project budget and
cash forecasts and to maintain a parallel reporting system able to replicate CDR ledger and to generate
PMRs. To facilitate this reconciliation an inter PMT/CDR account should be created within the PMT
ledger.
8.    PMT. In order to overcome the shortcomnings in CDR financial system, the assistance of the PMT
will be required to manage financial management transactions. The PMT will be responsible for the overall
supervision of the activities including project planning, budgeting, invoice clearing, consolidating project
information and reporting on these activities to CDR. The selection process will ensure that the entity
recruited for the PMT will have adequate resources to administer the financial management aspects of the
Project including a full time financial officer, an accountant and an adequate accounting software capable
of being configured to the project reporting needs. The PMT accounting system should be able to provide
accurate, reliable, and timely accounting information on project's funding and activities and for each
individual component, sub-component and by PIs. It should also provide periodical reconciliation of the
PMT transactions with CDR accounts that in turn have to reconcile its ledger account with the Project
special account. The proposed PMT will have the responsibility to coordinate work with the PIs who will
be awarded implementation contracts. The PMT will have fiduciary responsibility towards CDR. To fulfill
these requirements, it has to ensure that its systems provide the necessary financial and physical progress
information to the project management at all levels during implementation. The PMT will be responsible
for the design of the reporting requirements at the level of the PIs. This design should be able to provide
the necessary data for the preparation of the quarterly PMRs. The PMT financial and reporting obligations
will be made explicit in the RFP. The capability of the PMT to reply to the Bank's financial requirements
72



including the generation of the quarterly PMR will be one of the selection criteria. The contract should
define the roles, relationship and responsibilities of the PMT towards CDR and the PIs.
9.    It is expected that the PMT accounting system needs six months, from effectiveness date, to
finalize test and certify the system configurations for the production of the required PMR. During this
transition period, interim arrangements will be developed at CDR to have in place a simple reporting
system reflecting CDR ledger. This step is needed to follow up and transfer to the PMT all records and
activities that take place during this transition period. To assist CDR in generating timely reports, an
agreement was reached during negotiations with the CDR management on the following arrangements:
*  Appoint a qualified financial specialist to follow up on the project accounts.
*  Modify CDR procedures describing the flow of documents in order to assure its passage by the
assigned employee.
*  Agree to the issuance of quarterly reports showing the project sources and uses of funds, uses of
funds by project activity, contracts expenditure report and procurement monitoring tables.
10    PIs. The PIs are the selected NGOs to be in charge of designing and implementing a program of
subprojects. Despite the fact that NGO's have no particular laws regulating their financial procedures and
standards, the practice is that this matter is left to the entity and its own governance structure. However,
due to their role in managing the Bank funds, PIs will be assessed on the basis of capability to meet
minimum financial requirements. One essential selection criteria for PIs will be the ability of their financial
management systems to follow up on cash transactions, project activities and to generate timely reports as
needed by the PMT for the PMR preparation plus their audit arrangements. The TORs of the PIs financial
and reporting obligations should be forwarded by the CDR to the Bank for review and clearance after
which they will be made explicit in the RFP. In addition, the PMT should assess and certify each of the PIs
systems prior to any transfer of funds.
11.   The appointment of the PMT, fully staffed, is a condition of effectiveness. The selection will be
based on TORs acceptable to the Bank including the capability requested to admninister the financial
management aspects of the Project.
12.   The PMT financial officer, in coordination with CDR Finance Department, will be responsible for
the preparation of the PMT/CDR Manual of Procedures (MOP) detailing the following:
*  level of coordination between PMT financial officer and CDR Finance Department;
*  flow of documents and the time frame/invoice clearance and levels of authority;
*  supporting documents retention and safety;
*  periodic reconciliation procedures between CDR ledger and PMT records;
*  transparency of the Project activities and the audit trail for the review of CDR auditors;
*  contract integration into PMT system upon signature by CDR and the PIs;
*  PIs costing methods (differentiating between direct costs and overhead);
*  standardize in-kind contribution evaluation;
*  the chart of accounts adapted to the Project;
*  budgeting process;
*  financial reporting, including forrmats of PMRs, the reporting required from PIs, and the frequency
of such reports;
*  accounting policies, procedures and controls needed at PIs level for financial system certification;
73



*  the description, development, and communication of reporting requirements from the PIs;
*  the frequency and type of visits and other controls to be performed by PMT to monitor PIs' work
and records;
*  the TOR of the annual external audit for PIs; and
*  interest earnings of CDR advances to PIs are of CDR and shall be returned to CDR.
III.   Financial Management Reporting Arrangements
13.   Interim Period. During the first 9 months from effectiveness date, CDR will remit to the Bank the
following quarterly reports:
* Sources and Uses of Funds
* Uses of Funds by Project Activity
* Contract Expenditure Report
* Procurement Monitoring Tables
Format of reports were agreed upon during negotiation.
14.    Starting 9 months after effectiveness. Quarterly PMRs for the Project issued by the computerized
accounting system. These reports would be management-oriented and would be used for project monitoring
and implementation. The PMRs should include the three following parts:
(i)    Financial Reports that include:
i-a    Project Sources and Uses of Funds
i-b    Uses of Funds by Project Activity
i-c    Project Cash Withdrawals (Disbursement)
i-d    Special Account Statement
i-e    Project Cash Forecast
(ii)   Project Progress Reports that include:
ii-a   Output Monitoring Report (Contract Management)
ii-b    Output Monitoring Report (Unit of Output by Project Activity)
(iii)   Procurement Management Reports that include:
iii-a   Procurement Process Monitoring - Goods and Works
iii-b   Procurement Process Monitoring - Consultants' Services
iii-c   Contract Expenditure Report - Goods and Works
iii-d   Contract Expenditure Report - Consultants' Services
The format of the reports were agreed upon during negotiations and will be included in the PMT/CDR
MOP.
74



15.   Annually. Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) will be submitted to the Bank. PFS, will
include:
(i) Statement of sources and utilization of funds, indicating funds received from various sources,
project expenditures.
(ii) Appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by components, expenditure and Loan
Categories showing yearly and cumulative balances.
(iii) Special Account Reconciliation Statement.
(iv) Statement of Project Expenditure.
IV.   Auditing Arrangements
16.    CDR Level
CDR will remit to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each year the audit report of the
Project. The external audit report shall encompass all Projects' activities and shall be in accordance with
internationally accepted auditing standards e.g., International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The annual
audit report of the Project Accounts shall include a separate opinion as to whether the PMRs or SOEs
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures of internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support related withdrawals. Also, the audit report shall include a
separate paragraph on the Special Account reconciling opening and year-end balances. In addition to the
audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter" identifying any observations, comments and
deficiencies, in the system and controls, that the auditor considers pertinent and shall provide
recommendations for their improvements. The TOR for the auditor will be prepared and submitted for the
Bank's no objection, at least, nine months prior to the end of the Project fiscal year.
17.   PIs Level
All PIs shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect their operations and financial conditions.
These accounts and financial statements will be audited yearly in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied. The PIs will furnish to PMT/CDR not later then 3 months after the end of
each year copies of the audit report for:
(i) The program financial statements presented in the form of:
* Statement of sources and utilization of funds, indicating contributions received from various
communities.
* Appropriate schedules showing program expenditures and cumulative balances.
* Project Account Reconciliation Statement.
This audit report shall include a separate opinion as to whether the requests for funds submitted during
such fiscal year to CDR, together with the procedures of internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support related withdrawals. Also, the audit report shall include a separate paragraph on
the Project Account reconciling opening and year-end balances. In addition to the audit reports, the auditor
will prepare a "management letter" identifying any observations, comments and deficiencies, in the PIs
system and controls, that the auditor considers pertinent and shall provide recommendations for their
improvements. The receipt of other than unqualified audit report for the certified PI shall result in
immediate suspension of disbursements. The standard TORs for the PIs auditors shall be prepared and
75



submitted for the Bank's no objection and will be made explicit in the PIs' RFP. As part of the overall
audit of the Project, the CDR appointed auditors will undertake a review of the sources and uses of funds
of the certified PIs to form an opinion on and to certify the financial statements of the Project activities as a
whole. If requested, CDR auditor will be allowed access to the PIs' books and records relative to the
program.
(ii) Certified copies of PIs' financial statements as so audited for the overall activities of the entity or
PI.
V.   Action Plan for Financial Management System Set up (agreed upon during negotiations)
18.   Phase 1: Prior to Effectiveness
At CDR
*  Appoint a financial specialist to follow-up on the project accounts. Prior to the readiness of the
PMT accounting system, CDR will be responsible for the project financial management.
*  Modify CDR procedures to include the assigned staff in the document cycle.
*  Finalize the TORs of the PIs financial, reporting and auditing obligations.
At PMT
*  Select and engage the PMT (condition of effectiveness) with a qualified financial officer and a
procurement officer among its core staff.
Phase 2: After Effectiveness
At CDR and PMT
*  Finalize MOP between CDR and PMT--defining the procedures and time needed to process a
transaction (payment) and agree on measures for periodic reconciliation between them.
At CDR
*  Amend CDR external auditor contract to include the auditing requirements of the Project. The
present CDR external auditor will be assigned based on Bank's review of TOR to perform the audit
of the Project.
At PMT
*  Certify PMT financial system--as being capable of generating reports to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
VI.   Disbursement Arrangements
19.   At CDR level
To ensure that funds are readily available for the Project implementation, a Special Account (SA)
in US dollars will be opened at the Central Bank of Lebanon and will be operated by CDR. Initially, an
advance for the equivalent of about six months expenditures will be transferred to the SA upon
effectiveness of the Loan and receipt of a signed withdrawal application. The maximum amount of this
initial advance is estimated at US$1,000,000 equivalent. Replenishment applications will be prepared and
76



submitted to the Bank by CDR. Authorized signatories, names and corresponding specimens of their
signatures will be submitted to the Bank. Upon full testing of the PMT accounting system, disbursements
based on quarterly PMRs may begin.
During the transition period, the SA will be replenished using traditional methods of disbursements
by means of SOEs for those expenditures below the threshold and direct payments accompanied by
supporting documentation for the balance. A training seminar, on the above procedures, will take place
during the Project launch workshop.
20.   At PIs Level
Once a PIs' system is certified to handle its financial transactions, disbursements may begin based
on a request for funds. The PI shall open a Project Account in a local commercial bank, and submit the
account number and bank address, along with the names of two authorized signatories and signature
specimens to the PMT. The signatories are the only persons authorized to sign requests for funds. The
certified PI will then submit the requests for funds for an advance, specifying the amount of funds needed
for the first quarter, accompanied by a cash-flow forecast based on the budgeted activities. The PMT
should communicate the format of the requests for funds, cash-flow forecast and formats of all reports to
the certified PI. Subsequent requests for funds should be submitted quarterly to the PMT accompanied by
financial and activity progress reports plus supportive documentation for incurred expenses. Also, the
certified PI shall submit monthly the reconciliation of the Project Account accompanied by a copy of the
bank's statement.
The PMT staff (finance and/or procurement) should undertake visits to the certified Pls, as needed,
to review the accounting and procurement documentation and records to ensure compliance with the
Project Agreement and its governing procedures. Upon receipt of the requests for funds and any of the
reports mentioned above from the certified PI, the PMT reviews the documentation to decide on the
amount of funds needed to be transferred, through CDR, to the certified PI. In case of failure to comply
with the PMT communicated procedures and/or absence of reliable information from the certified PI,
disbursement will be suspended until compliance with requirements is met.
VII.  Bank Supervision
21.   The financial actions of the Project will require intensive supervision during the start up phase and
during implementation at the PMT/CDR and the PIs levels. The Bank supervision will be provided by the
Country Office. It will intensify during pre-effectiveness period to ensure the action plan is on time and the
PMT accounting system has been configured to replicate CDR ledger and to generate the required quarterly
PMRs. Then the first supervision mission after effectiveness will take the form of a launch workshop
where the PMT will be trained on Bank rules, regulations and guidelines. The Project will be supervised
every four months for the first 20 months, then every six months thereafter. Bank missions will consist of
visits to PMT/CDR and field trips to selected PIs to review financial management practices, procurement
methods and payments procedures and documentation.
77



VUII.   Action Plan - Timetable
2 2.    The following schedule summnarizes the implementation of the financial management action plan
over the next 18 months.
Action                          Output                  Agency          Action Date
Interimi Procedures
Appoint CDR specialist to      Project accountant in place.     CDR            June 21, 2001
follow-up on the project
accounts.
Modify procedures              Streamline of procedures         CDR             July 10, 2001
Prior to Effectiveness
Finalize Pls financial TORs    Pls RFP                          CDR             July 13, 2001
Sign contract to engage PMT    Contract PMT                     CDR            November 23, 2001
(Condition for effectiveness)
Post Effectiveness
PMT/CDR Manual Of              Facilitates and clarifies       1CDR, PMT        January 15, 2002
Procedures (MOP)               pToceduTes, payment du-ration and
transaction reconciliation.
Test the PMT reporting system    Format and content of PNMR     PMT             January 15, 2002
Amend CDR external auditor    Engagement letter is signed       CDR             March 31, 2002
contract
Issue the first draft PMR (1s'  Management reports              PMT, CDR       May 15, 2002
Quarter)
Issue of the second draft PMR    Final PMIR                     PMT, CDR        August 15, 2002
(2n" Quarter)
Generate official PMR          Certification of AIS             Bank,           July 1, 2002
CDR Auditor iNovember 15, 2002
78



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
Project schedule               Planned        Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     5
First Bank mission (identification)       03/05/2001    03/05/2001
| Appraisal mission departure              04/23/2001    04/23/2001
Negotiations                              05/01/2001    05/08/2001
Planned date of effectiveness             01/15/2002
Prepared by:
Council for Development and Reconstruction and the World Bank
Preparation assistance:
Poverty mapping, MOSA and UNDP, 1995; Socio-economic household surveys since 1995; World Bank
study on the micro finance sector in Lebanon, June 2000; World Bank Poverty Study, 1999-2000; World
Bank Social Protection Note; World Bank NGO's assessment studies.
Bank staff who worked on the Project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Bassam Ramadan, MNSHD           Sr. Economist (Task Team Leader)
Sherif Kamel Arif, MNSRE        Regional Environmental Coordinator/Sr. Environment Specialist
John Keith Rennie, MNSRE        Sr. Social Scientist
Concepcion E. Del Castillo, MNSRE   Sr. Social Scientist
Allan Rotman, MNSRE             Sr. Enviromnent Specialist
Frederik Kranz, MNAVP           Sr. Procurement Advisor (Consultant)
Ghada Youness, LEGOP            Sr. Counsel
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner, LOAGI  Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Christine Helen Allison, SASED  Lead, Human Development Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
David Seth Warren, LCSHS        Sr. Social Protection Specialist (Peer Reviewer)
Nabil Shehadeh, MNACS           Re. Financial Management Advisor
Robert Bou Jaoude, MNACS        Financial Management Specialist
Imad Saleh, MNACS               Procurement Specialist
Sati Arnaout, MNSHD             Development Specialist (Consultant)
Mario Antonio Zelaya, MNSHD     Social Development and Infrastructure Specialist (Consultant)
Randa Nemer, MNSHD              Environment Specialist (Consultant)
Mona Khalaf, MNSHD              Gender Specialist (Consultant)
Afifa Alia Achsien, MNSHD       Program Assistant
79



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
Draft Operations Manual (OM)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mapping and Review of Lebanese NGOs
The Lebanese Micro Finance Industry: Status and Challenge
Environmental Assessment Guidelines for Operations Manual
Social Assessment Report to Measure the Outcomes of Beneficiary Participation and Learning across
proposed Subprojects
Lebanon Social Protection Note
C. Other
Regional Socioeconomic Development Programme for South Lebanon, Government of Lebanon and
UNDP
Integrated Rural Development Project, UNDP and FAO
The 1997 Household Living Conditions Survey,
80



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LEBANON: Community Development Project
Difference between
Original amnount in                          expected and actual
US$ millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY                   Purpose                  IB3RD       IDA       Cancel    Undisb.      Orig.      Ferm Rev'd
P045174       2000     General Education                       56.57      0.00        0.00     56.00          3.60        Om0
P050544      2000       First Municipal Infrastructure         80.00      0.00        0.00     80.00          7.00        0.00
P038687       1998      Vocational & Technical Education       63.00      0.00        0.00     62.61         31.00       17.51
P038674       1997      National Roads                         42.00      0.00        0.00     34.03         32.23        6.07
P036087       1997      Power Sect. Restructuring              65.00      0.00        0.00     22.89         16.89        7.89
P034037       1997      Agriculture Infras. Development        31.00      0.00        0.00     25.42         13.62        0.00
P034035       1996      Administration Rehab.                  20.00      0.00        0.00      8.91          8.91        0.14
P005345       1995      Solid WastelEnvirownent                55.00      0.00        0.00     49.10         46.60        0.00
P034004       1995      Health Project                         35.70      0.00        0.00     27.56         27.34       17.86
P005344       1994     Irrigation                              57.20      0.00        0.00     26.39         26.39        000o
P005340       1994      TA for Revenue Enhancement             19.90      0.00        0.00     10.05         10.05        5.96
P005336       1993      Eme gecyRecovery                      17.0        0.00        0.00     30.74        -19.26        9.74
Total   700.37       0.00       0.00    433.70        204.37       65.17
LEBANON
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Apr.2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
tEC                                    IFC
_______                  Loan    Equity   ~~~~~~ ~~~Quasi    Partic -~Loan  Sqiy   Quasi    Partic
1997           AC4.17                           0.00      0.00     0.00       4.17      0.00      0.00     0.00
1993/96/98     BBAC                    3.44     0.0       0.00     4.56       3.44      0.00      0.00     4.56
Bank of Beirut         12.38     0.00      0.00     0.00       1.88      0.00      0.00    0.00
1997          Banque Audi             9.81     0.00       0.00     0.00      9.81      0.00      0.00     0.00
11993/96/98    Banque Libasaiase       0.75     0.00      0.00     0.15       0.75      0.00      0.00     0.15
1994          Banque Saradar          0.00    11.00       0.00     0.00      0.00      11.00     0.00     0.00
1199 7/99      Byblos Bank            35.00     0.00      0.00    34.00       7.61      0.00      0.00     7.39
1993/96/99     Cimnenterie Naft        8.30     0.00      0.00    11.70       8.30      0.00      0.00    11.70
1995           ETIvL Services         12.50     0.00     10.00    28.13      12.50      0.00     10.00    28.13
I1997           Fransabank              3.30     0.00      0.00      4.34      3.30      0.00      0.00     4.34
I1993/94/96     Idarat                 10.00     1.50      0.00      0.00      5.00      1.50      0.00     0.00
1998           Idarat SH{V             3.00     0.00      0.00     0.00       3.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
1998           Leb. Credit lns.        0.00     0.50      0.00     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000           Lebanese Leasing        1.75     0.00      0.00      2.91      1.75      0.00      0.00     2.91
1995/99        Libano-Francaise        6.88     0.00      0.00     9.78       6.88      0.00      0.00     9.78
1994/96        SGLEB                   5.16     0.00      0.00     7.50       5.16      0.00      0.00     7.50
1994/96        Ujniceramic             0.00     0.00      0.80     0.00       0.00      0.00      0.80     0.00
1993
Total Portfolio:    116.44  13.00    10.80    103.07     73.55      12.50    10.80    76.46
Approvals pending commitment
Pt' approval   Company         La      Equity   Quasi   Partic
2001          SaradaT - CL2        8.00    0.00      2.00    0.00
1997          Transorient CL4      0.00    0.00      0.00     7.50
1993          BYBLOS BANK           0.00    0.00     0.00    3.00
2001          Baltic SME         I0.00    5.00       2.50    0.00
1997          BankBeirut CLA       0.00    0.00      0.00    7.50
1997         Banque Saradar        o .00    0.00    0.00    7.50
Total pending conunitment    8.00   5.00    4.50    25.50
81



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: Community Development Project
M. East   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Lebanon      Africa   income      Development dlmond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        4.3       291       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   3,720      2,060     4,900
GNP (Ahtas method, USS billions)                      15.9       599      2,811
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population (3)1.7                                                 2.1       1.4
Labor force (X)                                        3.2        3.0       2.1    pGNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (X oftotalpopulation)                  89        58        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        68        70
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                27        45         27
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)               3         15         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (X ofpopulation)       100         71        78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    14        36         10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  111        95        109          -Lebanon
Male                                                 113       102               |         Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               108        8a
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1909      1998      1999
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                                     2.7       16.7      16.6
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                                    24.0      22.0                     Trd
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     18.4       10.8      11.8                      rade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      -11.5     -11.6
Gross national savings/GDP                                        3.7       3.5
Current account balance/GDP                           13.0      -20.8     -15.1      Domestic
Interest paymentslGDP                                  0.4        1.1       1.9     Savings                      Investment
Total debUGDP                                         37.7       40.2      50.8
Total debt service/exports                             3.2        8.9      16.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                        4000
Present value of debtUexports                                   133.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           8.3      2.0       -1.0       1.8     I     -Lebanon
GNP per capita                                6 .0    -0.8       -3.1       0.5               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                10.5      5.9        8.2      11 .2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      19iS      Growth of investment and GDP t%)
(X of GDP)                                                       10
Agriculture                                     .        ..      12.8      13.0
Industry                                                         27.4      25.0    20
Manufacturing                                                  17.9      18.0
Services                                                         59.7      62.0                   o0
54    5
Private consumption                                              97.4      96.9    -20
General govemment consumption                          18.1      14.1      14.7                     GDI       *  GDP
Imports of goods and services                         91.6       46.3      45.4
1979-09  19U9-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports t%l
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            2.8        3.0       0.2    o0
Industry                                               0.4        3.0      -9.8    40
Manufacturing                                         1.8       3.0      -0.5
Services                                                1 4      -2.8       2.8    20'
Private consumption                                    4.3        1.3      -1.6      o,
General government consumption                         5 2      -23.0       3.3             94   45      )_
Gross domestic investment                             11.5       -8.3      -9.3    20-
Imports of goods and services                          5.7      -12.2      -2.9               oExprls   _Impons
Gross national product                                 7.0        0.8      -1.7
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
82



Lebanon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FiNANCE
Domestic prices                             1979    1989        1998     1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                                 ..    42.7       3.8       0.5    20
Implicit GDP defiator                          ..    73.0        7.8      -0.1
Government finance                                                                                        !        _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Currentrevenue                                  ..     4.7       17.6     19.4             94   95   9w   97   Oa   99
Current budget balance                         ..   -31.9        -8.6     -9.3             -     GDP deflator  OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -34.4       -13.6    -14.3
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1979    1989        1998     1999       Export and Import levels (USS mlil.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..       ..       716       677     12,000
Paper and paper products                      .        ..      251       230
Foodcandfoodstuffs                            ..      ..       121       112      9,000-
Manufactures                                 ..
Total imports (cif                            ..       ..    7,070    6,207        e
Food                                         ..3.
Fuel and energy                              ..
Capital goods                                 ..      ..         ..    -..           o-
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..3   94  9s   s   97  Be  99
Import price index (1995t00)                  I. ..               ..       ..                    Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(125$ mIllions)                             1979    1989        1998     1999       Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..    499       1,616    1,677      0
Imports of goods and services                   ..   2,489     7,623    6,699           *_             _
Resource balance                                ..  -1*990    -8,007   -5,022    -10  *-
Net income                                      .     690        220       100
Net currenttransfers                            ..   1,652     2,313     2,413
Current account balance                        ..    352    -3,474    -2,509    -30
Financing items (net)                          ..   -395       2,913     1.263
Changes in net reserves                                43        561     1,246
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$S milions)                  ..    9,207    10,454
Conversion rate (DEC, loalUSSJ $)                    496.7   1,516.1  1,507.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     CompositIon of 1999 detbt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         278    1,023      6,726     8,446
IBRD                                        22       37        199      234
IDA                                          0        0          0         0              G: 1,250          301
Total debt service                             10       92       450       825                                  E: 321
IBRD                                         3        3         20       25
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             68       69        107       150
Official creditors                          54       -23       119        27
Private creditors                            0        2      1,408     2,404
Foreign direct investment                    0        2        200    2,154
Portfolio equity                             0        0        147       60                           F: 6,340
World Bank program
Commitrnents                                 0        0         63         0     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               12        0         48       49      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - PrIvate
Principal repaymernts                        2        2          9        12     C - IMF                     G - Shoft-term
Netflows                                    10       -2         38       37
Interest paymnts                              1        1           1I     13
Net transfers                                9        -3        28        24
Development Economics
83



Additional: Annex II
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (CDR)
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT COORDINATOR (PC)
Project preparation and implementation
1. Responsible for coordinating with the World Bank, the CDR's President and the MOF, all required
clearances and approvals related with the CDP. Ensures the World Bank receives all official
communications from either the CDR or MOF regarding the CDP.
2. Responsible for coordinating the timely implementation of the CDP with the CDR's concerned departments
(planning, projects, legal and finance) and the board (approvals of PI contracts and programs) on one hand,
and the World Bank (reviews and no objections, disbursements) and the PMT (CDP program execution,
monitoring and evaluation, contract management and payments) on the other.
3. Review and seeks approvals by the CDR and the World Bank of project related documents, procurement
I   and disbursements, implementation manuals and other project related activities technical seminars and
workshops to participating NGOs on the preparation of subproject proposals, procurement procedures, etc.
4. Prepares the appropriate procurement documents for the selection of the PMT and PIs consultants and '
participates in the evaluation committee for selecting the PMT and PIs Consultants.
5. Reviews and obtains approvals of the CDR and the World Bank of updates to the Operations Manual (OM).
6. Ensures that there is coordination and complimentarity with govermment and donor-sponsored activities and
ensures the PMT establishes a system for regular consultation and exchange of information with sector
ministries, the CDR and the NGO community in Lebanon.
Finance and accounting
.... . ..........  ..........  ..  .    .. .. .. ........ - . ... ...........-................ . >ii. ....  . S:7...... .... ....  ....
1. Reviews and authorizes all payments (disbursements) made under the CDP to the PMT, PIs and
consultants.
2. Ensures the PMT maintains proper accounting records for all CDP activities and ensures their proper and
timely integration into a Financial Management Information System (FMIS) and reconciliation with CDR
ledger.
Ensures the PMT compiles on a regular basis the financial status of the CDP in accordance with sound
accounting standards and issues, on a quarterly basis, Project Management Reports (PMRs) acceptable to
the Bank.
Project supervisionand evaluatiou
1. Ensures that PMT monitors all activities linked to PI's subproject agreements.
2. Ensures that PMT uses appropriate management information system, and established and NGO database to
keep NGO-specific statistics (in order to facilitate monitoring).
3. Reviews, informs and obtains approvals of the CDR and the World Bank on potential delays and changes in
subproject costs and financing.
4. Follows-up the PMT's supervision of the project execution by the PIs and reviews and informs the CDR
and the World Bank on supervision reports and disbursement schedules prepared by the PMT.
5. Reviews the PMT's methodology for systematic evaluation of PI's performance (using subproject
evaluations, beneficiary assessments, etc.).
6. Reviews and follows-up on the PMT's assessment of overall NGO performance on an ongoing basis and
shares these findings with the the CDR, sector ministries and the World Bank.
7. Reviews the work of the PMT to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and Project
Agreement, particularly as it regards to the environmental screening of subprojects, and to provide
environmental expert services to review the design and implementation of subprojects classified EA
Category B, and to ensure that appropriate mitigative measures are incorporated and implemented.
84



Additional: Annex 12
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM (PMT)
Project preparation and procurement
1.  Responsible for ensuring the timely implementation of the CDP by the Pls, and maintains the CDR and the World Bank
informed through the CDR PC.
2.  Develops appropriate, simplified documents and implementation instructions in compliance with the CDP operations
Manual (OM) and offers technical seminars and workshops to participating Pls to clarify the requirements for the
preparation of programs proposals, procurement procedures, and other project implementation aspects.
3.  Prepares the appropriate tender documents for the selection of the Pls and TA consultants.
4.  Participates in the evaluation committee for selecting the Pls and TA consultants.
5.  Updates the OM on program appraisal criteria and guidelines, improves appraisal mechanisms and together with Pls
develop uniform monitoring and evaluation indicators for each type of subproject initiative for incorporation in the OM.
6.  Ensures coordination and complimentarity with government and donor-sponsored activities.
7.  Establishes a system for regular consultation and exchange of information with sector ministries, the CDR and the NGO
community in Lebanon
8.  Screens subprojects to identify those classified EA Category B for further review and ensure compliance with the EA
Guidelines and that appropriate mitigative measures are incorporated in the design and implemented.
9.  Ensures compliance with the applicable section of the Loan and Project Agreements regarding the execution of the
CDP.
Finance and accounting
1.  Reviews and recommends approvals or other pertinent actions to be coordinated by CDR PC such as disbursements
made or to be made under the CDP to the Pls and TA consultants.
2.  Reviews and audits all disbursements made under the CDP by the Pls and informs the CDR and the World Bank
through the CDR PC.
3.  Maintains proper accounting records for all CDP activities and ensures their proper and timely integration into a
Financial Management Information System (FMIS), and reconciliation with CDR ledger.
4.  Compile on a regular basis the financial status of the CDP and issues, on a quarterly basis, the PMRs acceptable to the
Bank.
Project supervision and evaluation
1.  Monitors all activities linked to subproject implementation.
2.  Uses appropriate management information systems, and establishes a PI database to keep NGO-specific statistics (in
order to facilitate monitoring and evaluation).
3.  Informs CDR and the Bank through the CDR PC of potential delays and changes in subproject costs and financial
requirements.
4.  Supervises the project execution by the Pls and the work of TA consultants.
i 5. Prepares supervision reports and disbursement schedules for the CDR PC's review and follow-up.
6.  Establishes a methodology for systematic evaluation of NGO and CDP performance (using subproject monitoring and
evaluations indicators, beneficiary assessments, etc.).
7.  Assess overall NGO performance on an ongoing basis and shares these findings with the CDR and the World Bank
through the CDR PC.
8.  Provides the services of environmental specialists to supervise those subprojects classified EA Category B, and ensures
that appropriate environmental mitigative measures are incorporated in the design and execution of subprojects.
9.  Ensures that PIs and consultants contracted by the CDR for the execution of the CDP fully comply with the provisions
of the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement, paying particular attention to the procurement and disbursement
conditions.
10. Provides all necessary support to the CDR and the Bank in the supervision of the CDP by the Bank.
11. Actively participates in all project reviews, particularly the mid-term review and assist the CDR in the preparation of the
I..lementation Completion Report (IC...
85



Additional: Annex 13
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
QUALIFICATION OF PROJECT INTERMEDIARIES (Pls)
Criteria                                         Description
1. Credibility    Proven track record in implementing similar projects during the last three years with target
and Legal      beneficiaries not being limited to specific gender or religion.
status:       . Detailed and accurate books and records of its finances and should provide regular, accurate, and
appropriately detailed reports.
Periodic assessment of the results of its activity by established measurements and compares them
with set standards.
Verification of an NGO's legitimate legal status.
Confirming the organization's credibility through informal consultations with active donors in
'Lebanon in order to identify recently created ad hoc groups, which have been created primarily to tap
foreign funds, which have a questionable history in the transparent management of funds, or which
lack legitimate grassroots links.
Verifying that eligible NGOs understand and practice sound accounting principles and that (where
applicable) they have no objection to external auditing.
2.             Verifying ties to local cornmunities and the extent to which potential beneficiaries consider the NGO a
Representativity legitimate representative of their interest is an important criterion.
'Representativity of local NGOs by assessing the level of accountability to members, local
communities, structures to reach and consult with target groups, democratic and inclusive decision-
making and responsiveness to beneficiary interests. Establishing community ties and building mutual
trust is a long-term process. A project involving the creation of new groups or the extension of NGO
activities into areas where they have had no previous contact should take this into account.
3. Specific    Confirm the availability of the required personnel with relevant skills and knowledge and capable of
comnpetencies   identifying and implementing similar programs; of particular importance is the NGO capacity to
produce financial management reports suitable to meet the Bank's minimum requirements under the
CDP. Joint-ventures of complementary experienced organizations may be considered if there is
capability of working together.
Review human resources and technical expertise by examining the adequacy of the competency of
personnel to specific roles envisaged for the NGO. For example, the characteristics of NGOs chosen
to provide technical assistance and training will differ from those selected to implement a subproject.
The strengths and competencies of individual NGOs vary enormously. NGOs may have a specific
sector or geographic specialization. They may focus on participatory techniques, service delivery, or
both. It is therefore essential to determine which types of skills are required for the specific task at
hand and to choose the NGO accordingly.
86



Confirm the presence of a monitoring system capable of providing timely infornation on progress in
project irnplementation.
l Ability to demonstrate familiarity with the project area and to show an established track record in
grassroots interventions, and credibility with local population.
4. Institutional I The organization should have clear, well-defined and written policies and transparent procedures
lcapacity       relating to employees and volunteers, prohibiting conflicts of interest of members of the board,
officers, employees, consultants, and volunteers.
The organization should demonstrate that it has provided adequate training for the Board, staff, and
volunteers during the last three years of operations.
The organization should demonstrate efficiency in the management of financial and human resources
as evidenced by the level of overhead costs.
I Institutional capacity to meet Project needs. This includes adequate staff, sound internal
management, financial stability, sufficient facilities, equipment, vehicles, etc. Even when NGOs are
optimistic about their ability to "scale-up", careful consideration should be given to subproject
proposals, which significantly exceed the scale of an NGO's past activities.
5. Proven track i Proven track record in working with the poor and vulnerable groups and in working with other NGOs
record          at the local and national level. The assessment of NGO capacity should not be only based on the
organization's stated goals and interests but on its proven track record. Where possible, information
provided by the NGO about its past activities and impact should be cross-checked with other sources.
The most effective way of evaluating an NGOs track record would be to consult those most directly
affected by the NGOs activities. An NGO's level of past experience in working with the Bank,
govermment or other international donors is another factor, which could be taken into account.
6. Relationship Credibility and acceptability to stakeholders and government and political neutrality. An NGO's
i with          relationship with government is a factor, which can be key to successful collaboration. State-NGO
Government    relations are complex and as a general rule, collaboration should be limited to NGOs, which are non-
political and do not engage in overt partisan political activities. Collaboration with NGOs that are
considered opponents of the State can be problematic, as can collaboration with government-sponsored
NGOs that are effectively a creation of government and do not represent any independent constituency.
7. Criteria for  Three (3) years experience in providing training on technical and business aspects to micro credit
NGOs providing entrepreneurs.
training and    Adequate outreach, resources and extension services capabilities in support of micro entrepreneurs.
business support
to micro-credit  Capability of working with financial intermediaries lending to micro entrepreneurs to provide parallel
schemes         training and support services to widen the coverage of access to credit by strengthening the business
operation.
Wide experience in training beneficiaries through field officers.
87



Additional: Annex 14
LEBANESE REPUBLIC: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SAMPLE OF SUBPROJECT AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (CDR) AND PROJECT INTERMEDIARIES
(PIs)
Agreement dated                    between the Council for Development and reconstruction (CDR)
on behalf of the Government of Lebanon (GOL), hereinafter referred to as the CDR, party of the first part,
and                        (abbreviated name of NGO concerned), party of the second part.
WHEREAS:
(a) Under the terms of the Loan Agreement no ... of ... (date) concluded between the Government of
Lebanon (hereinafter referred to as The Government) and the World Bank (hereinafter referred to as the
Bank), a loan in various currencies in an amount equivalent to US$20 million has been approved to help
finance the execution of the Community Development Project (hereinafter referred as the CDP) which
consists of grassroots development initiatives designed to help improve the living conditions of the most
disadvantaged segments of the population as described in Annex 2 to the Loan Agreement. The Loan
Agreement further stipulates that the responsibility for the execution of the CDP on behalf of the
Government is delegated to the CDR, and that implementation shall be done through experienced and
qualified national and international Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), which shall serve as Project
Intermediaries (hereinafter referred as PIs);
(b) The _   _   (name of NGO concerned), which was selected by the CDR, following the Bank's
guidelines for the procurement of consultants, as a qualified PI for the execution of the a component of the
CDP, has prepared a grassroots development program called            (name of the Program)
(hereinafter referred to as the Program) described in Annex I to the present agreement, which the CDR
finds acceptable and in accordance with the stipulations of the CDP operations Manual, and has requested
the CDR's financial assistance for execution of the said Program;
(c) Consequent upon the foregoing, the CDR has agreed inter alia to provide financial assistance to
(name of NGO) on the conditions set forth hereinafter.
NOW THEREFORE, the parties to the present Agreement hereby agree as follows:
Article 1
DEFINITIONS
1.1 The term "financial assistance" designates a sum of money granted by the CDR to
(name of NGOs), pursuant to the provisions of Article 2 of the present
Agreement, by way of contribution by the CDR to the financing of the Program.
88



Article 2
FINANCING
2.1 The CDR agrees to contribute to the financing required for execution of the Program by granting
financial assistance to ____(name of NGO) in the equivalent amount of US$           . The
(name of NGO) will maintain separate project accounts to permit external audits, which shall
comply with the specific requirements stipulated in the CDP Operations Manual. The CDR will reserve the
right to inspect these accounts or have independent auditors to review these accounts and the use of funds
to verify that they are used for eligible subprojects included in the approved program.
2.2 The contract amount will be disbursed by the CDR in tranches as advances to the contract, each to be
deposited into a separate special Program account opened in the name of  (name of NGO) in a
banking institution where         (name of NGO) keeps its usual accounts.
The first tranche in an amount of ten percent (10%) of the contract amount will be disbursed promptly after
signature of the present Agreement without a requirement of a bank guarantee by the CDR.
2.3 Each subsequent tranche will be disbursed when at least 50 percent of the initial advance has been
used, and up to reaching ninety percent (90%) of the contract amount. A ten percent (10%) of the contract
amount will be retained until completion of the program. Replenishment of the advances will be done
against all necessary accounting documents (such as order notes, invoices, contracts, equipment delivery
notices, etc.) vouching that the amounts already disbursed have indeed been used for the needs of execution
of the Program.
2.4 The amount of the financial assistance duly disbursed by the CDR is not reimbursable by the
(name of NGO) except in the cases referred to in Article _ of the present Agreement.
2.5 In the event that under the Loan Agreement, the right of the Government to effect withdrawals from the
Bank Loan's Special Account is temporarily or definitively suspended, for whatever reason, disbursement
of the financial assistance to the Program will be similarly and simultaneously suspended for the same
period or definitively, as the case may be.
Article 3
EXECUTION OF THE PROGRAM
3.1               (name of NGO) shall execute the Program in accordance with applicable provisions
of the CDP Operations Manual, the financial proposal defining the value of the overhead fee, the technical
proposal defining the program and its execution and the revisions to the same as negotiated with the CDR,
and the Loan Agreement, which are part of this contract. The execution of the program shall be done with
all due diligence and efficiency, applying appropriate administrative, financial and technical management
methods. The      _     (name of NGO) shall inform the CDR promptly of any circumstance that
would hinder or be likely to hinder the execution of the Program, and shall maintain necessary
documentation and accounts giving the facts of all expenditures related to the Program. The documents
listed in the list of attachments to this contract form a part of this contract. The provisions in the Loan
Agreement prevail over any other documents in cases of any discrepancies or omissions between these
documents.
89



3.2               (name of NGO) shall report its work directly to the Project Management Team
(PMT) on all aspects of Program implementation as required in the CDP Operations Manual and as
stipulated in this agreement.
3.3               (name of NGO) shall (a) purchase goods and services in accordance with the World
Bank procurement procedures included in the Loan Agreement and stipulated in detail in the CDP
Operations Manual; and (b) ensure that all the goods and services financed by the financial assistance are
used exclusively for the execution of the Program.
3.4                  (name of NGO) expressly recognizes that the CDR and the World Bank have the
right to inspect the goods and services referred to in paragraph above, either alone or jointly with the
representatives of the CDR. To that end, the CDR and the World Bank representatives shall have free
access to the work sites, works, plants, and structures forming part of the program and to all documents
relating to the management of the Program.
3.5 Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 3.4 above,       (name of NGO) shall
promptly furnish the CDR with all information that the World Bank may wish to receive concerning the
execution of the Program, the management and financial situation of          (name of NGO)
and the benefits that could accrue to the target population upon completion of the Program.
3.6 Subject to the provisions of Article 2.5 above, the CDR may suspend or terminate the right of
(name of NGO) to withdraw the undisbursed amounts of the financial assistance if
(name of NGO) shall fail to comply with any of the obligations incumbent upon it by
virtue of the present Agreement. If            (name of NGO) shall fail to remedy any such
deficiency within 60 days after it has been so notified by the CDR, the CDR may require - (name of NGO)
to reimburse all sums already withdrawn by _ _  (name of NGO) by virtue of the present Agreement
unless         (name of NGO) demonstrates to the satisfaction of the CDR that the said sums have
already been used for the needs of the Program.
3.7                 (name of NGO) shall furnish to the CDR: (a) not later than  of each year, a
progress report on the Program execution, the reasons for any delay that has occurred in execution of the
Program and all measures taken or to be taken to remedy it and to ensure completion of the Program on
schedule, and (b) three months after completion of the Program, a program completion report describing
the activities executed under the Program and the measures taken to ensure that they are managed properly.
Article 4
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
4.1 All notifications or requests that are required to be or that may be made by or to either of the parties by
virtue of the present Agreement shall be made in writing. Such notification or request shall be deemed to
have been duly made when delivered into the hands of or by letter to the party to which it is to be made, at
the address of such party specified below or to any other address that such party shall have notified to the
party making the said notification or request.
For the CDR                              For              (name of NGO)
(Address)                                      (Address)
90



4.2 All measures that are required to be or that may be taken and all documents that are required to be or
that may be signed by virtue of the present Agreement shall be signed on behalf of the CDR by and on
behalf of                (name of NGO) by                         (title of person empowered to
sign).
CDR                                             (Name of NGO)
By                                       by
(Title)                                         (Title)
Attachments:
1. Detailed approved program description.
2.      (name of NGO) technical and financial proposal and the minutes of contract negotiation
(technical aspects of the program and overhead fee as negotiated with the CDR).
3. CDP Operations Manual, Loan Agreement (LA) and Project Appraisal Documment (PAD).
91






MAP SECTION






3500'                                                   36 00'                                                  3630'
LEBANON O N                                                      \ni
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
34-30'                                                                                                                                                                          34 , oUm
U C    tO;H LEITNON            NI    BOUNDA
ShOkkUTH  L N  /      Z__________(__
M    e d i t e r r a n e a n                                5    10   15 Kh
160 A              Q,                             0~~~~~.,o d  o opy  c eoo!hW~dBoooop  e
,                                TaboriaX         /   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~ESR0JE                                                     X  4   ? .
34000'                                                  Jaun,   /00 /                                      Z+,E          7    A B-3
B}EIRUT                        4                 ,/         ) % 5t
BEI                                      j2361, <*
)    S             S          I~~~~~~~D    2 o   A
Jih   EL CH U,         9     f    AG4/B 1/  
f S k S /S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1598~ 9machq
S o i d a ;tJ X     )          (:  RACHAIYA         ,>                _    ~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS
33¢30'            ,/ahroni7   1                    t 1   /    \LE  /948  ,R-ch.iy.                                      PRIMARY HIGHWAYS                            3-0 
-33-30' ~  ~                                    '       1EZF                            2154,                                 RAI LROADS
/   9  ~~~~~~~~\   ; & /                g   / ~~~~~~~~~~~~+                        AIRPORT
)f    JSJ      ~~52               /          HASBAYA                                             A886   SPOT ELEVATIONS IN METERS
ABTI                                  y-Nbbe9   i y u                                            *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
( ff  )   /   /2  !               .'                                         s    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) CAPITALS
X_ovA  NAI fTIY5H N'A530_                                                                          c     SELECTED CITIES
4J*16 5_|/.JGREATER BEIRUT
Tyr    trI<                                    f                                                                   -      CAZA BOUNDARIES
(SarT                      /   W      R    J I§                                                                            GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) BOUNDARIES
| .[ SOUR    n 3 \   )                                                           _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
s             LOT :EBAN f                           0      5    l0   15 KILOMETERS                       Thil .op - p.d .. d by lheMop D-p gUnit .Th. Wldd B-
/       /~~~~~ BINJBI                ;                                                                 Tbe b-ud-ri.,, -lndnmntosod onohr   m h -nshw
/'  ,Xd8 t         S         t             O ~ ~         ~ ~~~~~~ 5  110  I'SMILES               - fh,, .op doo--ply, -nh.poa Th. W-rld  -kG-op, any
>  4>           )     ~    ~ ~~~~~~ ~943A_r                                                                     judg-,n on sh.       .(..Y wsialus. -fsylero y -o nyed--aeor
o |T. Hefa (H.ifa)          _                 3036300'                                                                                                         36°130                  o



