Report No. PID10085
Project Name                     Lebanon-Community Development Project (CDP)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region (MENA)
Sector                           Other Social Protection
Project                          LBPE71113
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF LEBANON (GOL)
Implementing Agency
Address       COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND
RECONSTRUCTION (CDR)
Contact Person: Mr. Mahmoud Osman, President
Ms. Nada Mufarrij, WB Projects
Coordinator
Tel: (961-1) 981-396/431/432
Fax: (961 1) 981-252/253
Email: nadam@cdr.gov.lb
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 8, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 23, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 21, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Project Rationale: Addressing regional inequity in the provision of
basic infrastructure while improving the access of the poor to social
services has always been a key priority for successive Governments in
Lebanon. The Government is committed to a development strategy that
focuses on the balanced and equitable development of all the regions
of Lebanon. This strategy aims also at promoting a culture of
performance in the provision of social services through community
participation in decision making and NGO involvement in service
delivery.
The steady decline in economic growth since the mid 1990s, coupled
with a weak social safety net and inadequate and untargeted public
spending on social programs has led to a deterioration in living
conditions, especially among lower income groups and in less
advantaged parts of the country. In southern Lebanon, two decades of
occupation have left behind an area with a neglected infrastructure
and in desperate need of repair and reconstruction. The area, home to
about 120,000 people, was cut off from the rest of Lebanon during the
occupation by Israel, which provided electricity, water, telephones,
hospitals and jobs. Since the withdrawal of Israeli troops from
southern Lebanon on May 24, 2000, the Government moved quickly to
capitalize on the Israeli withdrawal by appealing for international
economic assistance to develop the region. Prompt measures to restore
water, telecommunications, electricity, public hospitals, schools,
roads and Government buildings were initiated immediately after the
Israeli withdrawal.



On July 21, 2000, the Government announced a five year development
plan (US$1.34 billion) for the reconstruction of the liberated South
and West Beka'a, including an emergency package in the amount of
US$260 million. The bulk of this plan (74%) concentrates on
rehabilitating and upgrading the region's basic social and economic
infrastructure (US$991 million). Key sectors in the development
plan include:    irrigation and drainage; water and wastewater; and
roads. Other components include social and economic development
projects, financial compensation for human and material losses, and
mine awareness and clearance activities. Most of the proposed
infrastructure projects (except for the irrigation projects) were
already integrated in the Government's Five Year Development Plan
prepared by the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) and
approved by the Council of Ministers on May 17, 2000.
Throughout the history of Lebanon and in situations where Government
agencies were inoperative (1975-1991), Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs) have represented a viable institutional alternative.
Similarly, NGOs have been called upon to deliver services during
periods of economic hardship (1996-2000) in specific areas where
Government capacity is weak. Since the end of the civil war (1991),
the proportion of Government funding to the overall NGO budget has
witnessed a steady decline. This has resulted in a considerable drop
in the number of beneficiaries as well as a deterioration in the
quality of service provision. Unfortunately, this is occurring at a
time when the provision of social services is very much needed.
Government's support to the NGO sector continued to be targeted to
welfare institutions that provide social services to the elderly,
handicapped, orphans, etc. During the past two years (1999 and
2000), the Government support to welfare institutions in Lebanon was
reflected through the disbursement of US$84 million equivalent.
However, Government funding to NGO-executed development projects
remains modest (less than 20% of total), and the Community
Development Project (CDP) would attempt to bridge this important gap
by providing funding to demand-driven community-based social and
human development initiatives.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the project is to raise living standards
in targeted poorer communities. This will be achieved by raising
economic activity levels in such communities through investing in
grass-roots social and small infrastructure and income enhancement
activities. The project will fund community-based small sub-projects
such as basic social and economic infrastructure (education, health,
rural water supply and sanitation, small irrigation and drainage
schemes); natural resources management; capacity building; basic
skills training; and micro-credit aimed at stimulating local incomes
and productivity. The project will also fund special programs that
target specific vulnerable groups, especially women, children and the
disabled.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank's support for the CDP, given the diversity of politics of
Lebanon, would help provide an element of neutrality, accountability
-2 -



and transparency in the CDP operations. The Bank, through its already
extensive experience with social and economic development funds, is
in a unique position to advise the Government on the advantages and
disadvantages of the project design. The Bank's experience in
establishing and organizing Social Funds worldwide, which included
capacity building to strengthen institutions, combined with the
sector integrated approach to development, would be of benefit in the
design of the CDP. The Bank technical and financial support for the
CDP, and subsequent project supervision of the operation, are seen by
the Government and potential foreign donors as essential elements in
promoting operational success and confidence in the integrity of the
CDP. Considerable donor funding could be secured provided an
appropriate institutional mechanism for the involvement of the NGO
sector is devised, which is what the Bank is seeking to establish
through the CDP.
4. Description
The project will be implemented over a period of five (5) years and
will consist of five main components as described and summarized in
the table below:
Component-A: Social Development (US$20.0 million)
Basic education, health and social services for the poor in areas
with high school drop-outs, low health indicators and gender
discrimination, in order to improve the access and reduce the cost
of such services to the poor. In addition, this component includes
the rehabilitation and upgrading of schools and health centers, the
creation of youth, cultural and sports centers, revolving textbook
projects, literacy and immunization campaigns and other social
services to the poor. Emphasis will also be given to the provision
of basic social services to facilitate the social reinsertion of
vulnerable groups, such as: the elderly, the disabled, women head
of households and children victims of violence, AIDS victims, drug
addicts, ex- detainees in south Lebanon, etc.
Component-B: Rural Infrastructure Improvement (US$4.0 million)
Provision of rural infrastructure and environmental protection
activities, such as: community potable water supply; wells and
spring protection; small wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal schemes using appropriate technologies; small irrigation
and drainage schemes; land reclamation, rehabilitation of land
terraces, and reforestation; and protection of natural resources and
cultural heritage sites.
Component-C: Income Enhancement (US$3.0 million)
Vocational training and micro-credit demonstration projects through
qualified and eligible NGOs. Activities would primarily target
women, youth and people with disabilities in order to provide them
with basic and specialized skills to improve their income
enhancement opportunities. It would also complement the Government's
programs to support NGOs in the delivery of specialized services.
Support to artisans and handicraft activities would be also
envisaged.
Component-D: Project Management, Technical Assistance and Capacity
- 3-



Building (US$3.0 million)
Project management consisting of a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), which would be recruited competitively to assist the CDR in
the implementation of the project. The PIU's services would include
primarily the day-to-day project administration, preparation of
procurement documents, evaluation of proposals and recommendation to
award contracts, financial management and reporting, subproject
monitoring and impact evaluation, and the preparation of progress
and completion reports. Technical assistance for studies and
capacity building to NGOs in order to improve the sector's
specialization and its effectiveness in service delivery.
Component-A: Social Development
Component-B: Rural Infrastructure Improvements
Component-C: Income Enhancement
Component-D: Project Management, Technical Assistance, and Capacity Building
5. Cost and Financing.
Total Project Cost is estimated at US$30.0 million equivalent. The project
financing would consist of a US$10.0 million equivalent GOL's contribution,
and a Bank loan of US$20.0 million equivalent.
6. Implementation
In view of the Government's budgetary constraints, the immediate
creation of an independent and autonomous institution solely for the
purpose of the project is not advisable, particularly when there is
an institution with project management experience, such as the CDR,
which could assume responsibility for the overall project management.
It should be noted that sector ministries have limited experience in
managing NGO-executed projects, and their project implementation
record is weak and lack the appropriate monitoring and evaluation
capacity. Considering the multi faceted nature of the project, the
CDR would, therefore, be in a better position to coordinate the
various activities with concerned sector ministries, local
governments, and NGOs.
Furthermore, the CDR's legal and financial statutes, and its inter-
sectoral outlook, would allow it to have more flexibility in dealing
with NGOs. It should be noted that the CDR has little experience in
community-based development projects implemented in cooperation with
NGOs. However, this deficiency would be overcome by recruiting a
Consultant (a management consulting firm and or an NGO) with relevant
experience in implementing similar projects, and with proven capacity
to handle all the procurement and financial management functions
typically required in such operation, to manage the PIU. The CDR
would serve primarily as the legal Government representative for
project implementation and compliance with the loan agreement
requirements, and would function as a clearing house for the
procurement and financial framework for the project with oversight
responsibility, but would delegate to the PIU the day-to-day
administration of the project and other functions to be described in
detail in the legal documents and the project Operations Manual.
To ensure broad CDP coverage of target populations and regions, the
-4 -



project would be implemented through Project Intermediaries (PIs).
These PIs would consist of qualified national and international NGOs
with strong community ties and proven execution capacity, which can
demonstrate a good understanding of the priority needs of the low-
income inhabitants of the target areas. The PIs would be selected
following Bank guidelines for the procurement of consultants using an
appropriate set of socio-economic, technical and financial criteria.
The PIs would help beneficiary communities and local NGOs identify
local needs on a priority basis, thus generating a demand-driven
pipeline of eligible subprojects. The PIs would also assist local
NGOs and communities in the preparation, coordination with concerned
ministries and other organizations, and implementation of subprojects
in a sustainable manner. The PIs would ensure that subproject design
and implementation is in compliance with the Bank's social and
environmental safeguards and the CDP Operations Manual. They would be
involved in all phases of the subproject cycle, such as: needs
assessment and prioritization, preparation and appraisal,
coordination with concerned ministries and other organizations, and
implementation and impact evaluation. PIs would play an important
role in generating and proposing demand-driven eligible subprojects
along well-defined criteria to be provided for in the CDP Operations
Manual.
Due to the nature of the Community Development Project, the
institutional set-up will have to remain simple and streamlined with
minimal budget implications on operations and maintenance. A modular
approach would be incorporated in order to maintain thematic and
geographic flexibility. The project would focus on themes and target
areas where implementation through NGOs would have a clear
comparative advantage. In sectors or regions where local NGOs do not
have the required experience or capacity, the support of national and
international NGOs would be solicited.
The project design would build on successful Government experiences
in implementing NGO-executed projects, and would consolidate the
future Government-NGO partnership by introducing participatory
planning to the operations of sector ministries in Lebanon. The CDP
would provide the appropriate tools for planning, monitoring and
evaluating NGO-executed development projects. This would reinforce
the contractual relationship between the Government and the NGOs by
introducing private sector management tools to NGO operations.
The CDP would promote sector specialization among local NGOs through
joint ventures with national and international NGOs, and would
introduce wider collaboration between the municipalities and the NGO
community to develop and strengthen local capacity in areas such as:
needs assessment and prioritization, environmental management,
health, education, training, cultural and recreational activities.
The CDP would provide a model for cost-effective, demand-driven
service delivery while eventually transferring skills, mechanisms and
lessons learned to line ministries. Local governments and community
groups would formulate project demands on a priority basis; whereas,
qualified international and national NGOs, in cooperation with local
or community based NGOs, would assume the responsibility of project
- 5 -



implementation and service delivery.
In Lebanon, NGOs are numerous, diverse and possess varying levels of
competency and capacity. As a result, establishing some basic
eligibility requirements for their participation in the CDP is
fundamental. Closer co-ordination among Government- and donor-funded
programs would have to be established to better manage and complement
scarce resources. The CDP would adopt an effective and results-
oriented management style, focusing primarily on remote rural areas
of Lebanon while maintaining a more gender approach.
This project represents the first major Bank intervention in the NGO
sector in Lebanon. Bank's assistance would aim at improving the
quality and coverage of essential services which, in turn, would help
alleviate poverty in the country. The Government's allocation to NGOs
and activities in Lebanon amounted to US$84 million equivalent during
1999 and 2000. Around 80t of that amount was spent as budget support
to welfare institutions in the country, while the rest was earmarked
for joint NGO-executed development projects. The CDP would supplement
Government funding to joint NGO projects in well-defined priority
sectors. Furthermore, the project would provide a critical mass of
funding to address basic needs of under-served regions of Lebanon
while adopting an integrated approach for project implementation.
Ministries involved would be limited to the ones that already have
established a track record of sound collaboration with NGOs.
Municipalities and local representatives of sector ministries would
act as partners to PIs for the CDP funded subprojects. In areas where
municipalities exist and are active, the CDP may intervene through
these governmental bodies. This approach of local ownership and
accountability would help ensure subproject sustainability.
PIs would be required to prepare Subproject Proposals (SPP) within
the community context, which should include a brief description of
the subproject objectives, the rationale and the expected impact, a
map of the overall geographic location and the subproject site. The
SPPs should also include design guidelines in order to help the PIs
to formulate their subprojects requests. The SPPs would be reviewed
by the PIU, which would carry out the desk and field appraisals in
order to confirm that proposed subprojects meet the following
eligibility criteria:
(a) Origin of Subproject Requests. Eligible partners with PIs would
include municipalities, local representatives of sector ministries,
and local NGOs. The SPPs should include the approvals of relevant
sector ministries, if required.
(b) Subproject Types and Socio-Economic Viability. The CDP would
finance subprojects that are technically, environmentally, socially,
and economically viable. Subprojects would have to demonstrate a
clear common public benefit while meeting the essential needs of the
targeted community. Pre-investment cost would be covered by the PIs
and would be considered as part of their contribution to the overall
project cost. The feasibility study to be carried out by the PIs
would examine standard technical, environmental, social, economical
- 6 -



and financial subproject requirements. The table below gives an
indicative list of subproject types that would be eligible for
financing under the CDP:
Note: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be able
to download the complete original version by going to:
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/
PIs would be required to demonstrate the technical, economic and
financial feasibility of the proposed subprojects. These would have
to be gender equitable and would target low-income and marginalized
social groups, in order to provide a social safety net that would
either increase income or reduce expenditures of the most vulnerable
families particularly those headed by women. Appropriate technical
standards for design, construction, and supervision of subprojects
would be used. Labor-intensive methods would be considered to
generate employment. The subproject design would seek least-cost and
environmentally sound solutions giving priority to appropriate and
low-cost operation and maintenance technology.
(c) Size of beneficiaries. PIs would be encouraged to
consider subprojects that would serve the largest possible
number of beneficiaries within the target community. The PIs
would have to carry out consultations, through regular
stakeholder assessments, to obtain commitment to investment
needs and maintenance requirements for the priority subprojects
proposals.
7. Sustainability
The participatory approach adopted throughout the subproject
cycle would be the fundamental mechanism to promote ownership
and help instill a maintenance culture among beneficiaries. The
early involvement of municipalities, local NGOs and beneficiary
groups during the selection and prioritization of subprojects
is important in order to promote ownership. The design of the
micro credit demonstration project with the participation of
concerned NGOs would also reduce any risks. It should be noted
that the lessons learned from this demonstration project would
be used by the Government and donors for the design of larger
programs for targeting the poorest of the poor. Also, a clear
distinction between recurrent and investment costs would be
maintained during subproject design, which would also include a
component for maintenance. The maintenance component would
include capacity building at the local level and establishing a
maintenance fund with up-front contributions of beneficiaries,
concerned municipalities and sector ministries, as required.
The maintenance fund would cover up to three years recurrent
expenditures, and would be replenished annually to ensure
maintaining sufficient funds all the time.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Both the USAID and the UNDP are implementing community
development programs in a number of specific areas of Lebanon.
The success of these programs is linked to factors such as: (i)
project implementation is carried out through experienced
-7 -



national and international NGOs, which act as intermediaries;
(ii) technical, administrative and financial management is
carried out in a streamlined manner, thus subject to minimum
Government bureaucracy; and (iii) the adoption of a cluster-
based approach where project beneficiaries and target areas are
pre-selected during project design.
The above elements of success are included in the design of the
CDP, which would open opportunities of coordinating with other
donors. Project Intermediaries (PIs) will be dealing with a
competitively selected, professional management team, which
will make up the PIU at the CDR. In turn, the PIU would
benefit from the CDR's autonomous legal stature by utilizing
its streamlined financial and procurement procedures. This
should ensure quick responsiveness to the procurement requests
submitted by PIs and timely disbursement of funds. As to the
pre-selection of beneficiaries and target areas during project
design, the CDP combines a demand-driven approach at the local
grass-roots level, while targeting project funds according to a
regional poverty map.
The Bank has an extensive worldwide experience with social and
economic development funds, which includes both success stories
and failures. This experience shows that for operations to be
successfully implemented, a number of factors need to be
present. These factors include: (i) a strong sense of
commitment at the highest levels of Government; (ii) a focused
menu of interventions; (iii) a strong management with
operational autonomy; (iv) a transparent and detailed decision-
making procedures, with regular financial and operational
audits; (v) a demand-driven and simple community based
subproject design to ensure local ownership; and (vi) an
outreach program that emphasizes bottom-up initiatives. These
operations also have important ancillary benefits. They
contribute to decentralization of service delivery, and to
bring NGOs into a more collaborative and coordinated
relationship with the state. They also provide models of
efficiency and effectiveness, which may be used by other public
sector agencies. The design of the CDP, which draws heavily on
experience with a large number of similar funds, incorporates
these factors.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation) Issues
No significant environmental issues are envisioned to be caused
by the CDP. However, the project would include the necessary
tools (EA Guidelines) under its Operations Manual to identify,
at the sub-project identification and planning stages, any
potential environmental issues and thus determine the EA
Category (B or C). The environmental implications of each
subproject would be reviewed in order to identify the potential
negative impacts, which would require changes in design to
avoid or minimize such impacts and to incorporate mitigatory
measures within the subproject design. The extent of the
- 8 -



environmental review would be minor for subprojects known to
cause minor or no measurable impacts. A general description of
applicable EA categories as defined in the World Bank's
Operational Policy (OP) 4.01, is given below for guidance:
Category-B: A proposed project is classified B if its
potential adverse environmental impacts on human populations or
environmentally important areas are less adverse than Category
A projects. These impacts are site-specific; few if any of them
are irreversible; and in most cases mitigatory measures can be
designed more readily than for Category A projects. The scope
of the Environmental Assessment (EA) for category B projects
may vary from project to project, but it is narrower than that
of a Category A EA. For some Category B sub-projects, a full EA
report may be necessary, but in many cases the EA process may
result only in an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), as
described in Annex B of OP4.01.
Category-C: A proposed project is classified C if it is likely
to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts.
11.      Contact Point:
Task Manager
Bassam Ramadan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2371
Fax:   (202) 477-0036
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:    (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 23, 2001.
-9-



