Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7064-LE
Loan Agreement
(Community Development  Project)
between
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 10, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7064-LE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 10, 2001, between LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Council for Development and 
Reconstruction (CDR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, 
the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) available to CDR on a grant basis, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CDR (the 
Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CDR" means the Borrower’s Council for Development and Reconstruction, a 
public authority established and operating pursuant to the Legislative Decree No. 5, 
dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated April 3, 2001, as the same may be amended 
from time to time;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) and (2); set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Operations Manual" means the Operations Manual including the annexes 
thereto, to be prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (d) of this 
Agreement, setting forth the procedures, eligibility, appraisal, targeting and 
allocation criteria and guidelines for identifying Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined), planning, monitoring and supervising their implementation, as well as 
applying the necessary environmental requirements and procedures described in the 
environmental guidelines for the environmental screening, design, implementation and 
monitoring of the mitigating measures of these Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), 
as such Manual may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(e)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CDR of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)
"Project Coordinator" means the CDR project officer, referred to in 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(g)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan which includes the detailed 
implementation and procurement arrangements for the Project, to be prepared in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(h)
"PI" or "PIs" means the Project Intermediaries which are the selected non 
governmental organizations to be in charge of designing and implementing a program of 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined), to be carried out under the Project pursuant to 
the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"PMT" means the Project Management Team to be established with 
professional staff of a non governmental organization or a consulting firm or a joint 
venture thereof, to be appointed by and operating within CDR, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(j)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(l)
"Subproject" means any activity to develop the physical or social 
infrastructure of communities or to render other services to these communities, to be 
financed under the Project and approved by CDR pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 
2 to the Project Agreement and in accordance with the procedures, terms and conditions 
set forth in the Operations Manual; 
(m)
"Subproject Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into between 
the CDR and PIs setting forth the tasks and responsibilities of the parties, including 
the stakeholders’ contributions, and commitments in connection thereto, to implement a 
program of Subprojects, as such agreement shall be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank, and such term includes all schedules to the Subproject 
Agreement;
(n)
"Subproject Grants" means a grant made or proposed to be made by CDR to 
PIs for the design, management and implementation of any Subproject that meets the 
Page  3
eligibility criteria pursuant to the Operations Manual and in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and the Project Agreement; and
(o)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CDR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CDR.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million United States dollars (US$20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) amounts paid (or if 
the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by CDR on account of withdrawals made for 
the benefit of a PI under a Subproject Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works or services required for such Subproject and in respect of which withdrawal from 
the Loan Account is requested; and (iii) in respect of interest and other charges in 
respect of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement 
and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by 
the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on November 15 and May 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
Page  4
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. CDR is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause CDR to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of CDR therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CDR to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to CDR on a 
grant basis under a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CDR, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods, works and services, plans and schedules, records 
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
CDR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04 The Borrower shall maintain or cause CDR to maintain the PMT within 
CDR, with members whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference shall be at 
all times acceptable to the Bank, to provide assistance to CDR and the PIs in carrying 
out their respective Project implementation functions in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operations Manual.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall require or cause CDR to require the PMT to: (i) 
ensure that Subprojects are appraised and implemented in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operations Manual; (ii) ensure that any land or right of way 
required for construction or civil works under the proposed Subprojects is acquired 
pursuant to the laws and regulations of the Borrower; (iii) ensure that the carrying 
out of the Subprojects shall not involve the involuntary resettlement of local 
population; (iv) ensure that the environmental screening of any Subproject shall be 
conducted in accordance with the Operations Manual and the preparation of any required 
environmental assessments shall be carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
Page  5
and (v) supervise the preparation of environmental assessments and ensure that 
environmental mitigating and monitoring measures of Subprojects are properly 
implemented.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CDR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CDR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Legislative Decree No. 5, dated January 31, 1977 and Law No. 295 dated 
April 3, 2001 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as 
to affect materially and adversely the ability of CDR to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CDR or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  6
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
The events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
CDR;
(b)
the PMT has been established with professional staff in adequate numbers 
and with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
the Borrower has prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnished to the Bank a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) satisfactory in 
form and in substance to the Bank; and
(d)
the Borrower has prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank, and furnished to the Bank the Operations Manual satisfactory in form and in 
substance to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by CDR, 
and is legally binding upon CDR in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and CDR and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CDR in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanese Republic
Facsimile:
961 1 642 762
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Fuad Siniori
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Joseph Saba
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Subproject Grants
90% 
under:
(a)
Part A (2)
 11,000,000
of the Project
(b)
Parts A (1) and B
  3,000,000
of the Project
(2)
Consultants’
  4,000,000
100%
services and training
(3)
Fee
    200,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(4)
Premia for Interest
0
Amount due under
Rate Caps and Interest
Section 2.09(c) of
Rate Collars
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   1,800,000
TOTAL
  20,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (1) (a) related to any Subproject, 
unless such Subproject Grant has been provided in accordance with the criteria, 
Page  8
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the 
Project Agreement and the provisions of the Operations Manual.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Subproject Grants under 
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (b) services under consultant 
firms contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each and under individual 
consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (c) training 
costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit 
account, in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  9
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to two million United States dollars (US$2,000,000) to be withdrawn from 
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to one million United 
States dollars (US$1,000,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of five million United States dollars (US$5,000,000).
2.
Withdrawals of  the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the said Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
Page  10
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of four million United States dollars (US$4,000,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish an effective and sustainable 
instrument to improve the living conditions and the economic status of disadvantaged 
communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Social and Infrastructure Development
Provision of Subproject Grants for:
(1)
carrying out social assessments and designing programs of Subprojects; and
(2)
the implementation of programs of Subprojects which consist of: (a) improving 
access to basic education, health and social services through the rehabilitation and 
service upgrading of schools, health, youth, cultural and recreation centers and 
facilities in poor areas; (b) carrying out programs for revolving school textbooks, 
literacy, and primary health care; (c) improving access to specialized social services 
to satisfy the needs of vulnerable groups at risk, including the disabled, children, 
youth, women and the elderly;
(d) developing basic rural infrastructure activities 
such as community potable water supply, small waste water disposal schemes, small 
irrigation and drainage schemes, small access and agricultural roads, land reclamation 
and rehabilitation of terraces; and (e) enhancing environmental protection activities 
such as reforestation and soil erosion control, wells and spring protection and 
preservation of natural resources and cultural heritage sites.
Part B:
Income Enhancement
Provision of Subproject Grants for capacity building activities to support: (1) 
micro and small entrepreneurs and non governmental organizations providing credit to 
target beneficiary groups; and (2) women, youth and disabled people in order to 
provide them with demand driven specialized skills to improve their income and enhance 
their business opportunities.
Part C:
Project Management Support
Provision of technical advisory services and training for Project management and 
for support to CDR and the PIs to ensure the effective carrying out of the Project and 
the supervision of its execution.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Page  11
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Date Payment Due
(Expressed as a %)
November 15, 2001
0.00%
May 15, 2002
0.00%
November 15, 2002
0.00%
May 15, 2003
0.00%
November 15, 2003
0.00%
May 15, 2004
0.00%
November 15, 2004
0.00%
May 15, 2005
0.00%
November 15, 2005
0.00%
May 15, 2006
0.00%
November 15, 2006
0.00%
May 15, 2007
0.00%
November 15, 2007
0.00%
May 15, 2008
     10.00%
November 15, 2008
     10.00%
May 15, 2009
0.00%
November 15, 2009
0.00%
May 15, 2010
     10.00%
November 15, 2010
     10.00%
May 15, 2011
     10.00%
November 15, 2011
9.00%
May 15, 2012
9.00%
November 15, 2012
8.00%
May 15, 2013
6.00%
November 15, 2013
5.00%
May 15, 2014
5.00%
Installment Share
Date Payment Due
(Expressed as a %)
November 15, 2014
4.00%
May 15, 2015
4.00%
TOTAL
 100%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
Page  12
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
