                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR0000878




                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IBRD-70640)

                                           ON

                                         A LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                         TO THE

                                    LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                          FOR A

                            COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                      August 29, 2008




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective: June 30, 2008)

                         Currency Unit = LBP
                       1.00 LBP = US$ 0.00066
                        US$ 1.00 = LBP 1,500]

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 to December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CDP    Community Development Project
CDR    Council for Development and Reconstruction
CSO    Civil Society Organization
EA     Environmental Assessment
EC     European Commission
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
FMS    Financial Management System
GoL    Government of Lebanon
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISN    Interim Strategy Note
LBP    Lebanese Pounds
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MoSA   Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
OM     Operations Manual
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PC     Poverty Cluster
PDO    Project Development Objective
PFTI   Post-Conflict Fast-Track Interventions
PI     Project Intermediary
PMR    Project Management Report
PMT    Project Management Team
RPA    Regional Poverty Area
SFTP   Small Fast-Track Project
UNDP   United Nations Development Program


                     Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                   Country Director: Hedi Larbi
                    Sector Manager: Roberta Gatti
               Project Team Leader: Eileen Murray
                  ICR Team Leader: Stefano Mocci

                                                      LEBANON
                                 Community Development Project


                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...................................................1
 2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ..................................................4
 3.      Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................9
 4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................12
 5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .........................................................13
 6.      Lessons Learned ...........................................................................................................15
 7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..............15
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................................16
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..............................................................................................17
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..............................................................................24
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .........................25
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................................27
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...............................................................31
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................................32
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................................35
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................................................................36
 Annex 10. Overall Rating of Project Outcome ­ The Weighting Process. ...............................37
 _Toc205613797

  MAP
                                                                .

A. Basic Information

                                                                      LB - Community
Country:                Lebanon                Project Name:
                                                                      Development Project
Project ID:             P071113                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-70640
ICR Date:               08/29/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      LEBANON
Original Total
                        USD 20.0M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 20.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Council for development and Reconstruction
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/01/2001     Effectiveness:       12/20/2002         12/20/2002
                                                                              06/06/2005
Appraisal:             04/23/2001     Restructuring(s):                       02/27/2007
                                                                              02/28/2007
Approval:              06/26/2001     Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:             12/31/2006         02/29/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   High
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately                                    Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing           Moderately
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Unsatisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators         (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          Yes                                      Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             18                  18
General education sector                                       5                   5
Health                                                         5                   5
Other social services                                         72                  72


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                      Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary           Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                         Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Hedi Larbi                      Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:           Roberta V. Gatti                David J. Steel
Project Team Leader:      Eileen Murray                   Bassam Ramadan
ICR Team Leader:          Stefano Mocci
ICR Primary Author:       Paul Geli



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the Community Development Project (CDP) is to establish
an effective and sustainable instrument to improve the living conditions and the economic
status of disadvantaged communities. This will be achieved by a four-pronged approach



                                            ii

to: (i) improve access to basic social and economic infrastructure by funding small well-
targeted community-based initiatives to improve the quality and accessibility of the poor
to education, health, and physical environment services; (ii) improve the economic status
of poor and more vulnerable households by stimulating local incomes and productivity
and reducing exposure to risk, through basic skills training, and capacity building to
supplement micro-credit initiatives; (iii) develop special social programs that target the
needs of specific vulnerable groups, especially women, children and the disabled; and
(iv) document the experience obtained through this Project and derive the lessons learned
in consultation with ministries that are engaged in the development of a longer-term
strategy to reduce social and regional imbalances in human development.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The revised objective of the project is to improve the living conditions and economic
status of disadvantaged communities.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                             documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Improve the living conditions and economic status of disadvantaged
                communities.
                                                            Most sub-
                                                            projects to
                                                            increase        Most sub-projects
                                                            productivity    to increase
                                                            had excellent productivity had
                                                            impact and      excellent impact
                                                            increased       and increased
Value           Rapid Social Assessment                     income; well income; well
quantitative or provides poverty data by                    targeted, well targeted, well
Qualitative)    region                                      focused         focused training
                                                            training sub- sub-projects by
                                                            projects by     experienced NGOs
                                                            experienced     show positive
                                                            NGOs show       results on job
                                                            positive resultscreation.
                                                            on job
                                                            creation.
Date achieved 12/20/2002                                    02/28/2007      02/29/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                               iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised         Completion or
                                              documents)      Target Values        Target Years

Indicator 1 :  At least 90 percent of funds for RPA programs have been channeled to the 70
               poverty clusters identified through the RSA.
Value
(quantitative  NA.                                            90 Percent        97 Percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/20/2002                                      02/28/2007        02/29/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  At least 80 percent of target primary schools are implementing inclusion
               programs for disabled.
Value
(quantitative  N/A; Restructured                              80 Percent        100 Percent
or Qualitative)indicator.

Date achieved 12/20/2002                                      02/28/2007        02/29/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :  At least 80 percent of target youth confirm that life skills training had a positive
               effect on their daily lives (employment life skills, medical services).
Value
(quantitative  N/A; Restructured                              80 Percent        93 percent
or Qualitative)indicator.

Date achieved 12/20/2002                                      02/28/2007        02/22/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Output indicator: No. of RPA sub-projects completed
Value
(quantitative  N/A; restructured                              110 sub-          119 sub-projects
or Qualitative)indicator                                      projects

Date achieved 12/20/2002                                      02/28/2007        02/29/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Output indicator: No. of post conflict fast track initiatives completed.
Value
(quantitative  N/A; restructured                              70 sub-           72 sub-projects
or Qualitative)indicator                                      projects

Date achieved 12/20/2002                                      02/28/2007        02/29/2008
Comments
(incl. %



                                                iv

achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Output indicator: No. of small scale fast track initiatives completed
Value
(quantitative  N/A; restructured                             130 sub-        127 sub-projects
or Qualitative)indicator                                     projects

Date achieved 12/20/2002                                     02/28/2007      02/29/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :  Output indicator: pace of completion of disability program
Value
(quantitative  N/A; restructured                             100 percent     100 percent

or Qualitative)indicator                                     completed       completed

Date achieved 12/20/2002                                     02/28/2007      02/29/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     07/26/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     01/08/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     05/16/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     11/13/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  5     04/17/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.20
  6     10/20/2003          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      0.74
  7     04/19/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.80
  8     06/15/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.40
  9     12/16/2004          Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      1.48
  10    04/27/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.51

  11    06/16/2005          Moderately                 Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      1.51

  12    11/16/2005        Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      1.65

  13    06/15/2006          Moderately                 Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                      2.92

  14    12/22/2006          Moderately
                          Unsatisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                  4.56

  15    04/16/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    7.24
  16    10/10/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    14.91
  17    02/29/2008    Moderately Satisfactory          Satisfactory                    19.39




                                              v

H. Restructuring (if any)

                             ISR Ratings at     Amount

 Restructuring       Board   Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
    Date(s)         Approved                Restructuring
                 PDO Change                                       Key Changes Made
                              DO       IP        in USD
                                                millions
                                                             (a) The PI concept did not work
                                                             and was replaced by a
                                                             mechanism funding different
                                                             sub-projects by many more

   06/06/2005           N     MS       MS            1.51    NGOs in each RPA; (b)
                                                             Introduction of a new initiative
                                                             consisting of small fast tract
                                                             sub-projects (SFTP); and (c)
                                                             simplification of procurement
                                                             arrangements.
   02/27/2007                 MS       MS            6.47
   02/28/2007           Y     MU       MS            6.47



If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                     Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                Moderately Satisfactory



I. Disbursement Profile




                                           vi

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1     Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Addressing regional inequity in the provision of basic infrastructure, while improving the access of the
poor to social services, had always been a key priority for successive Governments in Lebanon. The
Government was committed to a development strategy that focuses on the balanced and equitable
development of all the regions of Lebanon.            This commitment aimed at promoting a culture of
performance in the provision of social services through community participation in decision making and
NGO involvement in service delivery.

The steady decline in economic growth since the mid-1990s, coupled with external problems and other
distortions caused by the long war and occupation of the South, had led living conditions to deteriorate,
especially among lower income groups and in less advantaged places.             The four main social and
economic challenges were: (i) significant regional inequity in the access to basic infrastructure and social
services; (ii) sharp disparities in income levels; (iii) growing gaps between incomes and the cost of living
for lower income groups, particularly the costs of health and education; and (iv) fragmented safety net
that leaves many vulnerable and marginalized groups insufficiently protected, particularly in view of the
lack of protection against risk.

Almost a third of households lived below the threshold of basic needs satisfaction as measured across a
range of indicators. In Lebanon, while poverty could be found throughout the country, it was very
unevenly distributed geographically. About half of the poverty in the country could be attributed to two
large clusters, one in the north (Akkar-Tripoli-Miniye) and one in greater Beirut. Other smaller clusters
accounted for the other half of the poverty in the country and were located in coastal city centers, in
mountainous areas, in the deprived areas of the northern Beka'a valley and so on.              There were
disproportionately high numbers of illiterate women compared with men, women's health status appeared
less favorable compared with men, and women had more difficulty to have access to income earning
opportunities.

The CDP would address the issues of: (i) regional inequity in the provision of basic infrastructure
through improving the access of the poor to social services and basic infrastructure; and (ii) disparities in
income levels through support to the promotion of self-employment opportunities. This was to be
accomplished through a participative, community-driven approach involving the NGO sector in
coordination with beneficiary communities, local government, local private organizations and concerned
sector ministries. It was thought that implementing the CDP through locally-based NGOs would make
important contributions to the project in terms of innovation, social inclusion, participation, project
design, sustainability and efficiency.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objective of the Community Development Project (CDP) was to establish an effective
and sustainable instrument to improve the living conditions and the economic status of disadvantaged
communities. This was to be achieved by a four-pronged approach to: (i) improve access to basic social
and economic infrastructure by funding small well-targeted community-based initiatives to improve the
quality and accessibility of the poor to education, health, and physical environment services; (ii) improve
the economic status of poor and more vulnerable households by stimulating local incomes and



                                                        1

productivity and reducing exposure to risk, through basic skills training, and capacity building to
supplement micro-credit initiatives; (iii) develop special social programs that target the needs of specific
vulnerable groups, especially women, children and the disabled; and (iv) document the experience
obtained through this Project and derive the lessons learned in consultation with ministries that are
engaged in the development of a longer-term strategy to reduce social and regional imbalances in human
development.

Progress towards this objective would be measured and monitored based on:              (i) evolution in the
diversity, quantity, quality and cost of services accessed or accessible by less advantaged communities;
(ii) the number, distribution and socio-economic profile of beneficiaries; (iii) the number and distribution
of local communities in targeted areas with implemented CDP subprojects; and (iv) the documentation
and communication at the national level of achievements and lessons learned and the effectiveness of the
instrument, including selected poverty and human development indicators.

1.3      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification)

The PDO was revised as part of a formal restructuring in early 2007, with the Board's no objection on
February 28, 2007. The revised objective of the project was to improve the living conditions and
economic status of disadvantaged communities. This was to be achieved by basically the same four-
pronged approach mentioned in Section 1.2 above.

The reason for the change was that there were considerable delays in project implementation. The
February 2007 restructuring revised the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) to limit them to
"improving the living conditions and economic status of disadvantaged communities", because the
institutional dimension in the original PDO, which called for the establishment of an effective and
sustainable instrument to improve the living conditions and economic status of disadvantaged groups,
was not likely to be achieved before the end of the Project. The output and outcome targets were also
revised to ensure consistency with the revised PDOs, and to take into account the shortened
implementation period of about two and a half years, as project activities began on the ground only in
early 2006. Among the intermediate outcome indicators, the targeting of interventions to beneficiaries in
the pre-identified poverty clusters was to be monitored.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured
in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

According to the PAD, the Project beneficiaries would be, in principle, inclusive of all needy, deprived or
vulnerable communities. The Project would channel a critical mass of funding and efforts to areas with
the highest concentration of needs or eligible beneficiary groups. Priority cluster areas had already been
identified as a result of the poverty mapping exercise conducted by the Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA)
with the help of the UNDP since 1995. These would be further defined by Project Intermediaries (PIs) in
the course of the social assessment to be undertaken during the initial phase of cluster area program
implementation. In general, geographical targeting would focus on two types of areas: (i) depressed and
peripheral rural areas, which have suffered major dislocation and stagnation; and (ii) deprived
concentration in major urban agglomerations.

1.5      Original Components (as approved)

The CDP consisted of three parts or components:



                                                     2

Part A: Social and Infrastructure Development (US$22.50 million)

Provision of subproject grants for:

(1) Carrying out social assessments and designing programs of subprojects; and (2) the implementation of
programs of subprojects which consists of: (i) improving access to basic education, health and social
services through the rehabilitation and service upgrading of schools, health, youth, cultural and recreation
centers and facilities in poor areas; (ii) carrying out programs for revolving school textbooks, literacy, and
primary health care; (iii) improving access to specialized social services to satisfy the needs of vulnerable
groups at risk including the disabled, children, youth, women and the elderly; (iv) developing basic rural
infrastructure activities such as community potable water, small waste water disposal schemes, small
irrigation and drainage schemes, small access and agricultural roads, land reclamation and rehabilitation
of terraces; and (v) enhancing environmental protection initiatives such as reforestation and soil erosion
control, wells and spring protection and preservation of natural resources and cultural heritage sites.

Part B: Income Enhancement (US$3.00 million)

Provision of subproject grants for capacity building activities to support:

(1)      Micro and small entrepreneurs and non-governmental organizations providing credit to target
         beneficiary groups; and

(2)      Women, youth and disabled people in order to provide them with demand driven specialized
         skills to improve their income and enhance their business opportunities.

Part C: Project Management Support (US$4.50 million)

Provision of technical advisory services and training for project management and for support to CDR and
the PIs to ensure the effective carrying out of the Project and the supervision of its execution.

1.6      Revised Components

The only formal revision of "components" was done with the February 2007 formal restructuring, which
eliminated a non-performing component, the Income Enhancement component, which never got started as
the CDR did not have the technical expertise to get involved in micro-finance activities.

1.7      Other significant changes
(In design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

There were quite a number of other significant changes related to design and implementation
arrangements:

  (a)    In accordance with the original implementation arrangements, the Council for Development and
         Reconstruction (CDR) recruited an external consulting firm to act as the Project Management
         Team (PMT). The purpose of the PMT was to enhance CDR's administrative and technical
         capacity to execute the project, including the procurement process under delegation from CDR
         management. The PMT was also seen as a buffer to ameliorate political interference with the
         project. The performance of the firm was unsatisfactory, and its contract was terminated. CDR
         staffed the PMT internally, in part by employing the competent Lebanese staff of the external
         consulting firm.




                                                        3

  (b)    In order to ease CDR's contract administration burden, the Project was to be implemented
         through about 10 Project Intermediaries (PIs) which would act as wholesalers and supervise the
         work of local NGOs and civil society organizations (CSOs) which would carry out sub-projects.
         The project envisaged that the selected PIs would coordinate implementation with stakeholders at
         the local level, i.e., CBOs, municipalities, sector ministries, etc., thus there would be a role for
         all. However, the PI concept had to be abandoned, mainly because major NGOs and other
         potential PIs were more interested in executing their own programs than in supervising the
         implementation of sub-projects by CSOs.

  (c)    The addition of Small Fast-Track Sub-Projects (SFTP), with simplified procurement procedures
         for civil society organizations, a funding ceiling of US$30,000 and a requirement that the
         beneficiary contribution be at least 20% of the sub-project budget.

  (d)    The addition of Post-Conflict Fast-Track Interventions (PFTI) to address compelling post-conflict
         needs resulting from the July-August 2006 hostilities, with a funding ceiling of US$50,000 and a
         requirement that the beneficiary contribution be at least 10% of the sub-project budget.

  (e)   The closing date was extended twice: first to 2/28/2007 and then to 2/29/2008.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The Community development project (CDP) was the third attempt made by the Bank to work with the
Government, civil society and NGOs on a community-driven development project. Although quite a lot
of time and resources had been spent on the previous two attempts, the operations did not materialize
because of the complexity and sensitivities of the political and religious environment in Lebanon.

The new Project drew on the Bank's experience worldwide in reducing poverty through community-
driven development. It also tried to build on lessons learned in Lebanon through various donor-supported
social programs and through the unique role that the NGO sector and communities have played during the
war and the reconstruction period. Both the USAID and the UNDP had successfully implemented
community development programs in a number of areas of Lebanon. It was felt that there was a window
of opportunity for a national project that would demonstrate the feasibility and advantages of working
with NGOs and that would target beneficiaries based on poverty criteria, rather than on the basis of
regional origins or religious affiliations. The design of the project was informed by a very intense
consultative process. The Government was committed to a CDD approach, and the Bank team was
willing to be innovative and to take risks.

When the project was appraised and negotiated, the creation of an autonomous social fund was not an
option, and the decision was made to rely on the Council for Development and Reconstruction (CDR) as
implementing agency. Since CDR had limited experience in managing CDD programs, the
implementation arrangements included two main features: (1) a Project Management Team (PMT) within
CDR; and (2) the use of Project Intermediaries (PIs).

  (1)   CDR (which was the implementing agency responsible for project execution) had limited
        experience in managing community-driven social development programs implemented through
        NGOs, and its capacity for project management in reconstruction activities was already
        overstretched. A Project Management Team (PMT) was to be established within the CDR to
        manage the implementation of the CDP. This PMT could be a consulting firm or an NGO with



                                                      4

        experience in the management of community development programs. The PMT model was
        proposed to ensure that the project get enough attention by a dedicated professional management
        team, given the experience of slow execution of other Bank projects by CDR. Moreover, CDR
        was familiar with such a model as many other development partners such as the EC had hired
        PMT firms to implement their projects within CDR. To coordinate and facilitate the functions of
        the PMT within CDR, the CDR appointed a full-time Project Coordinator (CDR-PC) reporting
        directly to the President of the CDR. The CDR would also strengthen its capacity to complement
        the functions of the PMT in the areas of procurement, finance and social development.

  (2)   The CDP would be implemented through Project Intermediaries (PIs) selected through a
        competitive bidding process, which would be NGOs (national and international) with experience
        and resources to manage large and complex programs in a specific geographical region. The
        choice of PIs was made to reduce the management transaction cost on the part of CDR, i.e.,
        instead of signing hundreds of sub-project grant agreements, CDR would sign a maximum of 10-
        15 contracts with PIs over the life of the project. One PI per region would demonstrate a multi-
        sectoral, integrated regional development approach to poverty alleviation, which conceptually
        should work in a country as small as Lebanon. Lebanon was divided into ten regional poverty
        areas (RPAs). PIs would be responsible for conducting social assessments, designing demand-
        driven priority-needs sub-project programs based on the assessments and carrying out the
        implementation of the subproject programs approved by CDR. They would also supervise,
        monitor and evaluate the implementation of the eligible sub-projects and furnish to CDR through
        the PMT progress and financial reports.

These arrangements did not work for the following reasons:

  (1)   Regarding the PMT, despite the fact that CDR was familiar with the PMT concept as similar
        arrangements were ongoing with other donors, the integration of an external consulting firm
        within CDR proved difficult. The external consultants selected to manage the PMT performed
        very poorly; CDR terminated their contract in October 2003 and took over project management
        responsibilities directly.

  (2)   Regarding the PIs, the arrangement failed to consider the diverse nature of Lebanese NGOs and
         their particular religious/political/sectoral/regional/affiliations. One PI per region did not work
         simply because no single NGO represented the above diversity in any region. Moreover, NGOs
         were more interested in implementing their own sub-projects rather than managing/overseeing
         the implementation of sub-projects by other smaller grassroots civil society organizations
         (CSOs). This resulted in several potential PIs withdrawing from the selection process.

In the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the overall risk was rated as substantial. On risk identification,
the PAD did not list the possible failure of using the PMT/PI models, so no mitigation measure was
identified. However, risk mitigation measures were identified to ensure that the capacity of PIs would be
strengthened. Regarding the critical assumption that CDR procedures do not cause delays in the day-to-
day project management by the PMT, the mitigation measures were that the CDR Board had appointed a
Project Coordinator and had issued an instruction to all Department Directors to cooperate in expediting
the CDP implementation. These measures turned out to be insufficient: the Project suffered long delays
(and the NGOs/CSOs had to wait a long time to be paid) because of CDR procedures.

The project was complex. Implementation arrangements were very detailed and comprehensive. The
process was to start with social assessments for the regional poverty areas (RPAs) and included
geographical targeting at the levels of the RPA and poverty clusters (PC), thematic or special needs
targeting, as well as community action plans (CAP).



                                                        5

2.2      Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

From the beginning, the Project suffered from the slow parliamentary ratification process (more than 18
months), which was responsible for the considerable delay in Loan effectiveness. This systemic issue
affected the whole Lebanon portfolio. The effectiveness date was extended three times; the Project was
finally declared effective on December 20, 2002 and the official launch of the CDP took place on
February 7, 2003.

Project implementation was hampered by implementation problems, institutional bottlenecks, political
instability and the external turmoil. The reasons for slow implementation are well-documented and
include:

  (a)    The very poor performance of the PMT international contractor regarding installation of an
         accounting system, finalization of the project financial manual, M&E, MIS, etc. The contract was
         finally canceled, and CDR had to recruit staff to do the job.

  (b)    CDR's lack of experience in managing community-driven development activities.              CDR's
         traditional mandate has always been large infrastructure projects across all sectors, rather than
         poverty alleviation projects such as the CDP. CDR's lengthy internal procurement and financial
         flows, and bureaucratic hurdles (e.g., numerous steps and signatures required to make a payment
         to a CSO) made it very cumbersome to implement programs and disburse funds to decentralized
         implementing structures.

  (c)    The lack of interest of potential project intermediaries (NGOs) in supervising the implementation
         of sub-projects implemented by other Civil Society Organizations (CSOs).              The project
         intermediary concept was abandoned and a new arrangement was introduced, whereby any
         eligible NGO could submit a subproject proposal and be awarded a grant if it fulfills the selection
         criteria outlined in the Operations Manual (OM). Social assessment would then be undertaken
         independently in each RPA by consultants contracted by CDR. The change meant that, instead of
         supervising ten or more large contracts, CDR ended up supervising more than 300 sub-projects
         and needed more staff (including field coordinators) and resources.

  (d)    The completion of the Social Assessment (SA) took longer than expected. This is because
         Lebanon lacks adequate statistics so that poverty clusters took more time to identify, with
         consequent delays in selecting target areas to begin project activities. The SA was finally
         completed in late 2005.

  (e)    Delays in finalizing the Operations Manual (OM) and drafting the simplified bidding documents
         for procurement at the community level.

  (f)    The internal and external turmoil since February 2005.

A Quality of Supervision Assessment in September 2004 rated the Project a "2", meaning "satisfactory".
At the time, the Bank Team was working closely with CDR to try to resolve the implementation
problems. However, it took a long time to reach agreement with CDR Management on corrective
measures. A first restructuring in June 2005 revised the implementation arrangements, and a second
restructuring in February 2007 revised the PDOs and, therefore, had to be approved by the Board
(2/28/2007).

The reason for the first restructuring of June 2005 and the key changes made were:




                                                       6

  (a)    The PI concept which did not work was replaced by a mechanism funding different sub-projects
         by many more NGOs in each Regional Poverty Area (RPA).
  (b)    Introduction of a new initiative consisting of small fast track sub-projects (SFTP).
  (c)    Simplification of procurement arrangements.

The most significant elements of the February 2007 restructuring were to:


  (a)    revise the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) to limit them to "improving the living
         conditions and economic status of disadvantaged communities " (the institutional dimension in
         the original PDO, which called for the establishment of an effective and sustainable instrument to
         improve the living conditions and economic status of disadvantaged groups was not likely to be
         achieved within the coming year due to continuing uncertainties);

  (b)    revise the output and outcome targets to ensure consistency with the revised PDOs, to take into
         account the shortened implementation timeframe of about two and a half years (as project
         activities began on the ground only in early 2006);

  (c)    eliminate the non-performing Income Enhancement component which never got started, as CDR
         did not have the technical expertise to get involved in micro-finance activities;

  (d)    address compelling post-conflict needs resulting from the July-August 2006 hostilities, by
         funding high impact and quick disbursing sub-projects in conflict-affected areas;

  (e)    simplify procurement arrangements for civil society organizations;

  (f)    reallocate loan proceeds; and

  (g)    extend the closing date by 12 months (through February 29, 2008) to allow for the completion of
         Project activities.

In the end, despite the delays, the actions taken by the Bank and CDR allowed the financing and carrying
out of 320 sub-projects, in addition to the three thematic programs. In this connection, it should be noted
that, with the support of a new President of CDR committed to the success of the project, the Project
Director and the individual members of the PMT worked very hard and were able to overcome the
rigidities and bureaucratic procedures of the CDR as an institution.

There are two lessons learned from this experience:

  (1)    Timely restructuring is essential to deal with design and implementation problems and to ensure
         satisfactory project implementation.

  (2)    Despite shortcomings of the implementing agency, a project can still be implemented reasonably
         satisfactorily if the individual members of the project management team are strongly committed
         and dedicated to the successful implementation of the project.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) included a lengthy presentation of M&E activities at the
community, regional and national levels. The M&E arrangements agreed upon at appraisal/ negotiations
were standard for a project of this type at the time. In the original project design, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) was the responsibility of the Project Intermediaries (PIs). CDR should have
taken over that responsibility when the PI concept was abandoned. However, because at that time
the main concern was to get project activities underway, not much was done in terms of M&E
implementation until early 2007. After repeated requests from the Bank, the CDR recruited Consultation


                                                       7

Research Institute (a consulting firm which had conducted the rapid social assessment) to develop and
undertake the monitoring and evaluation plan (M&E) of the CDP. While the "monitoring" side is
satisfactory, the "evaluation" part is unsatisfactory. Generally, for all CDD projects where the type of
sub-projects is not known in advance, it is very hard to get relevant baseline data. A lesson
learned is that it is important to have a project development objective that can be easily measured
and monitored, and to design a system that will show trends in selected indicators.

The firm delivered three monitoring reports (April, June and October 2007) and a final M&E report in
February 2008. The final report provides an overview of the outputs of the CDP and the major lessons
that can be learned from the CDP. The methodology for the evaluation was sound, but its application
faced three major limitations or constraints: a very tight schedule, difficulties in assessing the impact of
sub-projects that had just been completed, and impediments in the field work because of logistics
problems or difficulties in reaching the beneficiaries. Consequently, the usefulness of the final evaluation
report is limited.

Outsourcing of the M&E function turned out to be a good decision but, as requested by the Bank, it
should have been done much earlier to ensure the availability of information necessary to assess project
performance. A lesson learned is that a M&E system must be established and functioning fully at an
early stage in the project cycle in order to provide meaningful information on the project output, outcome
and, if possible, impact.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environment:       During CDP appraisal and negotiations, the draft Environmental Assessment (EA)
Guidelines were reviewed and agreed upon with the CDR and were incorporated in the CDP's Operations
Manual (OM). CDR would ensure that the PMT screens the sub-projects when the PI programs are
reviewed and checks that PIs comply with the EA guidelines. Initiatives which are classified as EA
Category B will include in the preparation report either a full EA report or a simple Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) indicating the proposed mitigation measures to ensure compliance with the
Bank's safeguard policies. An ex-post review of 20 on-going sub-projects was carried out in 2007. The
main objectives of this ex-post review were to: (i) evaluate the CDP processes and procedures with
regards to environmental management; (ii) assess the PMT's technical capacity to properly manage the
environmental aspects; (iii) assess overall compliance with the Bank's environmental safeguards; and (iv)
identify remedial actions as necessary. The review concluded that, while environmental safeguards are
being considered by the PMT through an environmental checklist before approving any sub-project, the
PMT's environmental support is limited and hence minimal considerations are being given to
environmental aspects of sub-projects.       The review also identified a few critical issues (related in
particular to the disposal of solid and liquid wastes and water quality), which the Bank's team discussed
with the CDR/PMT for appropriate action.

Procurement: The project design called for the use of major national or international non-governmental
Project Intermediaries (PIs), to be recruited on a competitive basis after evaluation of their technical and
financial proposals. For the reasons mentioned earlier, no selection process could be completed and the
PI concept was abandoned. Procurement has been well managed by the Bank and the PMT and overall,
project procurement has been satisfactory. Two excellent procurement ex-post reviews of June 2006 and
March 2007 are positive, although CSOs complained about the lengthy evaluation process in selecting
CSO proposals and excessive delays in payments. There has been no misprocurement. Procurement
plans were revised as required, and actions were taken to simplify procurement when warranted. Parallel
to project restructurings and other changes, procurement arrangements were modified (increases in



                                                       8

thresholds and aggregate thresholds values, introducing national shopping for works, amending the prior
review procedures, etc.) to make them more consistent with the revised project activities.

Financial Management: At the beginning of the Project, the Financial Management (FM) arrangements
were inadequate to provide the timely and reliable information that was required to manage and monitor
the implementation of the Project. The situation improved with the recruitment of an experienced
financial officer fully dedicated to this project and the setting up of a Financial Management System, so
that the project was able to generate periodic financial reports on ongoing activities. There have been
considerable delays in payments to NGOs and CSOs: about 12 weeks on average (but in some cases up to
18 weeks) between the date of submission of the request for payment and the date the money is credited
into their bank account. The audit reports for the Project have been unqualified, but unfortunately CDR
has been almost always late in submitting the audit reports to the Bank.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

There is no follow-up community development project to this operation.

Bank supervision missions repeatedly discussed the sustainability of ongoing and completed sub-projects
to ensure that NGOs and other stakeholders are making arrangements for adequate operation and
maintenance of the sub-projects. Results are mixed. Sub-projects for increasing productivity (mainly
agricultural sub-projects) appear to be sustainable. Training sub-projects appear less likely to be
sustainable without additional financing.

There are some positive lessons learned that should be reflected in GoL's Social Strategy. For example,
the CDP put in place a new and more transparent process of contracting NGOs that should be transferred
to the Ministry of Social Affairs and applied to the Government (including CDR) and other donor funded
CDD projects.. The CDP promoted coordination between the PMT and the Departments of the MoSA in
charge of women, youth and disabled issues. This coordination needs to be developed further so that
MoSA can gradually take over the follow up on these programs.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The Project has remained very relevant to achieving country and Bank development objectives, as
reflected in the November 2005 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the July 2007 Interim Strategy
Note (ISN).

The objective of the November 2005 CAS is to help Lebanon build its public institutions to transition out
of its current macro-economic imbalances; to address the social and environmental implications of the
transition in an equitable fashion; and to lay the foundations for job creation and growth. The CAS
acknowledges that a successful transition requires a more efficient social program geared towards social
protection for the most vulnerable groups. One of the three pillars envisaged to help Lebanon in the
transition is developing human capital and mitigating the poverty effects of transition; this pillar would
support lending and advisory activities aimed at mitigating poverty and reinforcing the existing safety
nets through community or municipality-driven development programs (by focusing the delivery of
services through NGOs and municipalities). The ISN, which became necessary because the hostilities



                                                      9

with Israel in the summer of 2006 and the domestic political impasse had changed the underlying
economic and political context, also includes a pillar for developing human capital and mitigating the
poverty effects of transition.

The two project restructurings and the addition of the small fast-track sub-projects (SFTP) and the post-
conflict fast-track interventions (PFTI) were very positive factors. They strengthened the relevance of the
project's objectives and design by facilitating the transfer of resources to deprived rural and urban
communities, with the participation of local NGOs.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

Annex 2 provides a detailed description of outputs which have been substantial. The CDP did not achieve
the institutional dimension (namely, the establishment of an effective and sustainable instrument) of the
original Project Development Objective (PDO), but on the whole achieved most of the revised PDO.
Also, most of the revised indicators were either achieved or exceeded (See Results Framework Analysis).
A very important achievement is that, in line with the PDO, project interventions targeted disadvantaged
communities in the pre identified poverty clusters.

The monitoring and evaluation system, which was introduced only towards the end of the Project, does
not provide a full picture of the outcome/impact of the Project and does not document well its
achievements. However, as discussed in Annex 5, there are indications in the final evaluation report that
most sub-projects had a rather positive impact on the beneficiaries as witnessed by the project's physical
outputs. The training sub-projects (particularly technical and vocational courses), the sub-projects to
increase the income of targeted beneficiaries, the renovation and equipment of existing social
infrastructure and the health sub-projects contributed to improving the living conditions and economic
status of the targeted disadvantaged communities.

3.3     Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

According to the PAD, subprojects would be selected either on the basis of least-cost solutions (in
comparison with unit costs to be compiled by the PIs and the PMT, or on the basis of meeting the criteria
for targeting and for basic needs. The Project did not require cost recovery and the financial resources
have been transferred as grants from the Government to beneficiary communities, groups and
organizations through CDR. The sub-project selection criteria have been followed for the most part.

Since the benefits of most investments are not readily quantifiable, no attempt has been made to calculate
any economic or financial rates of return for the Project.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The CDP is the first and only project at the national level that addresses the needs of disadvantaged and
marginalized groups through community development interventions. In a fragile and volatile state such
as Lebanon, the CDP played a vital role in alleviating the suffering of the population after numerous
conflicts. These included the July 2006 conflict with Israel and the Nahr El-Bared Palestinian Refugee



                                                    10

Camp in 2007. The CDP proved to be a flexible and responsive tool used by the Government under
periods of duress. In that respect, and despite the high risk taken in venturing into this project, it has been
worthwhile, given the project's achievements and demonstration effects.

There have been considerable delays, but in the end the actions taken by the Bank and CDR allowed the
financing and carrying out of 320 sub-projects, in addition to the three thematic programs. The thematic
programs showed interesting results, such as: (i) for disability, the completion of a disability prevalence
study and a beginning of acceptance of "inclusion" in public schools; (ii) for youth, life skill training and
counseling sessions for the poorer and more vulnerable youth; and (iii) for gender, a focus on legal issue
affecting women's rights and on the role and image of women in the media. Also, this was the first
nation-wide project bringing Government, donor, NGOs and CBOs together to work on a project that
targets the poor. Finally, the Project strengthened the capacity of many NGOs and CBOs.

The project demonstrated that, despite the political and confessional constraints in Lebanon,
contracting of NGOs can be carried out in a transparent manner based on well defined eligibility
criteria. This is a major achievement of the project. Another positive aspect of the project is that
it generated some level of engagement from NGOs, working with Government to help
disadvantaged communities. The CDD experience is positive. The value added of the project in
terms of Government / NGO collaboration in a transparent and accountable way is a lesson
learned.

According to Appendix B of the ICR Guidelines, the outcome of a project whose objectives have been
formally revised must be assessed against both the original and the revised project objectives. The overall
outcome rating is arrived at by weighting the two ratings in proportion to loan disbursements before and
after the restructuring. Although the formal restructuring took place late in the project period (February
2007), only 32% of the loan had been disbursed at that time and the remaining 68% were disbursed in the
following 12 months, which gives a lot of weight to the rating for the post restructuring period. Annex 10
shows the details of that assessment with an overall rating of "moderately satisfactory".

In summary, the Project has remained very relevant to current country priorities and Bank assistance
strategy. Sub-projects have been selected on the basis of targeting and basic needs criteria or on the basis
of least cost solutions, an indication of value for money. The CDP achieved most of the revised project
development objective but, unfortunately, the Final Evaluation Report by the M&E consulting firm does
not make a strong case supporting the full impact of the project's achievements. In view of that
shortcoming, the overall outcome rating is "Moderately Satisfactory".

3.5       Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a)       Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Regarding poverty impacts, one intermediate indicator shows that 97 percent of funds for the regional
poverty areas (RPA) programs have been channeled to the 70 poverty clusters identified through the rapid
social assessment (RSA).

The action plan of the gender thematic program carried out under the Project focused on two main
themes: legal aspects, and the role and image of women in the media. The first theme is related to
women's legal issues such as inheritance, nationality, violence, etc. The objectives are to make women
aware of their rights under existing laws, to amend laws that need to be amended, and to introduce new
laws that would improve women's status in society, all within a framework of small and gradual changes.



                                                               11

The second priority is the media, with two objectives: to increase the role of women in the media (to
increase the number of women in decision-making positions and to increase their role in programming)
and to improve the image of Lebanese women in the media. The findings of the gender thematic program
have been disseminated through conferences and workshops and postings on websites, targeting policy
makers, parliamentarians, lawyers, etc.

The project promoted a fruitful cooperation between civil society, NGOs, CDR, Sector Ministries and
Municipalities. It was a new idea, a new approach, restoring a feeling of trust in Government and its
ability to spend the money well. The CDP generated an important demonstration effect among the NGO
community in Lebanon. CDP was implemented according to eligibility and selection criteria that ensured
targeting, cost-effectiveness, transparency, community participation, and allocation of resources based on
social assessments conducted professionally in the identified poverty clusters. These are important
achievements of CDP, which created a new culture of community development that did not exist before in
Lebanon.

 (b)      Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and
institutional development)

The Project fostered a better understanding of NGO roles and provided greater space for NGO activities
and NGO-Government collaboration within a proper framework of accountability. It was a new culture
for the NGOs themselves. The Project strengthened the capacity of NGOs/CSOs by motivating them to
upgrade their proposal writing, financial management and procurement skills. Although NGOs/CSOs
generally complained about CDR's procedures, many NGOs/CSOs acknowledged the importance of such
procedures since they allowed them to maintain a high level of accuracy and transparency, and trained
them to acquire better documentation and administrative skills.

(c)       Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Consultation and Research Institute (CRI), the consulting firm recruited by CDR to develop and
undertake the Monitoring and Evaluation plan of the CDP, carried out the evaluation of 53 sub-projects in
8 poverty clusters (PCs), out of a total of 320 sub-projects in 70 PCs. Although not a beneficiary survey
per se, the evaluation included certain elements of a beneficiary survey. The full description and results of
that evaluation are given in CRI's final M&E report dated February 2008, and are summarized in Annex 5
of the ICR.

4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

The CDP is the first nation-wide project that targeted the poor, and it promoted collaboration between
Government, NGOs and communities. CDP has been a building block towards the creation of an active
process of grass-root community development. A momentum has certainly been created, but it is going to
fade away unless there is a continuation of community-driven activities based on the Government's social
policy. The risk that development outcomes will not be maintained is high.




                                                              12

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1      Bank Performance

(a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Because of the political environment, the institutional framework was very difficult and CDP was not an
easy project to design or to implement. At the outset, the various risks were identified and debated
thoroughly by the country team and the project design reflects an attempt to chart the best course in a
difficult social and political context elements of which included: poor country implementation record;
post-conflict environment ridden with social and political complexities; lack of institutional capacity
within line ministries and inter-agency rivalries. It was not feasible for political reasons to create a new
autonomous agency, of the social fund type, with appropriate operational procedures. Therefore, the
Bank team decided to rely on CDR as implementing agency, and developed a PMT/PI model to facilitate
implementation by CDR and to promote a multi-sectoral integrated approach to poverty alleviation with
targeting, transparency, community participation, etc. This was an innovative approach but was not fully
successful. While one could argue that there were good reasons to adopt such a design as it tried to
address CDR's lack of expertise in implementing CDD projects, the fact remains that, as discussed in
Section 2.1 above, the PMT/PI model did not work and the project had to be restructured twice. Once
restructured, the Project was able to deliver very substantial outputs. In sum, the Bank performance in
ensuring quality at entry is rated "moderately unsatisfactory".

(b)      Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

A Quality of Supervision Assessment in September 2004 rated the CDP a "2", meaning "satisfactory",
because the Bank team was trying very hard to solve the implementation problems. For the whole project
period, the supervision by the Bank has been positive. Staff continuity has been strong, with most team
members located in the country office in Beirut. There was no mid-term review, but in effect the Project
has been constantly under close review by the Bank. As the following examples show, the Bank team has
been proactive to get the project moving on the ground and to deal with the problems and issues as they
arose.

The Bank team:

  (a)    Agreed that the CDR should terminate the contract for the PMT with the external consulting firm
         and take over project management responsibilities internally.
  (b)    Developed a proposal for small fast track sub-projects ­ SFTP (with simplified procurement
         procedures for CSOs and a funding ceiling of US$30,000) to start project implementation and
         establish the credibility of the Project with NGOs/CSOs.
  (c)    Developed a proposal to deal with the absence of PIs and work directly with NGOs/ CSOs.
  (d)    Added to the sub-project menu post-conflict fast track interventions ­ PFTI (with simplified
         procurement procedures for CSOs and a funding ceiling of US$50,000) to address compelling
         post-conflict needs resulting from the July-August 2006 hostilities.
  (e)    Responded favorably and very expeditiously to a Government request to increase to 100% the
         percentage of expenditures to be financed for a period of 12 months (this applied also to 5 other
         Bank projects) because of the difficult budgetary situation after the July/August 2006 war.




                                                        13

  (f)    Revised the PDO and output and outcome indicators.

  (g)    Eliminated a non-performing component.
  (h)    Revised the Operation Manual (OM) to simplify procurement arrangements for CSOs.
  (i)    Relentlessly requested the CDR to implement the M&E function (with limited success, because
         the M&E function was finally outsourced in early 2007, quite late in the project cycle).

It would have been better if some of the Bank actions had been taken earlier in the project cycle, but it
took time to convince CDR's management of the need for changes. Suspending disbursements was
seriously considered despite the relevance of the project and its poverty focus. The Bank supervised the
fiduciary and safeguard aspects properly. Bank reports on project progress (or lack thereof) have been
quite candid and of good quality; however, project performance ratings have generally been
overoptimistic. During the whole project period, the Bank tried to keep a proper focus on development
impact. Since there were moderate shortcomings in the proactive identification of opportunities and
resolution of problems, the quality of supervision by the Bank is rated "moderately satisfactory".

(c)      Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The rating for quality at entry is "moderately unsatisfactory" and the rating for quality of supervision is
"moderately satisfactory". Since the outcome rating (moderately satisfactory) is in the satisfactory range,
the overall Bank performance is rated "Moderately Satisfactory".

5.2      Borrower Performance

(a)      Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Government recognized the limited capacity and resource constraints of sector ministries in
addressing the social needs of disadvantaged communities. The Government has generally been
supportive of the Project, since it understood the value of creating an alternative mechanism for delivering
social programs, vis a vis the traditional role of Social Affairs in delivering social programs targeted to
orphans, handicapped people, etc. However, the Government must bear its share of responsibility for the
shortcomings in project design, mainly regarding the choice of CDR as implementing agency. The
problem is explained in part by the complexity of the political environment in Lebanon, characterized by
a confessional system of governance and the resulting diffusion of political authority and decision
making. Nevertheless, considering the problem with the project design, the Government performance is
rated "Moderately Unsatisfactory".

(b)      Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
CDR has a major share (equal to that of the Bank) of responsibility for the shortcomings in the project
design. As implementing agency for the Project, CDR had legal, financial and procurement oversight
functions, in addition to managing the loan proceeds. The CDR had limited experience in working with
NGOs and implementing social development programs or managing community driven development
activities. To coordinate the work of the PMT within the CDR, a Project Coordinator (later upgraded to
Project Director) reporting directly to the CDR President was appointed at the time of negotiations. Also,
the CDR President issued instructions to all CDR Departments to provide all necessary support and
cooperation to expedite the implementation of the CDP. Despite these measures, project implementation



                                                     14

suffered from the bureaucratic procedures and cumbersome internal workings of CDR, as exemplified by
the tremendous delays for paying the NGOs and CSOs. The fact that the Project managed to finance and
carry out 320 sub-projects plus three thematic programs despite the very difficult country context is due to
the commitment, dedication and hard work of the Project Director and individual members of the PMT.
Since there were significant shortcomings in CDR performance, it is rated "Moderately Unsatisfactory".

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Since both the government performance and the implementing agency performance are rated "Moderately
Unsatisfactory", the overall Borrower performance is also rated "Moderately Unsatisfactory".

6.      Lessons Learned

(both project-specific and of wide general application)

  (1)   The CDP was started as a separate, individual initiative. This type of project, however, should fit
        and be implemented within the context of an overall poverty alleviation strategy of the
        Government, and it should include an exit strategy in order to address the sustainability issue.
  (2)   In a CDD project, it is important to have a project development objective that can be
        easily measured and monitored, and to design a system that will show trends in selected
        indicators.
  (3)   Despite the political constraints that may exist, in a CDD project the contracting of NGOs
        can be carried out in a transparent manner based on well defined eligibility criteria.
  (4)   Timely restructuring is essential to deal with design and implementation problems and to ensure
        satisfactory project implementation.
  (5)   Despite shortcomings of the implementing agency, a project can still be implemented reasonably
        satisfactorily if the individual members of the project management team are strongly committed
        and dedicated to the successful implementation of the project.
  (6)   A M&E system must be established and functioning fully at an early stage in the project cycle in
        order to provide meaningful information on the project output, outcome and, if possible, impact.
  (7)   Working directly with and through local NGOs/CSOs increases the chances of success of the sub-
        projects as local NGOs/CSOs are familiar with the realities on the ground.
  (8)   The implementing agency should recruit as field coordinators only those persons that actually
        reside in the area or region, as frequent field coordinator visits played a constructive role in the
        successful implementation of sub-projects.
  (9)   Stakeholder ownership is critical for the success of community sub-projects, and the concept of
        "beneficiary" should include the community as a whole.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies
(b)     Cofinanciers
(c)     Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                    15

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)       Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest
             Components                                                                                   Percentage of
                                                    (USD millions)            Estimate (USD
                                                                                  millions)1                 Appraisal


Social and Infrastructure
Development                                                 18.75                      17.90                    95 %

Income Enhancement                                           2.50                       0.00                    0 %

Project Management Support                                   3.75                       3.60                    96 %
                    Total Baseline Cost                     25.00                      21.50                    86 %

Physical Contingencies                                       2.50                       0.00                    0 %

Price Contingencies                                          2.50                       0.00                    0 %
                    Total Project Costs                     30.00                      21.50                    72 %
Front-end fee PPF                                            0.00                       0.00                      -

Front-end fee IBRD                                           0.00                       0.20                      -

           Total Financing Required                         30.00                      21.70                    72 %


(b)       Financing


                                                                           Appraisal       Actual/Latest
              Source of Funds                             Type of                                             Percentage of
                                                       Cofinancing          Estimate          Estimate
                                                                        (USD millions)(USD                      Appraisal
                                                                                                  millions)

Borrower                                                                      5.00               2.30               46 %

Local Communities                                                             5.00         Not available              -

International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                                               20.00              20.00            100 %




1   Figures for the actual / latest cost estimate are the figures that CDR gave to the ICR mission in February 2008. They do not
    include the contributions by local communities, which may explain why they are different from the figures included in the
    last ISR dated February 29, 2008.



                                                                 16

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Consultation and Research Institute (CRI), a consulting firm recruited by CDR, developed and undertook
the M&E plan of the CDP. CRI put in place an MIS to monitor the implementation of project activities
(e.g., timing of contract signature, first payment, second payment, etc.) with links to a summary output
table. This annex on outputs by component is based on CRI's final M&E report dated February 2008 and
focuses on the following four aspects: (i) the rapid social assessment; (ii) the implementation of RPA,
SFTP and PFTI sub-projects; (iii) the three thematic programs (disability, youth and gender); and (iv)
other achievements.

I.       The Rapid Social Assessment (RSA)

The main objective of this first phase of the CDP was to prepare a poverty map for ten regions and to
identify the major Poverty Clusters (PC) in Lebanon and the characteristics of poverty within each PC. It
also included a need assessment study that in turn resulted in the determination of intervention priorities
lists. The CDR, in collaboration with the World Bank and based on several studies on poverty issues, was
able to determine ten regional poverty areas (RPA) which are:

         RPA 1:   Greater Beirut
         RPA 2:   Akkar
         RPA 3:   Tripoli
         RPA 4:   Minyeh, Donniyeh and Zgharta
         RPA 5:   Nabatiyeh, Marjeoun, Tyr and Bint-Jbeil
         RPA 6:   Saida and Jezzine
         RPA 7:   Baalbeck and Hermel
         RPA 8:   Jbeil, Batroun and Bcharre
         RPA 9:   Rachaya and Hasbaya
         RPA 10: Chouf and Aley

In each of these ten regions poverty data has been disaggregated to the level of the circonscription
foncière which is either a village or a set of villages. Based on the data collected, 35 indicators were used
to compare the different PCs and RPAs in a unified and standardized manner. These indicators were
grouped into 6 factors: Demography, Housing, Infrastructure, Social, Partnership, and Other. Separate
scores were obtained for each RPA and each PC, and a list of 70 poverty clusters ­ PCs (an average of 7
PCs per RPA) was finalized. The exercise permitted the determination of the characteristics of poverty in
the PCs and RPAs. These characteristics allowed in turn, the detection of the priorities and needs of the
poverty clusters, which helped in identifying the major types of interventions needed in each area. The set
priorities and areas of intervention provided the guidelines for the types of projects that are to be
implemented in each of the poverty clusters.

The determination of the characteristics of poverty in the PCs and RPAs showed discrepancies between
the PCs within the same RPA, and similarities between PCs in different RPAs. Therefore, there was a
need for a different type of analysis which grouped similar PCs under the same category. Using "Cluster
Analysis", different PCs from different RPAs were regrouped into significantly more homogenous
clusters or poverty profiles. Through this sort of analysis, four different clusters were identified:




                                                      17

     · The "Urban" Poverty Profile or Cluster

         This cluster is mainly composed of poverty bands that exist in or around main cities such as
         Beirut, Tripoli, and the Old city of Saida. It is usually composed of areas that attract migrants
         from other regions who come to the city looking for work opportunities.               The cluster is
         characterized by relatively acceptable demographic and infrastructure factors, but has the worst
         housing and social conditions of all the clusters. The high ratios of family per dwelling reflect the
         bad housing conditions. Low school performance and enrollment rates, and high illiteracy and
         drop out rates all indicate the serious problems faced by the youth in those areas.

     · The "Deserted" Poverty Profile or Cluster

         This cluster includes areas that have been abandoned by their populations which have mostly
         migrated. Governmental and municipal involvement is low in those areas due to the small
         number of registered residents. The main problems of this cluster are therefore those related to
         demographic and infrastructural factors. On the other hand, those deserted areas do not face
         serious issues pertaining to housing as the existing houses are mostly legal and in good
         conditions. This can be attributed to the fact that migrants do keep contact with their home
         villages where they build houses which they occasionally tend to visit.

     · The "Agriculture" Poverty Profile or Cluster

         Villages where agriculture is the main economic activity are the areas that fall within this cluster.
         Citizens of those villages have remained there despite the numerous problems they face.
         Therefore, those areas do not suffer from demographic or social problems. The main weak
         factors in this cluster are infrastructure and partnership, which are the worst among all the
         clusters. It suffers from very bad telecommunication and road services in addition to the low
         performance of municipalities and weak presence of other public or private institutions.
         Economic issues related to agricultural activities are set as priority issues to be addressed in
         clusters under this poverty profile.

     · The "Stop & Move" poverty profile or cluster

         This cluster is composed of areas that have, at some point in time, undergone some major external
         shock, such as civil wars and foreign occupation, which has led to deterioration in their
         development. This cluster has strong social and partnership factors. Indicators of educational
         performance are quite acceptable. Municipalities and NGOs are present and active. The major
         problems in those areas are thus historic problems.

The importance of this type of analysis lies in the capacity of this categorization to highlight the specific
needs of each of the four clusters. When a score card of the 6 factors and their indicators is obtained for
each cluster, it determines their relative areas of strength and weakness and thus allows for determining a
list of priorities and preferable modes of intervention. In this way, tailored policies for poverty alleviation
can be developed for each cluster. Consequently, PCs that fall under each cluster would follow the
priorities set within this cluster.

II.      The Implementation of RPA, SFTP and PFTI Sub-projects

Not counting the three thematic activities that tackled the issues of disability, youth and gender, the sub-
projects were divided into 3 types:

  (1)    RPA (Regional Poverty Area) sub-projects related to previously identified poverty clusters within
         the RSA study, with a ceiling of US$100,000 per sub-project and a requirement that the
         beneficiary contribution be at least 20% of the sub-project budget.



                                                       18

  (2)   SFTP (Small Fast Track Projects) which are smaller than the RPA projects, with a ceiling of
        US$30,000 per sub-project and a requirement that the beneficiary contribution be at least 20% of
        the sub-project budget.

  (3)   PFTI (Post-Conflict Fast Track Interventions) which were implemented in areas that were mostly
        affected by the July 2006 war, with a ceiling of US$50,000 per sub-project and a requirement that
        the beneficiary contribution be at least 10% of the sub-project budget.

A total of 320 sub-project contracts were implemented, with the following distribution:

                         Table 1: Number, Cost and Financing of Sub-Projects


        Sub-      Number         CDR         Beneficiary     Total        Average        Beneficiary
       project     of sub-   contribution    contribution    budget         CDR          contribution
        type      projects    ($ million)    ($ million)       ($       contribution      as a % of
                                                            million)      per sub-       total budget
                                                                         project ($)      (average)

      PFTI           74          3.53            0.52         4.05        47,700            12.8%
      RPA           119         11.15            3.76        14.91        93,700            25.2%
      SFTP          127          3.04            1.13         4.17        23,900            27.1%
      Total         320         17.72            5.41        23.13         55,400           23.4%


The legal framework of the CDP was respected:

    · The average CDR contribution per sub-project was less than or equal to the set ceiling.
    · The average beneficiary contribution per sub-project was within the set share of the budget.
    · The CDP intermediate outcome indicator was within the predetermined limit: 96.6% of the RPA
        sub-projects have been implemented in poverty clusters (PCs) identified in the RSA study
        (compared to an objective of at least 90%).

The distribution of funds among regions was not in accordance with the degree of poverty of the targeted
populations. For both RPA and SFTP taken together, the northern regions, which are the poorest in the
country, had the lowest budget per capita. To be able to understand the reasons behind this distribution, a
more detailed study on other factors that might have affected this distribution needs to be undertaken. For
instance, the numbers of NGOs located in each of the areas might have played a role (areas with a more
concentrated presence of NGOs may have been at an advantage to get more funds).

Poverty Profile and Sector of Activity

In the RSA phase, the selected poverty clusters were categorized into different poverty profiles in order to
specify the priority needs of each poverty cluster. The purpose of this division was to orient the choice of
sub-projects within each poverty cluster towards targeting the specific needs of the local communities.
Table 2 shows the distribution of sub-projects per poverty profile and per sector of activity. There are a
large number of sub-projects (112) that have been implemented outside the poverty profiles. The bulk of
those projects are PFTIs that were implemented in areas mostly affected by the July 2006 war, and which
did not belong to any of the determined poverty clusters. In addition, some of the SFTPs were launched
before the final outcomes of the RSA had been generated.



                                                    19

               Table 2: Distribution of Projects Per Poverty Profile and Sector of Activity


    Sector            Agriculture   Deserted   Stop & Move      Urban            Out           Total
                       #     %     #     %     #    %        #     %       #       %        #      %
    Agriculture       18     32%   19   43%    22     34%      1    2%      21      19%    81     25%
    Agro-industry &
    handcrafts         9     16%   7    16%    11     17%           0%      10       9%    37     12%
    Cultural &
    entertainment      5     9%    5    11%     8     13%      6    14%     20      18%    44     14%
    Education,
    Training & VTE    12     21%         0%     8     13%     22    51%     20      18%    62     19%
    Health             8     14%   2     5%     4     6%       4    9%      15      13%    33     10%
    Infrastructure -
    Environment        3     5%    9    20%     8     13%      3    7%       9       8%    32     10%
    Social             2     4%    2     5%     3     5%       7    16%     17      15%    31     10%
    Total             57    100%   44  100%    64    100%     43   100%     112    100%    320    100%



Following are some of the main findings of the evaluation:

(1)      The highest number of sub-projects (excluding the ones outside the PCs) was within the "Stop
and Move" PC profile with 64 sub-projects. The "Stop and Move" profile constituted the areas that were
affected by the July 2006 war; therefore, most of the PFTI sub-projects were concentrated in those areas.
The "Agriculture" PC profile had the second largest number of sub-projects (57), and the largest share of
the total budget since it had the highest share of RPA sub-projects (which have the highest ceiling of
US$100,000). This PC profile is also constituted of the highest number of poverty clusters (24 PCs). In
third place was the "Urban" PC profile with 43 sub-projects and the second largest budget. It also has the
second highest number of poverty clusters (18 PCs). This shows that the distribution of sub-projects was
indeed in accordance with the number of poverty clusters within each poverty profile.

(2)      Priorities set in the RSA study were indeed tackled by the sub-projects that were selected for each
poverty profile, as detailed below:

  (a)    In the "Agriculture" poverty profile, the main problems were those pertaining to economic
         issues related to the agricultural production sector and infrastructure problems. Those areas did
         not have social problems, and thus they need not require interventions of the social type (indeed
         only 4% of the projects were social). The highest share of sub-projects in this cluster was within
         the agriculture (32%), education, training and VTE (21%), and the agro-industry and handcrafts
         (16%) sectors.     This was in line with the first set priority.    However, the lack of proper
         infrastructure was not addressed very adequately since only 5% of the sub-projects in those areas
         were dedicated to infrastructure and environment.

  (b)    In the "Deserted" poverty profile, priority was given to the issue of demography, i.e., activities
         aimed at bringing people back to their villages. Improving infrastructure was the second priority
         within this poverty profile. Most of the sub-projects were of an agricultural nature (43%), which
         aimed at increasing opportunities for income generation. Infrastructure had the second highest
         share of sub-projects (20%), which was also in line with the set priorities.

  (c)    The "Stop and Move" poverty profile suffered mainly from historical problems that had
         stopped the development of those areas and prior to which they did not have serious obstacles



                                                     20

         facing their development. Since those areas are mainly rural agricultural areas, most of the sub-
         projects were within the agricultural sector (34%). There was a more or less even distribution
         between the different sectors of intervention because those areas were mostly affected by the July
         2006 war and as a result, needs in almost all sectors had emerged.

  (d)    Analysis of the "Urban" poverty profile showed that the main problems in those areas were due
         to poor social conditions; therefore, tackling those issues was the priority in this area. Indeed,
         more than half of the sub-projects in the urban poverty areas were dedicated to education, training
         and VTE, followed by social (16%) and cultural (14%) activities.

The Beneficiaries

The groups targeted by the CDP are categorized into 5 classes of beneficiaries: farmers, residents, social
cases, women and youth. Farmers have been targeted by 113 sub-projects. Women had the least share of
sub-projects, where only 20 had been dedicated to them. The distribution of sub-projects across the
categories of beneficiaries and the sectors of activity shows a high degree of compatibility between the
selected sub-projects and the target groups. Also, the analysis shows that the targeted beneficiaries in the
CDP are part of the most disadvantaged groups of the Lebanese population.

Other Findings

(a)      The average number of sub-projects per district was about 14. Baalbeck, Tripoli, and Greater
Beirut have the highest number of sub-projects, 35, 33 and 29 respectively. Those three districts also have
the highest share of total budget, followed by Nabatiyeh and Saida districts. The Northern districts of
Akkar, Hermel and Minyeh have the lowest share of sub-projects (12, 4, and 2 respectively).

(b)      Of the 320 sub-projects, 42.2% were completed on time and 57.8 were completed with a delay.

(c)      CDR Field Coordinators conducted 6.0 field visits by sub-project on average. The number of
visits in Tripoli was the highest and at 14.5 was strikingly higher than the rest. This was due to the fact
that the Field Coordinator in Tripoli was from Tripoli and resided there. The rest of the coordinators had
to travel to their assigned areas. Therefore, the most efficient coordination and follow-up would take
place if the field coordinators resided in the area of the implementation of the sub-projects.

III.     Thematic Programs (Disability, Youth and Gender)

The thematic programs have been executed in two phases, under two contracts for each program. The first
phase consisted of the preparation of a social assessment and action plan, which was implemented under
the second phase.

Disability

The Disability thematic program was implemented by a consortium formed by the Youth Association for
the Blind, the Lebanese Sitting handicapped, the Lebanese Down Syndrome Association and Save the
Children (Sweden).

The first phase was carried out in 2004 with the preparation of a disability social assessment and action
plan. The second phase started in 2005 and included three main domains: social (with the establishment
of 5 regional committees for advocacy and awareness about Law 220 on disability, and the completion of
a disability prevalence study), vocational (with the establishment of a job placement center and a data
base on potential employers) and educational, which was the heart of the program.



                                                       21

On the education side, the consortium collaborated with the MoSA to pilot the inclusion concept in 10
primary schools. Teachers were trained on how to work with disabled children in the classroom setting,
and on how to ensure that the normal children accept the disabled ones. A guidebook for teachers and
administrators has been produced on the modification of curricula and on how to deal with disabled
children in school and at home. Inclusion networks of NGOs and welfare institutions with representatives
of ministries were established. The Disability thematic program was completed in October 2007. But, it
is a process and it is open to the schools to develop further. Five of the 10 schools still need technical
support, and all schools may still need resources (such as books in Braille) and special equipment.
Inclusion was the domain of the MoSA but, apparently, the Ministry of Education is now interested in
working on inclusion in public schools.

Youth

The Youth thematic program was implemented by a consortium formed by the Rene Mouawad
Foundation, Arc en Ciel and Association pour le Développement des Capacités Rurales (ADR).

The first phase of the program was also carried out in 2004, with the preparation of a youth social
assessment and action plan. The activities targeted the poorer and more vulnerable youth groups and
aimed at improving access to services. Seven youth "focal centers" have been established in "poverty
clusters", and 14 social workers (2 per focal center) have been trained in life skills. These focal centers
provided life skills training to more than 1500 youth (working children, school dropouts, etc.). The
centers also put in place monthly CV writing workshops, and over 300 youth attended counseling
sessions. A website has been established for youth throughout Lebanon to seek information on services
that are being funded by the project in the 7 focal centers. The Youth thematic program was completed in
September 2007.

Gender

The Gender thematic program was implemented by the Hariri Foundation.

The first phase was completed at the end of 2006 with the preparation of a gender social assessment and
action plan. The second phase started in March 2007, with the action plan's priorities focused on two
main themes: legal aspects, and the role and image of women in the media.

The first theme is related to women's legal issues such as inheritance, nationality, violence, etc. The
objectives are to make women aware of their rights under existing laws, to amend laws that need to be
amended, and to introduce new laws that would improve women's status in society, all within a
framework of small and gradual changes.

The second priority is the media, with two objectives: to increase the role of women in the media (to
increase the number of women in decision-making positions and to increase their role in programming)
and to improve the image of Lebanese women in the media.

The Gender thematic program has been completed in June 2008. The findings have been disseminated
through conferences and workshops and postings on websites, targeting policy makers, parliamentarians,
lawyers, etc. The Hariri Foundation is planning to continue the work.




                                                     22

IV.      Other Achievements

NGO Survey

A survey of over 3,400 NGOs by a consulting firm joint venture has been completed, with the production
of a brochure on all NGOs in Lebanon and the classification of NGOs according to their area(s) of
expertise. The MoSA has taken over the management of this database.

Coordination with the Ministry of Social Affairs (MoSA)

In recent years, social safety net and poverty issues have become increasingly prominent on the
Government's development agenda. In early January 2007, a decree was signed by the Prime Minister
creating the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy. This Committee headed by the Prime Minister
includes the CDR President. In this context, it is of primary importance that the achievements of the CDP
are shared with the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy. This includes the dissemination of the
activities under the gender, youth, and disability thematic programs, the findings of the NGO survey, the
approaches which have been tested to implement sub-projects through NGOs, and the monitoring and
evaluation arrangements.

This information sharing process with MoSA is critical for the sustainability of project activities. As the
MoSA defines its programs for 2008-2010 in the context of a revised social policy framework, it would
be also important that the innovative approaches to gender, youth, and disability be reflected in the Social
Strategy, as this would be a first step towards designing higher impact programs. For example, the Social
Strategy should address issues in the area of disability such as the "inclusion" concept and approach, the
life skills activities which were carried out for out of school youth, and the innovative ways of creating
awareness of gender issues through the media.

Round Tables

Following the monitoring reports, a list of general topics emerged as national concerns. The subject of
school dropouts was raised as a concern and in fact it is a main point of discussion in the new education
strategy formulated by the Ministry of Education. For this, the Hariri Foundation, in collaboration with
CDR, organized a round table discussion on the topics. All CBOs that have implemented projects in this
field and were financed by the CDP were invited. The objectives of the discussion were to initiate
networking between these NGOs, allow the exchange of lessons, expose them to new academic
information in this domain and allow the creation of a follow up mechanism with the Ministry of
Education. So the results generated out of CDP would become living experience that could be followed
up at higher levels and consequently be integrated within strategies.




                                                     23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Since the benefits of most investments are not readily quantifiable, no attempt has been made to calculate
any economic or financial rates of return.




                                                    24

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a)    Task Team Members


         Names                             Title                 Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Bassam Ramadan          Senior Economist                        MNSHD  Task Team Leader
Ghada Youness           Senior Counsel                          LEGOP
David Steel             Acting Social Protection Sector Manager MNSHD
John Keith Rennie       Senior Social Scientist                 MNSRE
Robert Bou Jaoude       Financial Management Specialist         MNACS
Imah Saleh              Procurement Specialist                  MNACS
Sati Arnaout            Development Specialist (consultant)     MNSHD

Mario Antonio Zelaya    Social Development and Infrastructure
                       Specialist (consultant)                  MNSHD

Randa Nemer             Environment Specialist (consultant)     MNSHD
Mona Khalaf             Gender Specialist (consultant)          MNSHD
Afifa Alia Achsien      Program Assistant                       MNSHD

Supervision/ICR

Bassam Ramadan          Senior Economist                        MNSHD  Task Team Leader
Eileen Murray           Lead Operations Officer                 MNSHD  Task Team Leader

Stefano Mocci           Operations Officer                      MNCO2  Task Team Leader
                                                                            (ICR)
David Steel             Sector Manager                          MNSHD
Diana C. El Masri       Consultant                              MNAFM
Mona El-Chami           Financial Management Specialist         MNAFM
Lina Fares              Procurement Specialist                  MNAPR
Samira Ahmed Hillis     Operations Officer                      MNSHD
Hadia A. Karam          Senior Operations Officer               WBIHD
John Keith Rennie       Consultant                              MNSSD
Imad Saleh             Senior Procurement Specialist            EAPCO
Haneen Ismail Sayed     Lead Operations Officer                 MNSHD
Sophie Urnechlian       Program Assistant                       MNCLB
Afifa Alia Achsien      Senior Program Assistant                MNSHD




                                               25

(b)  Staff Time and Cost


                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                Stage of Project
                     Cycle       No. of staff   USD Thousands (including
                                  weeks         travel and consultant costs)

                Lending
                  FY01                       30           195.16
                  FY02                                      0.39
                  FY03                                      0.00
                  FY04                                      0.00
                  FY05                                      0.00
                  FY06                                      0.00
                  FY07                                      0.00
                  FY08                                      0.00
                          Total:             30           195.55
                Supervision/ICR
                  FY01                                      0.00
                  FY02                        8            39.68
                  FY03                        8            25.41
                  FY04                       13            52.94
                  FY05                       18            75.00
                  FY06                       24            76.49
                  FY07                       19            65.00
                  FY08                       11            47.40
                          Total:           101            381.92




                                             26

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Consultation and Research Institute (CRI), the consulting firm recruited by CDR to develop and
undertake the Monitoring and Evaluation plan of the CDP, carried out the evaluation of 53 sub-projects in
8 poverty clusters (PCs), out of a total of 320 sub-projects in 70 PCs. Although not a beneficiary survey
per se, the evaluation included certain elements of a beneficiary survey. The full description and results of
that evaluation are given in CRI's final M&E report dated February 2008.

Methodology

The PCs selected for evaluation were required to have the following characteristics:

   (a)   Represent the various poverty profiles in the various Lebanese districts/areas;
   (b)   Include the largest number of sub-projects;
   (c)   Include a variety of sub-project types (RPA, SPTF and PFTI);
   (d)   Cover various sectors of activity, i.e. agriculture, agro-food industry and handcrafts, education
         and vocational training, health, infrastructure and social activities;
   (e)   Impact various livelihood components, i.e. human capital, physical capital, natural capital and
         social capital;
   (f)   Address various beneficiary groups.

In addition, the evaluation was to cover sub-projects implemented in each of the four poverty profiles
(Agricultural rural areas, Deserted areas, Urban areas, and Stop and Move areas).

The four-step implementation included the composition of the team, the development of a checklist, the
field work and the desk analysis. The on-field evaluation was divided into several steps as follows:

     · In-depth interview with the NGO representative: where information about the scope and the
         experience of the NGO was collected in addition to information about the project itself in terms
         of management, impact and lessons learned. The NGO representative also evaluated the relation
         of the NGO with the CDR throughout the duration of the project.
     · In-depth interview with the project manager: where a detailed description of the sub-project was
         given in terms of its purpose, preparation, implementation, beneficiaries, impact, and
         sustainability. The project manager also discussed the lessons learned from this experience and
         their relation with the CDR.
     · Focus groups and/or in-depth interviews with the beneficiaries: The beneficiaries who were part
         of the sub-projects expressed their opinions regarding the quality and impact of the projects, their
         degree of satisfaction, and the suggestions they had for improving similar future interventions.

The field work included conducting 2 in-depth interviews (with the NGO representative and with the sub-
project manager) and, to the extent possible, one focus group with the beneficiaries for each of the 53
projects. The field work took around 3 months to be completed. The final results amounted to a total of
106 in-depth interviews, but less than 53 focus groups because of difficulties in reaching the beneficiaries
in some cases.

Constraints and limitations

The application of the abovementioned methodology faced three major limitations or constraints: (i) a
very tight schedule (with a final report to be submitted at the end of February 2008); (ii) difficulties in
assessing impact (for some sub-projects the impact had not occurred yet, or could not be detected or
assessed within a limited period of time); and (iii) impediments in the field work because of transportation
/ logistics problems or difficulties in reaching the beneficiaries.



                                                      27

Distribution of the Evaluated Sub-Projects

                         Table: Sectors of Activity and Evaluated Sub-Projects

           Sector of Activity                  Sub-     Total Budget RPA          SFTP PFTI
                                               projects (US$)
           Education, training and VTE*          15           1,529,949    12       3       -
           Increasing Productivity               17           1,849,025    12       2       3
           Cultural and Entertainment             9             528,538    3        5       1
           Renovation and Equipment               7             424,720    2        4       1
           Health Conditions                      5             316,881    2        2       1
                                       Total     53           4,649,113    31       16      6

          * Vocational and Technical Education

A total of 31 RPA sub-projects, 16 SFTP sub-projects, and 6 PFTI sub-projects were evaluated. They had
a total budget of around US$ 4.65 million. The bulk of the RPA sub-projects, which have the highest
budget ceiling of US$100,000, were concentrated in the education, training and VTE, and the increasing
productivity sectors of activity. These two sectors had the highest share of the budget and the largest
number of sub-projects.

Summary of Main Findings Regarding the 53 Evaluated Sub-Projects

Education, Training and VTE Sector (15 evaluated sub-projects)

The main types of courses given were educational (such as literacy courses and academic assistance
classes), vocational training (such as car repair) and arts and crafts courses (such as candle and soap
making). Many sub-projects conducted more than one type of training activity. The total number of
training courses amounted to 144, with a total of 1,544 participants. The number of participating women
was slightly higher than the number of men.

The impact of the sub-projects cannot be properly evaluated because the majority of NGOs did not have a
proper system of tracking and follow-up of beneficiaries. Compared to the large number of beneficiaries
(1,544) from the courses, it seems that very few found jobs. The NGOs did not have records of those
people; therefore, their exact number could not be determined.

Other findings include the following:

    · Focused training aimed at interested beneficiaries of specific age groups (such as technical and
        vocational courses) yields the most successful results.
    · Mass training in education, if not very carefully organized, has a high probability of missing its
        target.
    · Providing certificates upon course completion is an incentive for better performance (only 30% of
        sub-projects did).
    · Longer periods of training provide the opportunity for more in-depth learning, thus increase the
        chances of beneficiaries to use their acquired skills for income-generating purposes.

Increasing Productivity Sector (17 evaluated sub-projects)

The main objectives of those sub-projects were to enhance the productivity of agricultural land, crops and
livestock, increase the income of the targeted beneficiaries, and reduce their cost of production. The



                                                     28

types of intervention included are: providing agricultural equipment, improving livestock health and
nutrition, creating workshops for agro-food production, and building markets for selling agro-food
products. The targeted groups of 5,618 beneficiaries were mainly agricultural farmers and owners of
livestock (two sub-projects also targeted fishermen and beekeepers). Measuring the impact of those sub-
projects is extremely difficult at this stage since such types of activities need a longer period of time for
their results to be observed and measured. The conducted field survey was able to collect "expectations"
of the increase in production, increase in income, and decrease in cost that some of the sub-project
directors and beneficiaries predicted (unfortunately, the response rates were low). Despite the above-
mentioned obstacles, the CRI team was able to provide a general quantified estimation of the impact that
the implemented sub-projects are expected to achieve:

    · The expected increase in production, which about 40% of the sub-project managers and
         beneficiaries was able to estimate, amounted to about 50%.
    · The expected increase in income as declared by about 40% of the interviewees was estimated at
         about 30%.
    · Regarding the expected decrease in cost, only 23% of the interviewees were able to estimate it,
         and it amounted to an approximate decrease of 50%.

Other findings include the following:

    · The expected increase in income encourages beneficiaries to actively cooperate in making the
         sub-project a success.
    · Sub-projects within this sector have high chances of becoming auto-sustainable in the future, thus
         stand the highest chances of success.
    · Building a sense of ownership by allowing the local community to manage the sub-project after
         its completion is a key to success.
    · The creation of an economic cycle where all members of the local community benefit can be
         achieved through this type of sub-projects.

Cultural and Entertainment Sector (9 evaluated sub-projects)

Activities within the sector of culture and entertainment have the purpose of stimulating social
relationships, promoting cultural activities, and creating space for and organizing recreational activities
and social events. The types of activities varied between sports-related, cultural, recreational, and
environmental awareness campaigns. A total of 4,101 people have benefited directly from the organized
activities; the indirect beneficiaries are the members of the local communities at large. The aim of sub-
projects within this sector of activity is to build social capital. Independently from the types of activities
performed, 5 sub-projects were able to organize activities and social events after the implementation
phase had been completed; some have also been able to incorporate daily activities in the built centers or
sports stadiums. These sub-projects are considered to have been successful. The successful sub-projects
within this sector of activity were implemented by local NGOs that work only at the level of their village
and are thus grass-root NGOs which have emerged from the local communities themselves.

Other findings include the following:

    · The success of such sub-projects highly depends on the organizational capabilities of the local
         community and its enthusiasm to continue organizing activities and events.

    · Social and cultural bridges are built through providing public spaces where groups from different
         villages and areas can all meet and engage in social, cultural, or sports events.



                                                      29

    · The availability of recreational places in villages encourages the city dwellers to return to their
        villages during vacations and weekends, thus strengthening their sense of belonging to their
        origins.

    · Awareness campaigns should take into consideration the educational and social status of their
        target beneficiaries in order to be able to influence them.

Renovation and Equipment Sector (7 evaluated sub-projects)

The sector of renovation and equipment is comprised of sub-projects whose objective is to renovate
existing facilities (such as a school and a home for the elderly) and provide different types of equipment
that can better serve the local communities. The targeted beneficiaries varied depending on the
specificities of each sub-project; they included school students, elderly, and women and children. Some of
these sub-projects were not adequate since they were not based on a prior assessment showing what the
local communities actually needed.

Other findings included the following:

    · Cooperating with local authorities is a key to the success of infrastructure sub-projects.
    · Renovating buildings and purchasing equipment may need to be complemented by a human
        development aspect in order to contribute to the development of the local communities.

Health Conditions Sector (5 evaluated sub-projects)

The main objective of the "health conditions" sub-projects is to build human capital through providing
better health services for the deprived communities. Their means of intervention varied between
renovation of existing health care centers and establishing new sections for new types of treatment and
disease detection that were not provided before. Overall, the sub-projects have achieved their goals since
they have increased the number of patients and have added new services to the centers.

Other findings include the following:

    · Covering a larger number of beneficiaries as well as a larger geographical coverage area
        improves the success of health related sub-projects.
    · Providing perishable materials such as drugs and first aid supplies does not provide sustainable
        success.
    · A prior need assessment on the types of medical equipment needed helps in providing the exact
        needed equipment rather than duplicating existing ones.

Conclusions

On balance, the evaluation report is quite disappointing. Because of the major limitations and constraints
mentioned earlier, the report does not provide a comprehensive impact assessment of all the 53 selected
sub-projects. The report draws some interesting lessons learned. However, on outcome and impact, the
evaluation conveys only "impressions" (mostly favorable ones) about the sub-projects. But, it does not
capture nor document with hard data and facts the exact changes that the CDP has produced, and the way
these changes may have improved (they probably did, though!) the living conditions and economic status
of disadvantaged communities".




                                                      30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                           31

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                       REPUBLIC OF LEBANON

                             Council for Development and Reconstruction

                           Community Development Project (Loan 7064-LE)

                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - CDR's Comments


The Community Development Project (CDP) funded by the World Bank is officially closed. Similar to all
other development experiences, it is important to distill lessons learned from implementing CDP in order
to better inform and guide future similar interventions. Moreover, the World Bank will issue shortly an
ICR (Implementation Completion Report) and it is appropriate for the Implementing Agency (CDR) to
express its own perspective vis-à-vis the design, implementation, and supervision of the project.

    1. Project Overview

    1.1. The development objective of the Community Development Project (CDP) is to establish an
    effective and sustainable instrument to improve the living conditions and the economic status of
    disadvantaged communities. This will be achieved by a four-pronged approach to : (i) improve access
    to basic social and economic infrastructure (ii) improve the economic status of poor and more
    vulnerable households; (iii) develop special social programs that target the needs of specific
    vulnerable groups, especially women, children and the disabled; and (iv) document the experience
    obtained through this Project and derive the lessons learned in consultation with ministries that are
    engaged in the development of a longer-term strategy to reduce social and regional imbalances in
    human development.

    1.2. Progress towards this objective would be measured and monitored based on: (i) evolution in the
    diversity, quantity, quality and cost of services accessed or accessible by less advantaged
    communities; (ii) the number, distribution and socio-economic profile of beneficiaries; (iii) the
    number and distribution of local communities in targeted areas with implemented CDP subprojects;
    and (iv) the documentation and communication at the national level of achievements and lessons
    learned and the effectiveness of the instrument, including selected poverty and human development
    indicators.


    1.3. Addressing regional inequity in the provision of basic infrastructure while improving the access
    of the poor to social services has always been a key priority for successive Governments in Lebanon.
    The Government is, politically, committed to a development strategy that focuses on the balanced and
    equitable development of all the regions of Lebanon. This commitment aims at promoting a culture of
    performance in the provision of social services through community participation in decision making
    and NGO involvement in service delivery. The implementation of the CDP was planned to fall within
    the Government strategy to meet that commitment.


    1.4. The objectives of the CDP are in line with the priorities set by the Government, within the Social
    Action Plan, to promote sustainable and equitable development and to combat poverty. This Plan was
    an integral part of the Government fiscal and economic program that was presented to donors at the
    Paris 3 conference for Lebanon.




                                                    32

    1.5. Although the depth and incidence of poverty have specific distribution patterns, and although all
    districts of the country show some levels of poverty, numerically the areas of greatest need fall in four
    large geographic clusters. These are: (i) the north, including the extremely deprived rural district of
    Akkar which, together with the deprived urban core of Tripoli, and the district of Miniye, accounts for
    over a third of the national poverty; (ii) Greater Beirut, which has a lower proportion of deprivation
    than the rest of the country but where, by sheer weight of numbers, over one quarter of the need is
    located; (iii) the south, severely affected by occupation and war; and (iv) the eastern Bekaa
    districts of Hermel and Baalbeck. Other areas where there is a smaller concentration of poverty
    are: (i) the mountainous area of Jbeil ­ Batroun ­Bcharreh; (ii) West Bekaa (Rachaya ­Hasbayya);
    and (iii) Saida ­Chouf. These clusters were included in the Project and are considered among the
    most deprived areas in the country.

     1.6. The implementation of the CDP was along two programs:

             (a) integrated regional community development programs targeted geographically
             among priority poverty clusters.
             (b) sector-specific thematic programs at the national level.

         These programs were identified, designed and implemented by CBOs with the participation of the
         local beneficiary communities or groups, local administration, and other grass root entities.
         Coordination was required with local municipalities to ensure that there is a commitment of the
         municipalities to participate in and to assume responsibility for services requiring operation and
         maintenance after commissioning.

    1.7. Mode of implementation: The selected CBOs implemented sub-projects based on the CDP OM
    (Operation Manual) which provided detailed guidelines and instructions for: (i) transparent targeting
    mechanisms and equitable allocation of resources; (ii) subproject eligibility, design and
    implementation; (iii) CBOs program cycle; (iv) beneficiary social assessment; (v) project monitoring
    and impact indicators; (vi) reporting requirements, (vii) procurement, disbursements and financial
    management; (viii) addressing gender considerations; (ix) environmental guidelines; and (x)
    evaluation of CBOs' programs.

    2. Lessons learned:


2.1. At the Policy Level: The CDP was launched in the absence of a national social development strategy.
Although the country had its first national "Millennium Development Goals Report (MDGR)", yet it was
not officially adopted and was not used as an alternative reference framework by the various public
institutions and administrations. At that time, it was anticipated that the CDP will be able to fill in some
of this gap and that it will become a new experience from which future interventions could benefit from
its strengths as well as its weaknesses. Currently, the Government in general and the CDR in particular
are in the process of identifying ways to optimize the outcomes of the CDP as well as other similar
projects and programs to develop the country's social development strategy.

2.2. At the Project Level (Design and Concept): Although the developmental objectives of the CDP were
clear, yet its design was in some way complicated which did not reflect a clear understanding of the
Lebanese context. This was revealed in the recruitment of "Project Intermediaries- PIs" (be it a non-
governmental organization (NGO), a community- based organization (CBO) or a joint venture of NGOs and
CBOs) to design and manage the implementation of the project activities sectorally or within one of the
designated Poverty Clusters (PC) during the initial implementation phase of the CDP. This proved to be
ineffective due to the specificity of the Lebanese situation. In order to rectify this situation, the CDR and


                                                      33

the Bank agreed to re-consider the design of the Project which positioned the Project on a correct track
but consumed considerable time. In our opinion, this situation could have been avoided if more time was
given and profound assessment of the local context was carried out during the design phase of the Project.
Different groups who consider themselves representatives of the communities that they serve, especially
municipalities, raised unwarranted queries as to the effectiveness of relying on CBOs to deliver services
and its implicit rationalization.

2.3. At the Institutional Level: The CDR collaborates with various partners to elaborate social policies in
accordance to its designated role and responsibilities. However, the structure of the Council does not
facilitate the implementation of small-scale social projects that require day-to-day follow-up, as is the
case with large-scale projects.
It is worth to mention, that ten years after the end of the civil war the majority of public administrations
were unable to restore their pre-war capacities due to various reasons. These administrations have been
affected by: a) the brain drain that resulted from the protracted civil war, b) the inability to attract young
and qualified human resources due to low wages being offered by the public sector and c) the different
impediments that made it difficult for the Government to carry out a comprehensive reform of the public
sector. Based on this, the Council was selected as the most appropriate alternative to embrace this CDP.
Within this context also, the finalization of and putting in place clear procurement procedures and
qualification requirements of the NGOs required extensive time due to the: a) the disorder in the status as
well as in the records of the NGOs/CBOs; b) the significant variation in the level of the NGOs/CBOs as
regards to their technical expertise for proposal writing and project management in addition to their
experience and financial viability


2.4. At the Implementation Level: CDR had to deal with the CDP like any other project and applied its regular
procurement, payment and reception procedures in accordance to its operational rules and regulations. This
renounced the CDP from its specific social feature to the extent that it gradually turned out to be a project for
managing NGO contracts.


2.5      At the Sustainability Level: CDR has been able to accumulate enough experience that would assist in
overcoming obstacles if asked by the Government to implement projects of similar nature in the future.
The continuity of this as well as any other similar project will be jeopardized unless the restructuring process of
the Ministry of Social Affairs is expedited which will enable this Ministry to make use of the positive results
that emanated from the implementation of the CDP and which are conducive towards the elaboration of a
national social strategy.




                                                     34

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                            35

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  a) Project Appraisal Document (PAD) ­ Report No.: 22041-LE ­ May 29, 2001
  b) Project Information document (PID) ­ March 8, 2001
  c) Minutes of Negotiations ­ May 2001
  d) Loan Agreement between the Lebanese Republic and IBRD for the CDP (Ln.7064-LE) -
      September 10, 2001
  e) Project Agreement between CDR and IBRD for the CDP ­ September 10, 2001
  f) CDR ­ CDP- Operations Manual ­ Volume I (Guidelines and Procedures) and Volume II
      (Annexes) ­ September 2002
  g) Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) ­ Sep/Oct 2004
  h) CDR ­ CDP ­ Small Fast Track Projects (SFTPs) ­ A Tool to Empower Grass-Root Groups _
      Simplified Implementation Guidelines ­ May 2004 & July 2005
  i)  CDR ­ CDP ­ Regional Poverty Areas (RPAs) Program - Simplified Implementation Guidelines
      ­ January 2005
  j)  CDR ­ CDP ­ Regional Poverty Areas (RPAs) Program ­ Pilot Projects­ October 2005
  k) Requests for Amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements
  l)  Findings of the Procurement Ex-Post reviews ­ June 2006 and March 2007
  m) All the Aide-Memoires of Supervision Missions
  n) All the 17 PSRs and ISRs
  o) Consultation and Research Institute (CRI) ­ Monitoring and Evaluation ­ Report # 1 ­ April 2007
  p) Consultation and Research Institute (CRI) ­ Monitoring and Evaluation ­ Report # 2 ­ July 2007
  q) Consultation and Research Institute (CRI) ­ Monitoring and Evaluation ­ Report # 3 ­ October
      2007
  r) Consultation and Research Institute (CRI) ­ Monitoring and Evaluation ­ Final Report ­
      February 2008




                                               36

Annex 10. Overall Rating of Project Outcome ­ The Weighting Process.

Basic data

Formal restructuring date: February 2007
Disbursements at restructuring: US$6.47 million
Rating before restructuring: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Rating after restructuring: Moderately satisfactory

Value for each rating:

Highly satisfactory = 6
Satisfactory = 5
Moderately satisfactory = 4
Moderately unsatisfactory = 3
Unsatisfactory = 2
Highly unsatisfactory = 1


                                       Against Original Against Revised   Overall
                                             PDOs           PDOs


1.    Rating                              Moderately     Moderately
                                         unsatisfactory  satisfactory          -


2.    Rating value                              3             4                -


3.    Weight (% disbursed before /
      after PDO change)                       32%            68%            100%


4.    Weighted value (2x3)                    0.96           2.72            3.68


5.    Final rating (rounded)                                             Moderately
                                                                         satisfactory




                                                    37

