Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18859
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2159-CHA)
January22, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal (1990): $1.00 = Y 4.72
Completion Year (end-June 1998): $1.00 =- Y 8.3
(Intermediate years are given in Annex C, Appendix 5, Table 1)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC        Agricultural Bank of China
DAP        Diammonium Phosphate
FAO/CP    FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPM        Integrated Pest Management
MAP        Monoammonium Phosphate
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PMO        Project Management Office
POM        Plan of Operation and Maintenance
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SIDD       Self-Financing Irrigation and Drainage District
Vice President   : Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director : Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager  : Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Task Managers   : Richard Reidinger, EACCF and Qun Li, EASRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................................III
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................V
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................I
A. Project Objectives and  Description .....................................................l                             I
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................                              3
C. Major Factors Affecting  the Project ......................................................                           8
D. Project Sustainability ......................................................9
E. IDA  Performance .....................................................                                               10
F. Borrower Performance .....................................................                                           10
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................                                          11
H. Future Operation .....................................................                                               12
I. Key  Lessons Leamed .....................................................                                            12
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .....................................................                                                  14
Table  1: Summary  of Assessmen ts .....................................................                                14
Table 2: Related  Bank  Loans/Credits .....................................................                              1 5
Table 3: Project Timetable .....................................................                                        15
Table 4: Credit Disbursement: Cumulative  Estimate and  Actual .................... 16
Table 5: Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................... 16
Table 6: Key  Indicators For Project Operations .............................................. 18
Table  7: Studies included  in  Project .....................................................                           19
Table 8a: Project Costs .....................................................                                          20
Table 8b: Project Financing .....................................................                                      20
Table 9: Economic Costs and  Benefits .....................................................                              21
Table  10: Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                               22
Table  11: Compliance with  Operational Manual Statemlents .......................... 23
Table  12: Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................................                           23
Table  13: Bank  Resources: Missions .....................................................                               24
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 27
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRF .................................................... 34
ANNEX C: DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE .................................................... 48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2159-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Hebei Agricultural
Development Project in China for which Credit 2159-CHA in the amount of SDR 116.1
million ($150 million) was signed on July 2, 1990 and made effective on September 21,
1990.
The original financing plan was modified by two extensions of the original credit
closing date, each of six months, to June 30, 1998. Final disbursement occurred on
January 6, 1998, when the credit was entirely disbursed.
This ICR draft was prepared by a joint World Bank and FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) mission,' which visited China in October 1998. The
Hebei Agricultural Development Project Office had prepared a draft ICR and two
volumes of supporting tables on investment costs and component analysis, which
provided much of the basis of the mission's work. In addition, reference was made to the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), President's Report, Credit and Project Agreements and
Supervision Reports. With the full collaboration of the project authorities, the mission
also undertook a program of field visits in order to allow on-site inspection and
discussions with staff and authorities in some of the various counties and cities covered
by the project and with the beneficiaries.
J. H. Weatherhogg (FAO/CP Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist); W. Price (World Bank, Irrigation
Engineer), R. Chisholm (Agronomist, Consultant): A. Kaclin (Aquaculturist, Consultant) and D. Gue
(Agroindustry Specialist, Consultant).






- v -
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2159-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
I.   In the late 1 980s the World Bank Group supported a series of provincial
development projects in which an area development approach was applied. More general
land development and intensification of agriculture was promoted by the North China
Plain Project (Credit 1261-CHA) and the closely related Hebei Agricultural Development
Project financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD Loan
1 07-CHA). The Bank Group was responsible for appraisal and supervision of the latter
project, which was implemented over the period 1983-87. Technology developed and
tested during the IFAD project and lessons learned from the implementation experience
were embodied in the subsequent International Development Association (IDA) project,
which is the subject of this ICR.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objective was to alleviate poverty and increase farm incomes by
raising productivity and marketability of agricultural, livestock and aquatic products in
the area administered by the cities of Tangshan and Qinhuangdao in the northeast of the
province and the Heilonggang area in the south. For this purpose, the project was to: (a)
strengthen the province's ability to effectively manage its available water resources; (b)
increase and intensify productivity of existing low-yielding crops and diversify the
cropping patterns; (c) promote market analysis as a criteria for increasing production and
improving processing of major commodities; (d) expand agroprocessing activities to
rationalize fertilizer production and make use of agricultural by-products; (e) promote an
effective use of crop residues in expanding livestock production; and (f) strengthen
provincial applied research and extension programs for crop, livestock, aquaculture and
water conservancy. The largest component was for water conservancy, accounting for
about one-third of project costs. In Heilonggang this included increase in surface water
irrigation, including provision of gates to existing drainage channels to increase storage
and replacement of pumping stations lifting water from the Wai He (river). This was to
enable full irrigation of 24,000 hectares (ha) and a further 120,000 ha to receive partial or
supplementary irrigation. In addition, a total of 9,950 new shallow wells were to be sunk
and both these and a proportion of existing wells would be equipped with water-saving
pipes, enabling an additional 103,400 ha to become irrigated. In the northeast,
improvements to existing surface irrigation schemes through provision of reservoirs and



- vi -
control gates and expansion of area by development of wasteland was expected to
increase irrigated area by about 29,000 ha. Finance was also provided for a Water
Resources Development Plan to strengthen monitoring, planning, operating and
managing of surface and groundwater resources, with particular reference to conjunctive
surface and groundwater use and competition from other water users; training; and Water
Resources Research covering: (a) investigation of the changing surface water runoff
patterns; (b) study of methods to improve or reclaim partially saline lands through surface
and groundwater irrigation practices; (c) survey, evaluation and assessment of wastewater
use in agriculture; and (d) future water use efficiency and water allocation.
3.    Agricultural development accounted for about a quarter of total project costs and
included financing of imported agrochemicals, namely 63,500 tons of diammonium
phosphate (DAP), 740 tons of pesticides and 6,000 tons of resin for production of plastic
film; improvement to seed production, particularly cottonseed in Heilonggang through
renovation and expansion of 17 existing cottonseed production ginneries, introduction of
acid delinting technology, strengthening and upgrading 18 seed farms and 2 seed
companies and in the northeast upgrading 7 seed companies producing wheat, paddy,
maize, oil crops and vegetable seeds; introduction of date intercropping of cereals over
about 20,000 ha and improvement of existing date intercropped areas as well as
establishment of 1,700 ha of new pear orchards and rehabilitation of 4,000 ha of existing
pear orchards; provision of fuel storage, fuel pumps and other small equipment at 360
Agromachinery Service Centers; strengthening agricultural extension by construction of
eight County Agrotechnical Extension Centers, 124 Township Technical Service Centers
and provision of equipment and training with particular attention to Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) programs; and agricultural research programs including: (a)
development of improved cotton varieties; (b) irrigation and fertilizer applications for
cotton; (c) cotton pests and diseases; (d) development of small farm machinery; (e)
irrigation and fertilizer application and pest control for Chinese dates; (f) improving
quality of pears and dates; (g) economies of drip irrigation for fruit crops; and (h)
development of high-yielding, short-season paddy varieties, water and fertilizer
application.
4.    Livestock development accounted for about 10 percent of project costs and aimed
at integrating livestock into the farming system-particularly supporting the use of straw
after ammonia treatment and planting of alfalfa to allow 1,775 specialized households to
have sheep and goat breeding and fattening enterprises and a further 600 farms to
specialize in beef fattening. Research topics covered by the project included artificial
insemination technology; sheep feeding, management and breed improvement; livestock
product processing and preservation; and artificial pasture establishment and
management. Six small slaughterhouses were to be constructed, each with a daily
capacity of around 115 animals (mostly pigs).
5.    Aquaculture also accounted for about 10 percent of project costs and included
rehabilitation of 3,200 ha of existing shrimp ponds and construction of 530 ha of new
ponds, construction of 716 ha of freshwater fish ponds, scallop production in the Bo Hai



- vii -
(sea) and supporting infrastructure, including hatcheries, feedmills and freezers/cold
stores, research on selection of suitable freshwater fish species and training.
6.    Agroindustry investment amounted to over 20 percent of project costs and
included expansion and upgrading of a nitrogenous fertilizer plant to have an annual
capacity of 53,000 tons of granular urea; a related phosphatic fertilizer plant upgrade to
produce 30,000 tons annually of monoammonium phosphate; a particle board factory
with a 30,000 cubic meter (m3) annual capacity and a 10,000 tons per year paper mill.
This component was expanded at post-appraisal and at mid-term review by technological
enhancement of the two fertilizer plants and the Quxian paper mill, and by the addition of
the Gucheng Wholesale Market for I million tons per year of produce, Changli Fishnet
Factory for 90 tons per year of net and twine, and Quxian Paper Mill Phase II for 15,000
tons per year of coated card and cardboard cases.
7.    Overall institutional development was supported by training and technical
assistance to the Project Management Offices (PMOs) at all levels (provincial, county,
prefecture), particularly in project monitoring and evaluation, as well as in cost
accounting and reporting systems.
8.    As part of the subcomponents for wells and water-saving pipes, agrochemicals,
agricultural mechanization and livestock development, four revolving funds were to be
established with the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) with respective values of Y 32.5
million, Y 11.2 million, Y 1.5 million, and Y 16.2 million, or a total value at appraisal
equivalent to around $13 million. Responsibility for managing the revolving funds rested
with the PMOs, and establishment of the funds was made a covenant. Other covenants
related to groundwater monitoring and control on sinking of new wells, project
management and accounts, environmental aspects, management of agroindustry units,
production of operation and maintenance (O&M) guidelines for pumping stations, and
annual review of cotton prices paid to farmers.
9.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. Project objectives were clear and appropriate,
soundly based on experience from the earlier project. The emphasis on water conservancy
but otherwise wide scope of the components was appropriate for the province's
agricultural sector development and poverty reduction.
Implementation Experience and Results
10.   Project performance has generally been highly successful, with most of the targets
set at appraisal attained or surpassed, as described in the following section and
summarized in Table 5.
11.   Sustainability of the investments and improvements made by the project is
assessed as likely. However, close continued attention will be required to ensure that: (a)
there is continued careful monitoring and management of groundwater resources; (b)
further determined efforts to reach agreement on the sharing of water resources, both
between irrigation and other uses and between the project area and other upstream and



- viii -
downstrearn areas; (c) a strategy for cotton growing is adopted that fully embodies IPM
and mitigates cotton growers' production risks; (d) still greater reliance is placed on the
production household responsibility system; (e) further encouragement is given to pnrvate
sector farm machinery services; (f) water charges for farmers should reflect the true cost
of supply from whatever source; and (g) charges for other services provided by the
Government, such as veterinary assistance or agricultural machinery, should cover the
cost of provision.
12.   Regarding the above issues to project sustainability, the provincial project
management reiterated its firm policy and determination to continue to promote the
household production responsibility system as the basis for Hebei's agricultural
development. Adoption of realistic water charges (according to source of irrigation
water), introduction of water-saving technology, rationalization of water use in
agriculture, and measures to recharge groundwater were Hebei's main goals in water
resource development. Project management was also concenned to ensure the long-term
sustainability of cotton growing and was promoting intercropping with vegetables and
other green crops as a means of improving fertility and reducing the proportion of cotton
in the rotation. Project management also expected steadily greater reliance to be placed
on the private sector for provision of agricultural machinery services in the future. Good
arrangements have been made for handover of components to the responsible agencies (as
described in Section H below) and project sustainability is rated likely.
13.   Project Cost and Financing. Total project costs are estimated at credit closing at
$342.6 million, or about 11 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of $309.6 million.
Savings in the cost of the water conservancy component (9.2 percent of SAR estimate,
including contingencies), agriculture (87 percent) and farmn machinery (91 percent) were
more than offset by increases in the other components. Most importantly the
agroindustries component cost increased to $98.3 million, or 154 percent of the $63.7
million including contingencies estimated at appraisal, causecl by increases in the cost of
high-specification imported equipment and increased local costs for final design and
construction. The cost of institutional development at $10.3 million was 163 percent
higher than the $3.9 million estimated at appraisal, but this includes technological
redesign of the two fertilizer factories and the addition of three post-appraisal and mid-
term  subcomponents. Aquaculture costs, at $41.2 million, were 116 percent of the
appraisal estimate of $35.4 million including contingencies, clue to the increased cost of
high-quality imported cold stores and higher cost design of deeper shrimp ponds. The
livestock cost was marginally higher at 111 percent of appraisal estimates (Table 8a). As
shown in Table 8b, the main feature of project financing was a reduction in the proportion
of funds derived from provincial, prefectural and county governments, which was
compensated by an increase in beneficiary contribution, which increased to $102 million,
or about 30 percent of total funding, compared to an estimated $43 million, or only 14
percent at appraisal. In general, the implementation schedule was well adhered too. Delay
in construction and equipping of the Junliu pumping station was the main reason for
extension of the credit closing date, which also accommodated the delays in completion,
commissioning and startup of the agroindustry components.



- ix -
14.   The main factors affecting the project were the generally good perfornance of
project management during implementation, despite natural disasters including a typhoon
in 1992, shrimp diseases and cotton bollworm infestation. Delays in implementation were
due to a lack of agreement on water-sharing of the Wei He (river), which ultimately led to
redesign and rescheduling of construction of the Junliu pumping station; difficulties in
procurement through international competitive bidding (ICB) for agroindustry
development, mainly due to inadequate technical specification; and difficulty in raising
adequate counterpart funding (including working capital) for the agroindustry component,
which delayed awarding of civil works and equipment contracts as well as plant startup.
15.   IDA's performance was generally highly satisfactory in embodying in the design
the lessons learned from the earlier project. Subsequent supervision was also well carried
out with considerable technical assistance provided in project implementation, most
notably in the agroindustries component. The care taken in supervision has been a major
contributing factor to the project's success. The borrower's performance in project
implementation and compliance with covenants was highly satisfactory. Project
management was very good in keeping to the planned implementation timetable and
incorporating recommendations of the supervision missions. Weaker points have been the
lack of agreement on sharing of surface water resources; the need for still closer
monitoring and management of groundwater; the requirement for a better, less risky,
strategy for cotton production; the desirability of still greater reliance on the household
production responsibility system; the necessity of adjusting charges for irrigation water
from whatever source and for other government services to farmers, to reflect the cost of
provision of such services; and delays in implementation due to difficulty in raising
counterpart finance.
16.   Assessment of Project Outcome. Overall, the project has been highly successful
in achieving or exceeding the targets set at appraisal. However, a number of potential
risks remain for project sustainability, as mentioned in para. 11 and discussed further in
Section D. These could constitute major shortcomings for the project, but the provincial
project management has firmly empahsized the policies as detailed in para. 12, and good
arrangements have been made for handover of the project components to the responsible
agencies (see Section H). Overall, the project is therefore rated satisfactory, although with
continued attention to these weaknesses it might be that this assessment would be
increased to highly satisfactory by any subsequent audit mission.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
17.   The general conclusion is that the project has been highly successful in achieving
its physical implementation targets, increasing yields and incomes and combating poverty
and introducing international standards of technology in agroindustries and aquaculture.
These successes in implementation need to be consolidated by still further emphasis on
the aspects mentioned earlier, namely surface and groundwater resource management,
cotton agronomy, household production responsibility system emphasis, water charges
and realistic pricing of government services.



- x -
18.   Future project operation will benefit from the plans already prepared for the three
project pumping stations and operational guidelines on use of the Wei He (river) waters.
All of these will require regular updating. For future irrigation system O&M, water
charges will need to be reviewed and adjusted to reflect true costs and farrners
encouraged to form water user associations and follow the self-financing irrigation and
drainage district (SIDD) concept.
19.   Key Lessons Learned. The main lessons learned are: (a) although the wide scope
of activities included in the project design was appropriate at the time, future projects
could consider a simpler approach based on water resource development; (b) in order to
ensure sustainability, careful monitoring of water resources and efficient water use for
irrigation are essential, particularly for conservation of groundwater; (c) the household
production responsibility system is of key importance for successful rural development;
(d) investments in agricultural research and extension must be adequate, and channeled
into human resource development and linkages rather than buildings and equipment; (e)
for agroindustries it is essential to involve the private sector and to ensure adoption of
international standards of technology and management training; and (f) experience in the
aquaculture component shows the desirability of a range of focused aquaculture activities,
conservative stocking rates, attention to environmental concerns and sound marketing
strategy.



CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2159-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The Hebei Agricultural Development Project was designed to address persistent
rural poverty and underemployment in 53 of the 130 counties in Hebei through a series of
initiatives aimed at accelerating growth in agricultural production, which had lagged
behind industrial growth through the 1980s. The project's specific objectives were as
follows:
(a)  Strengthlen the Province 's ability to effectively manage its water
resources. Improved management in the southern Heilonggang area was
sought through investments in both improved distribution of surface
waters to assist in groundwater recharge (including floodgates for
storage/distribution, pumping station construction and irrigation district
rehabilitation) and in improved efficiency of use of groundwater (new
wells, well rehabilitation, water-saving pipe for distribution). In the
northeast, the project aimed to assist in wasteland development, flood
control (through floodgates) and water savings by canal lining. The
project also sought to contribute to the strengthening of the overall
water use plan for agriculture and industry in Hebei by emphasizing
water management and monitoring, use of shallow tubewells (rather
than high-quality deep aquifers) and assisting the development of
conjunctive use of water.
(b)  Increase and intenisify productivity of existing low-yield crops and
diversif!; the cropping  pattern. Increased  productivity  in  the
predominantly saline lands to be developed was linked in the project
design to expansion of irrigation and improved input supply (fertilizers,
seeds, mechanization and agrochemicals), as well as the intensification
of rotations to promote orchard development and emphasize winter as
well as summer crops in the predominantly summer rainfall
environment. In areas unsuitable for agricultural production, the project
aimed to rehabilitate and construct shrimp ponds and supporting
feedmills and cold stores, as well as to improve the output of fish and
scallops.



- 2 -
(c)  Promote market analysis as a criterion for increasing production and
improving processing of major commodities.
(d)  Expand agroprocessing activities to rationalize fertilizer production
and make use of agricultural by-products. Agroindustry development
was to emphasize state-of-the-art techiologies and equipment,
particularly  in  rehabilitating  existing  fertilizer  factories  for
monoammonium phosphate (MAP) and urea production, but also for
particle board, pulp and fluting paper manufacture from cotton stalk.
The agroindustries component was linked to aquaculture development
through support for cold stores, feedmills and aquaculture product
processing. It was also linked to livestock development by the
construction of six small slaughterhouses (one in each project
prefecture).
(e)  Promote an effective use of residues in expanding livestock production.
Excess straw from maize and winter cereals is a major agricultural and
environmental problem in Hebei, given the absence of zero or reduced
tillage techniques. Ruminant livestock product demand was growing
quickly at the time of preparation and the project aimed to link
expansion of ruminant livestock production to poverty reduction by
promoting the breeding and fattening of sheep and cattle on a small
scale by individual households. The techniques to be used included both
alfalfa development on saline wastelands and use of ammonification of
straw for nonprotein nitrogen supplementation.
(f)  Strengthen provincial applied research and extension programs for
crops, livestock, aquaculture and water conservancy. The project
sought to strengthen agricultural extension by investments in
infrastructure, equipment and training, particularly at the county,
township and village levels. The emphasis was to be on an integrated
supply of services by the range of bureaus involved at the township and
village levels. Active involvement of national and provincial specialists
in extension was envisaged, particularly in IPM for cotton. Research
investments were to be spread across agriculture, water resources and
aquaculture. In agriculture, topics included cotton agronomy, plant
breeding and irrigation, fruit production and quality, and improved
paddy varieties, water and pesticide application.
2.    The project objectives were clear and based on considerable preparatory work by
IDA and the Borrower, including experienced gained in implementation of the IFAD-
funded Hebei Agricultural Development Project (1983-87). Project design was, therefore,
based on realistic assumptions concerning available techmology for groundwater
development and agricultural modernization. The wide scope of components was



- 3 -
appropriate given the multiple requirements for effective agricultural development in
Hebei at the time of preparation.
3.    The design emphasized efficient water allocation (including conjunctive use of
surface and groundwater) and efficient on-farm use of water, including the use of both
direct project funding and revolving funds to install water-saving distribution pipe rather
than earth canals. Limitations of surface water supply were identified. Appropriate
attention was given to water resource planning, monitoring and management. Design of
the agroprocessing component recognized the need to introduce modem technology in
order to be competitive in international as well as domestic markets. The aquaculture
component was based on the best available knowledge of stocking densities and suitable
species at the time. Problems with support to agricultural machinery stations have only
arisen since the mid-termn review and the extent of support to this activity actually
realized was not envisaged at design. Adequate attention was paid to poverty alleviation
by use of household-based models for livestock breeding and fattening appropriate to
landless households or those with minimal holdings, including technology for improved
utilization of stubbles (a successful feature of the earlier project). The attention to
marketing evident in the design of the agroprocessing component was continued in the
aquaculture component as part of species selection.
4.    The project's objectives thus supported the Bank Group's country assistance
strategy for the agriculture sector, which was designed to support the Government's
efforts to increase and diversify agricultural production through more efficient use of
land, labor and capital resources and through the improvement of support services such as
credit, research and agricultural education.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The project was appraised without major changes to its scope and proposed
investments. The estimated project cost at appraisal was $309 million equivalent,
comprising $150 million as Bank Group assistance, compared to an estimated total cost at
design of $310 million. The credit became effective on September 21, 1990. Early
progress was excellent and 42.5 percent of the credit was disbursed by October 1992,
close to the estimate of 48.5 percent. Compliance with guidelines and accounting
standards were of a high order. Complex designs and international competitive bidding
(ICB) procurement procedures did, however, reduce the early rate of achievement in the
agroprocessing and aquaculture components. A typhoon in scallop production areas in
1992 and shrimp disease infestations from 1992 to 1995 compounded problems with
aquaculture. The agriculture component suffered a severe setback due to bollworm
infestation of cotton during 1992-95. Disbursement slowed during 1993, again due to
slow procurement of machinery and equipment and actual disbursement after the mid-
term review (December 1993) was 63.8 percent (SAR estimate: 82.2 percent) by
February 1994. By mid-1994, however, the groundwater development activities were
largely completed and the overall water resource component was 70 percent complete.
Agroprocessing was 52 percent completed and proceeded to completion by end-1996,



- 4 -
although misprocurement occurred in livestock slaughterhouses owing to faulty
specifications. The major delay in finalization of the Junliu pumping station caused the
project to be extended twice (to December 31, 1997 and June 30, 1998). Final
disbursement of IDA funds was 100 percent, although total p:roject costs ($343 million)
exceeded the original estimate by 10.8 percent.
6.    The project has been generally successful in achieving its engineering objectives
in improving the efficiency of groundwater-based irrigation. As designed, groundwater
irrigation emphasized efficient distribution of water, a limited number of new shallow
wells and intensive monitoring of groundwater levels to ensure sustainability of the
resource. These objectives were generally complied with in t1he use of project funds. A
total of 10,129 wells were drilled (SAR estimate: 9,950) and supplied with 3,535
kilometers (km) of distribution pipe, which benefited about 100,000 ha as per SAR
estimates. However, revolving funds intended mainly for distributary pipe installation on
existing wells were used to rehabilitate and expand the well network. An additional
350,000 ha of irrigation was assisted in this way. A total of 2,072 wells were drilled,
31,070 were replaced and some 70,425 were rehabilitated with revolving funds. Some of
the wells rehabilitated and replaced accessed deep grounclwater and the extent of
rehabilitation demonstrated the use of project funds for deferred maintenance, indicating
that water charges (Y 0.55/kilowatt) were too low to allow adequate maintenance. The
project developed a monitoring mechanism but is not conducting annual updates of the
groundwater map. The performance of the engineering plaining and water resource
management activities was thus less satisfactory. This problem is widespread throughout
the North China Plain.
7.    Achievements in surface irrigation and the development of conjunctive use of
water in the south have been slower than expected, owing to a series of dry years and a
water supply shortfall due to inadequate water-sharing arrangements among river users.
Nevertheless, all structures (three pumping stations and three flood control gates) were
completed. By 1999, it is estimated that the project will have converted 21,332 ha from
dryland to partial surface irrigation. A further 18,355 ha will have been converted from
partial to full irrigation and 142,125 ha converted to full irrigation from dryland. All six
irrigation system upgrades have been completed, although the implementation program
and design of Yinluan irrigation scheme in Qinhuangdao Prefecture was modified and the
scale of irrigation adjacent to Junliu pumping station (Jianz;huang irrigation area) in
Handan City was reduced.
8.    In the northeast, the project was successful in developing more efficient canal
distribution and flood protection for surface irrigation. A total of 14,820 ha of wasteland
was converted to paddy in the Tangshan area. In addition, project water resource
improvements stimulated expansion of irrigated paddy area using private sector funds on
some 5,353 ha in the counties of Fengnan and Tanghai. Reduced flooding as a result of
construction of control gates benefited an additional 570 ha upstream of the project area.
In Qinhuangdao Prefecture, the project exceeded SAR targets of 14,000 ha of expansion
in fully irrigated area by development of 8,000 ha of new lands and rehabilitation of



existing areas totaling 8,019 ha. Improvements included system upgrading by canal
lining, secondary and tertiary system development, drainage and lift pumps and a major
storage and flood control gate.
9.    Estimates of average increases in yield at appraisal were modest and have been
generally exceeded, even by yields under partly irrigated conditions. Yield increase rather
than higher crop intensity has been the main source of benefits from irrigation
improvement. Agricultural development was supported by import of some 94,716 tons of
DAP. The increase from 63,000 tons estimated at appraisal was financed by reductions in
agrochemicals. The targets for seed company rehabilitation and improvement of seed
farms and processing plants were generally met. The cottonseed processing investments
have placed the industry in a position to process and market disease- and pest-resistant
lines as one basis of rejuvenation of the cotton industry, although much more attention to
IPM and crop rotation for disease and pest control is still needed.
10.   Livestock enterprises provided a potentially valuable means of addressing poverty
in the counties. However, actual performance has been somewhat disappointing because
in a number of cases households were grouped into cooperative style units under single
management. Administration and debt repayment accounting was thereby improved but
physical performance has sometimes suffered compared to single household units.
Another major problem with this component has been the quality of feeding.
Ammonification of straw proved financially unattractive after ammonia price increases in
1992. The ammonification plants were reduced from six to two, and even the plant
constructed is largely unused. Residue feeding thus developed in combination with
feeding of fairly low-grade concentrates containing a high proportion of wheat bran.
Actual reproductive and weight gain perfonrnance has thus been lower than expected. The
objective of promoting an effective use of residues by the project has not been met in this
regard by most livestock households, who rely principally on grazing and concentrates
for production.
11.   Benefits to livestock producers have also been reduced by generally declining
beef prices since 1992, particularly in 1996. Mutton and particularly, wool, prices,
although lower than full economic prices, have contributed to attractive returns for sheep
households. Overall, however, the financial performance of livestock has met or exceeded
SAR estimates.
12.   Agricultural extension system improvements met all physical targets in terms of
construction. The project built all eight planned new Agricultural Extension Technical
Centers at the county level and rehabilitated all 45 centers identified at appraisal. The
project also developed 124 new township-level centers and rehabilitated a further 119 as
per targets. The project was responsive to suggestions made during supervision to
purchase laboratory equipment and to expand the range of extension methods used.
Equipment valued at Y 34.494 million was procured and distributed. The procurement
ranged from audiovisual equipment to soil- and water-testing equipment (including
relatively sophisticated items such as neutron probes and water quality test equipment).



- 6 -
Nevertheless, results in terms of productivity increases in Heilonggang have been mixed,
with good extension messages developed in one county often not spreading to even
neighboring counties. In the northeast, with smaller areas, simpler technology, a smaller
range of crops and, most importantly, a willingness to seek out new technology by
extension staff, results have been better. Adoption rates have frequently exceeded 85
percent for single technologies and 60 percent for a packagJe of technology in paddy
areas.
13.   Agricultural research was efficiently conducted and published but its benefits
often did not spread much beyond the source of the informnation. The total investment
represented only 0.45 percent of project funds, considerably less than the goal of 2
percent sought in many Bank Group-financed projects.
14.   The investmenit in ag,ricultural machinery was changecl at the mid-term review to
include support for machinery at Agricultural Machinery Stations, whereas only fuel
supply improvement was included at design. The change has not generally been a success
owing to inadequate charges and resulting poor maintenance and replacement policies. In
some areas, the investment appears to have been used to subsidize an inefficient structure,
which should have been discontinued in favor of privatization of services. In contrast, the
activity appears to have been most successful in the northeast where subcontracting
machinery to contract operators who then hire services to farners has been established.
15.   Orchard enterprises are generally successful but often involve higher-density
plantings than projected in response to greater profits from fruit than grain. The scale of
graii/date intercropping was expanded from a target of 20,000 ha to 33,220 ha and a
further 3,333 ha was rehabilitated, although with little success in terrns of yield benefit.
Household areas appear to have been reduced to about 0.25 ha from SAR estimates of
0.4 ha. New pear orchards totaled 1,700 ha and rehabilitated orchards covered 4,000 ha as
estimated at appraisal. Yields will easily meet SAR targets (35 tons/ha new pear orchard,
2 tons/ha dry date for new date orchard).
16.   The aquaculture component undertook several adjustments to design during
implementation and faced major challenges with disease, a typhoon and water pollution.
It has nevertheless been quite successful. Relationships with Bank Group staff were
always good and suggestions by Bank Group staff, such as subcontracting production
areas to households, were adopted, thus increasing the numbers of beneficiaries and
benefits.
17.   The project financed 3,525 ha of shrimp ponds against 3,752 >a (533 ha new and
3,219 ha rehabilitated) estimated at appraisal. High-density stocking and the occurrence
of white spot virus disease in 1993, however, significantly reduced yields from an
estimated 1.8 to 2.0 tons/ha to 2-300 kg/ha. Density was reduced and Japanese shrimp
were substituted for Chinese White shrimp in three of five counties. The Japanese shrimp
command a premium price when sold live, which has contributed to improved returns.
For the future, consideration will have to be given to adoption of specific pathogen-



- 7 -
resistant stock from specialized hatcheries or the.. adoption of methodologies such as the
Thailand Model, which requires disease prevention methodologies such as water
chlorination and recirculation.
18.   Fish ponds, wlhich adopted the high-production carp model over the whole SAR
estimated area of 716 ha after implementationi in 1991, have been successful and
sustainable. Yields aver-age 11,250 kg/ha. Prices have been stable and provided
acceptable benefits for the households involved.
19.   Scallop production was moved from Funing County to Changli County during
implementation and expanded from an SAR estimate of 2,500 chains of 75 hanging purse
lanterns to 8,000 chains of 100 lanterns. The hatchery has become a multipurpose unit,
producing scallops, shrimp post-larvae and wintering globefish. The yields have ranged
from 800 to 1,200 kg/ha with shell and are considered sustainable. The main concern is
the potential for further deterioration of water quality from "red tide" algal contamination
as a result of industrial pollution, although the project areas have not been affected as yet.
Future designs must include comprehensive water quality monitoring programs, to ensure
production in areas free of major existing or likely pollution.
20.   Terrapin production was added after the mid-term review as an activity for inland
rivers of Gucheng and Gaocheng counties. Gaocheng concentrates on adult production,
while Gucheng emphasizes production of hatchlings. Prices are high (Y 140/kg for
hatchlings, Y 160/ kg for adults) and production varies from 55,000 to 100,000 kg at 100
percent production load.
21.   River crab production was also added during the mid-tenn review. Button crab
and adult crab production areas are complete and the mission was pleased to note the
change to household production systems. Production ranges from 750 to 1,125 kg/ha.
Yields from 800 to 1,000 kg/ha are considered sustainable. T'he project area supports 350
households. Excellent profits are being made but lessons need to be leamed from
Liaoning Province, where narrowing of the genetic base in breeding ponds drastically
reduced productivity.
22.   Feedmills constructed under the project in support of aquaculture have almost
reached appraisal capacity estimates. A total of 980 tons/year is produced at Luannan
compared to 1,000 tons at appraisal and 2,800 tons per year is produced at Tanghai
(rather than Changli) compared to 3,500 tons at appraisal. Further consideration should be
given to construction of a regional feedmill, which could produce high-quality pelleted
feed at lower cost. The Fengan County cold store suffered a series of design changes,
which delayed implementation and drastically increased the debt service requirement, but
the final facility is excellent, with international certification.
23.   After considerable early delays due to poor technical specifications by design
institutes and a lengthy ICB approval and bidding process, agroprocessing was
successfully implemented at both fertilizer plants and the particle board and paper plant.
Work progressed rapidly and to high standards, once contracts were awarded. All plants



- 8 -
reached or exceeded design capacity and specified product quality. Both fertilizer
factories suffered failure of individual components; however, with intervention by IDA,
the foreign suppliers satisfactorily resolved these problems. The project constructedl
rehabilitated 15 cotton seed production ginneries and constructed two acid delinting
plants, although one plant is now operating at less than full capacity and the other is
closed, pending a resumption of production with improved seed in 1999.
24.   The major constraint to operation was found to be the lack of counterpart funds in
provincial agencies for both capital and operating costs. Private sector involvement is
crucial to success. The shortage of counterpart funds delayed slaughterhouse construction
and delays in the ICB specifications and approval process in China and in IDA also
delayed cold store equipment importation. Three of the six plants had to be dropped from
the project and the funds repaid, owing to acceptance of technical specifications well
below agreed standards. The remaining plants are well constructed and equipped and
have excellent cold store facilities.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
25.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Corntrol. The main factors
affecting performance were natural disasters such as the 1992 typhoon, shrimp disease,
cotton bollworm infestation and the delays in procurement due to inferior standards of
design by design institutes and the need to follow ICB bidding procedures. Senior staff
resignations to accept more attractive positions in the private sector during the 1992-93
period also reduced the impact of training and created additional demands on
management.
26.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. Shortages of counterpart
funding delayed implementation of some of the components, and has resulted in
inadequate working capital for others, especially in many agroindustry plants. Inadequate
O&M funding was a factor affecting agricultural extension (fo:r building maintenance)
and irrigation development (owing to inadequate water charges, leading to the use of
revolving funds for deferred maintenance). The delayed release of vehicles during 1993
affected the management capacity of project staff and probably slowed project progress.
The shortage of counterpart funds in provincial and county government companies
involved in agroprocessing delayed implementation and has highlighted the need for
private sector involvement.
27.   Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. The project has
generally been implemented to high management and financial accounting standards with
the exception of a declared misprocurement in livestock slaughterhouses owing to
promulgation of inferior specifications to favor a particular supplier. The problem was
investigated by project management and rectified by reimbursement of expenditures to
IDA.



- 9 -
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   Sustainability of the investments and improvements made by the project is
assessed as likely. Overall, good arrangements have been made for handover of
components for O&M and management to the responsible agencies (as described in
Section H below). Facilities under the project were generally built to high design and
construction standards, and should be able to operate efficiently. During implementation,
the PMO promoted effective training and employment based on qualifications for
management and staff for the various facilities, which should enable efficient operation,
and IDA supervision missions provided specialized technical assistance and training on-
site in specific areas. The PMO also promoted joint ventures for the agroindustry
components, which will provide infusions of both management expertise and operating
capital, and joint venture prospects appear good.
29.   Although project sustainability prospects are in general good, close continued
attention by the provincial govemment will be required to: (a) promote the household
responsibility system in agricultural production; (b) fund O&M adequately through
appropriate, well-researched charges for irrigation water and other services, such as
veterinary services or agricultural machinery, and ensure that service or user charges
reflect the true cost of service supply; (c) establish a strategy for cotton growing that fully
embodies IPM, mitigates cotton growers' production risks, and promotes appropriate
agricultural practices and crop rotation; (d) encourage development of private sector farm
machinery services; and (e) promote government action to control pollution in scallop
production areas.
30.   Regarding the above issues for project sustainability, project management has
emphasized their firm policy and determination to continue to promote the household
production responsibility system as the basis for Hebei's agricultural development. The
new household contracts will be implemented during the current nationwide round of
household responsibility contracting starting from 1999. With regard to cotton production
and the new contracts, the provincial government expects to counteract poor crop rotation
practices by reducing the size of the household responsibility contracts. The smaller
contracts tend to promote more diversified cropping patterns due to household
preferences and risk aversion. Project managements were also concerned to ensure the
long-term sustainability of cotton growing and were promoting intercropping with
vegetables and other green crops as a means of improving fertility and reducing the
proportion of cotton in the rotation.
31.   Adoption of realistic water charges according to source and cost of irrigation
water, introduction of water-saving technology, rationalization of water use in
agriculture, and measures to recharge groundwater are primary goals of the Hebei
Govemment in water resource development. In addition, the government has led and
strongly supported the establishment of the first self-financing irrigation and drainage
district (SIDD) in Hebei at the Junliu pumping station, which is intended to ensure costs



- 10-
are covered, resources are adequate for good O&M and management of facilities, and
retums to investment are improved through better water managernent by farmers.
32.   In the future, project management also expected steadily greater reliance to be
placed on the private sector for provision of agricultural machinery services. The private
sector is now well developed to supply machinery services in the Heilonggang area as
witnessed by the number of private tractor and machinery outlets operating. The
govenment is encouraging further privatization by eliminating subsidies to support
govenment machinery stations, which must now become self-financing.
33.   To help protect scallop production, a pollution monitoring program  was
established in 1998 based on the recommendations of IDA supervision missions. In
addition, the State is initiating the "Blue Sky/Blue Sea Project" to rehabilitate the Bohai
Sea, which aims to reduce pollution in the region and should reduce risks to the project
scallop investments.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
34.   Project Design and Appraisal. IDA  performance was generally highly
satisfactory with considerable care taken in design of both infrastructure and activities
relating to monitoring of water resources and provisions for poverty alleviation. The
components were based on sound experience and IDA was supportive in funding a
follow-i p water resource project, with another planned. Despite concern expressed at
design, however, the pumping stations were included and implernented under the project
and have, as expected, encountered problems with water supply and regulation of riparian
use.
35.   Supervision. Eleven supervision missions were conducted over the seven-year
implementatiorn period, with generally two per year until the mid-term review and one per
year thereafter. An engineer, agroindustries specialist and an economist participated in
most missions, with support from an agnrculturist, aquaculture specialist, specialist
engineers and a livestock specialist as required. Particular attention was given to high
standards of supervision, which was especially helpful in achieving successful
implementation of the agroprocessing component. More attention to supervision of the
livestock and agriculture components, particularly after the mid-term review, might have
improved the quality of implementation of these components, but was constrained by
budget limitations and the fact that they were largely completed by that time.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Borrower performance has been highly satisfactory in pro ject implementation and
compliance with covenants. Project management has paid close attention to the pace of
implementation in most components and shown a ready will[ingness to adopt high
standards of construction. The project management structure fuictioned efficiently and
financial management and monitoring was of a high standard. Some delays occurred due



- 11 -
to lack of counterpart funds in the agroindustries, a lack of familiarity with management
of commercial enterprises and difficulties with IDA procurement procedures. Full
acceptance of the household responsibility system in implementation might have
improved project performance, although impacts on poverty in project areas nevertheless
appear considerable and sustained. Despite assurances at negotiations, new wells in
excess of those agreed were drilled (albeit using project revolving funds rather than credit
funds). Lack of commitment to improving distribution efficiency and inadequate
recognition of the importance of water resource monitoring and management have been
disappointing aspects of borrower perfornance.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.   The project was successful in achieving its major physical construction targets, in
increasing yields and farmer incomes and in introducing international standards of
technology in agroprocessing and aquaculture. These achievements must be followed up
with supporting policies on water pricing (to allow for adequate O&M and replacement)
and with attention to aspects of sustainability of the groundwater resource. It should be
noted that, based on recommendations of IDA supervision missions, the Govemment, on
its own initiative, introduced self-financing irrigation and drainage district (SIDD)
reforms to help deal with these issues. The Government of Hebei has also gained useful
experience in the management and benefits of the household responsibility system, which
needs to be adopted in full in future projects.
38.   Analysis of project impact on farm incomes (Annex C, Appendix 3) shows very
positive effects, in excess of SAR estimates, with incomes from fully irrigated arable
lands increasing by 116 percent in Heilonggang and 150 percent in the northeast
compared to original rainfed conditions. The overall economic rate of return, is
recalculated at 39.7 percent (Annex C, Appendix 6), compared with 32.4 percent at
appraisal.
39.   Overall project outcome at ICR is therefore rated satisfactory and some aspects
were highly satisfactory. Generally, the targets set out at appraisal have been achieved or
surpassed. Nonetheless, despite the commendable energy and competence of project
management in implementation, there still remain some items that present potential
weaknesses for the project and could therefore be considered shortcomings not
adequately dealt with under the project. These have already been mentioned and include
the vulnerability of groundwater to overexploitation; lack of agreement on sharing of
surface water resources; lack of adoption of sustainable cotton-growing practices and
mitigation of cotton farmers' production risks; the need for still greater reliance on the
household production responsibility system; the necessity of encouragement of private
sector farm machinery services; the desirability of developing structured charges for
irrigation water, which reflect the true cost of supply; and the need to increase charges for
veterinary assistance and agricultural machinery charges to cover the cost of their
provision. Depending on the resolution of the above problems, it may be appropriate for
the assessment to be increased to highly satisfactory by any subsequent project audit. In



- 12 -
fairness to the project, however, most of the above problems are endemic to agriculture
projects in China, and reflect more on the stage of Chinese reform and development than
on any particular project.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
40.   Further attention to development of a schedule of O&M  charges and the
encouragement of the self-financing irrigation district concept, based on farmer
organizations, is required. A system of water charges for different classes of water is
needed to allow for cost recovery of O&M, including expenditure on power. For all three
of the project pumping stations a Plan of Operation and Maintenance (POM) has been
prepared and will be updated as required, and a SIDD comprising a water supply
corporation and water user associations was introduced at Junliu. Technical assistance
was provided during the project to set Wei He (River) operational guidelines, minimum
flows past existing pumping stations, and water-sharing arrangements between Handan,
Xingtai and Chahezhui Prefectures, although the issue of other provincial riparians is not
yet resolved. This preliminary work needs to be continually addressed in the early years
of the project operation. Provision of technical advice to farmers and aquatic products
producers and monitoring and evaluation will continue to be provided by the responsible
agencies. Each of the processing plants, and the wholesale market, have provided ample
evidence of their joint sector approach to plant operation and commercial activities that
will provide increasing revenue flows in the coming years.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   A comprehensive approach to design was necessary at the time of preparation of
this project. Nevertheless, the outstanding success in terms of benefits has been the water
resource development component, which underpinned the economic and financial
viability of the project. Given the more advanced state of development in China, future
projects might therefore consider a simpler approach to design based on sound water
resource development and investment to provide a basis for improvement in farm
incomes that would drive private sector implementation of aspects such as mechanization,
livestock development, agroprocessing and input supply.
42.   Sustainability in both technical and environmental terns is a key concern in this
part of China and Hebei will need to give greater attention to monitoring and managing
the use of water by agriculture, commerce and industry. Improved irrigation water
delivery efficiency, particularly in groundwater-based irrigation, must be a priority in
spending on future projects. The needs for improved rural incomes must be balanced
against the environmental cost in all areas.
43.  Individual initiative and incentive have been proven to be keys to success in this
project and in many Bank Group agriculture projects in China. Their full expression
requires a full acceptance of the principles of household responsibility and careful
consideration and limitation of the need to group household models in order to improve



- 13 -
administration. Project planners should avoid the use of project funds for development of
production bases that aim to use industrial production principles in an agricultural
situation. In this project, the production-base concept has been shown to be particularly
inadequate for sustainable cotton production in this project.
44.   Future Bank Group investments in agricultural research should place more
emphasis on the transfer of technology from researchers to extension workers, and on
field-testing of technology. A goal of 2 percent of project funds invested in research is
worthwhile, especially as the needs of agriculture become more sophisticated and
technically demanding. In extension, a greater proportion of funds need to be invested in
personnel development and in development of linkages to research as a technology
provider and a smaller share spent on infrastructure.
45.   Private sector involvement in agroprocessing is vital to supply adequate
counterpart funds and technology and management transfer. Similarly, adequate
operating capital must be assured at appraisal. Adoption of international standards of
technology and adequate management training has been a key reason for success and
must also receive continued attention in future agroprocessing investments.
46.   A successful aquaculture component developed in this project on a broad base
after starting with a narrow range of activities and optimistic expectations of yields and
prices. To ensure stable returns, future investment in aquaculture should be based on a
range of focused aquaculture developments with conservative stocking rates, attention to
environmental pollution hazards, and sound marketing plans.



- 14-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                              X
Sector policies                                        X
Financial objectives                    X
Institutional development               X
Physical objectives                     X
Poverty reduction                       X
Gender issues                                                                      X
Other social objectives                                                            x
Environmental objectives                               X
Public sector management                X
Private sector development                             X
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. IDA Performance                    Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                                      X
Preparation assistance                       X
Appraisal                                    X
Supervision                                  X
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                        X
Implementation                             X
Covenant compliance                        X
Operation (if applicable)                                          X
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



- 15 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose            Approval      Status
Preceding Operations
North China Plain Agriculture        Irrigation Development & Land    FY82     Completed
(Cr. 1261-CHA)                       Improvement
Pi-Shi-Hang Chaohu Area Development  Irrigation & Area Development    FY85     Completed
(Cr. 1606/Ln. 2579-CHA)
Northern Irrigation                  Irrigation Development &        FY88      Completed
(Cr. 1885-CHA)                       Improvement, and Settlement
Gansu Provincial Development         Irrigation & Agriculture        FY88      Completed
(Cr. 1793/Ln. 2812-CHA)              Development
Shaanxi Agriculture Development      Irrigation & Agriculture        FY89      Completed
(Cr. 1997-CHA)                       Development
Following Operations
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification  Irrigation & Agriculture      FY91   To be completed
(Cr. 2556/Ln. 3337-CHA)              Development                                in 12/98
Yangtze Basin Water Resources        Irrigation & Area Development    FY95   To be completed
(Cr. 2710/Ln 2874-CHA)                                                         in 12/2001
Irrigated Agriculture Intensification II    Irrigation & Agriculture  FY98   Implementation
(Cr. 4354-CHA)                       Development                                underway
Water Conservation                   Irrigation Improvement                      Under
preparation
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                              Date planned             Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summnary)                                  Nov 1987
Preappraisal                                                             Jan 10 - Feb 2, 1990
Appraisal                                                              Nov-Dec 1989, Jan 1990
Negotiations                                                                 May 1990
Board presentation                                                          Jun 14, 1990
Signing                                                                      Ju12,1990
Effectiveness                                                               Sep 21, 1990
Mid-term review                                                            Dec 7-18, 1993
Project completion                                                          Jan 31, 1998
Loan closing                                                                Jun30, 1998



- 16 -
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIN11ATE AND ACTUAL
($'())
FY91    FY'92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate           19,000   56,000  101,000  132,000  145,000  150,000
Actual                       28,131    56,744   82,107  107,767  132,642  159,666  162,333  164,928
Actual as % of adjusted         148       101       81        82        91       106       108       110
estinmate
Date of final disbursement                                                                      01/31/98
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1. Key Implementation IndicLaors in      Unit            Estimated       Adjusted         Actual
SAR/President's Report
A. Water conservancy
1. Pumping Station                     Cubic meters/sec          43               33              33
2. Floodgate                                 Unit                  5               5               5
3. Irrigation Scheme                       Hectare            60,3 13         60,313          60,313
4.New Well (Project Funds)                   No.               9,950           9,950          10,129
S. New Well (Revolving Funds)                No.                   0               0           2,072
6. Well rehabilitated (Revolving Funds)      No.                   0               0          70,425
7. Well Replaced (Revolving Funds)           No.                   0               0          31,070
8. Distribution Pipe (Project funds)      Kilometer            3,469           3,469           3,535
9. Distribution Pipe (Revolving Funds)    Kilometer                0               0           3,809
10. Canal Lining                          Kilometer
B. Agriculture
1. Fertilizer                               Tons              63,510          63,510          94,716
2. Pesticides                               Tons                 740             740             340
3. Resin                                     Tons              6,020           6,020           7,145
4. Service Center
New County Center                         No.                   8               8               8
Rehab. County Centers                     No.                 45              45               45
New Township Centers                      No.                 124             124             124
Rehab. Township Centers                   No.                 119             119             119
5. Seeds
Seed Farm                              Tons/year            1,236           1,236           1,236
Seed Company                           Tons/year            6,300           6,300           6,300
Acid Delinting plant                   Tons/year            6,500           3,250           3,250
Cotton Ginnery Rehab.                  Tons/year           12,120          10,694          10,694
6. Machinery Station                         No.                  34              34              34
Fuel Center Storage                       No.                464              139             163
Fuel Pump                                 No.                412              45               83
Tractor 50 hp                             No.                   0               0              38
Tractor 15 hp                             No.                   0               0             213
Tractor 12 hp                             No.                   0               0            439
Combine Harvester                         No.                  0                0              21
7. Fruit Development
New Pears                               Hectare             1,700           1,700           1,700
Rehabilitated Pears                     Hectare             4,000           4,000           4,000
New Date Intercropping                  Hectare            20,000          27,000          33,220
Rehab. Date Intercropping               Hectare             3,333           3,333           3,333



- 17-
1. Key Implementation Indicators in     Unit           Estimated       Adjusted        Actual
SAR/President's Report
C. Livestock
1. Alfalfa Sheep households (52 sheep)      No.              1,775           1,775           1,962
2. Alfalfa Sheep households (20 sheep)      No.                600             840           1,501
3. Sheep fattening (100 sheep)              No.                200             100            119
4. Beef breeding and fattening (4 cattle)   No.                900           2,500           3,516
5. Beef fattening alfalfa (1O cattle)       No.                600             600            691
6. Beef Fattening Crop Residues (10 cattle)  No.               600           1,100           1,187
7. Beef fattening (40 cattle)               No.                160             120            181
8. Ammonification Center                    No.                  6               2              2
9. Slaughterhouse                           No.                  6               6              3
10. Alfalfa planting                      Hectare           16,900          16,900          16,900
D. Aquaculture
1. New Shrimp Ponds                       Hectare              533            533             400
2. Rehab. Shrimp Ponds                    Hectare            3,219           3,125           3,125
3. Fish Ponds                             Hectare              716             716            716
4. Scallop Chains                           No.              2,500           6,000           8,000
5. Scallop Hatchery                         No.                  I               I               I
6. River Crab                             Hectare                0             666.7          666.7
7. Terrapin                               No./year               0         150,000         390,000
8. Fish Feed Mill                           No.                  3               2              2
9.Shrimp feed Mill                       Tons/year           4,500           1,000           1,000
10. Cold store                           Tons/year           1,000            800             800
11. Nurseries                        Cubic meters water      2,000           2,200          2,200
12. Fish Net Plant                         No.                   0               1              1
E. Agroprocessing
1. Shenzhou MAP plant                    Tons/year          30,000          30,000         30,000
2. Weixian Urea Plant                    Tons/year          55,000          55,000          55,000
3. Quzhou Board Mill                  Cubic meters/year     30,000          30,000          30,000
4. Quxian Paper Mill                     Tons/year           10,000         20,000          20,000
F Training
1. Domestic
Agriculture                          Person-day         978,186         978,186        987,811
Forestry                             Person-day         290,715         290,715        340,201
Livestock                            Person-day          39,575          39,575         50,879
Water Conservancy                    Person-day         262,657         262,657        241,873
Aquaculture                           Person-day        329,109         329,109        323,241
2. Overseas
Study Tours                          Person-day                                            975
Training                              Person-day                                          1,455
G. International Technical Assistance
Agroprocessing                        Person-day                                           135
Water Conservancy                     Person-day             42             32              32
H. Research                               Topics                29              29             29
1. Project Management
Management Personnel training        Person-day           3,100           3,100          5,437



- 18 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Item Description                                     SAR Estimated                      Actual for Year 1998
Incr. Area    Yield   Incr. Production Incir. Area  Yield  Incr. Production
('000 ha)   (ton/ha)    ('000 ton)    ('000 ha) (ton/ha)    ('000 ton)
1. Crop
(1) Heilonggang
1. Wheat                                    56.0        4.0            151.2      152.3     5.4           620.0
2. Com                                       34.0       4.0             95.9      117.1     5.3            522.0
3. Cotton                                   125.0       1.1             86.5       23.7     1.1             14.3
4. Beans                                     n.a.       2.0             n.a.       21.1     2.2             31.2
5. Peanut                                    5.0        2.0              4.0        1.3     2.4              0.8
6. Millet                                    n.a.       3.0             n.a.        8.8     4.0              9.6
7. Cabbage                                   2.0       35.0             50.0        1.8    70.0            122.5
(11) Northeast Region
1. Rice                                     16.9        6.5            109.9       16.7     8.2            137.3
2. Wheat                                     4.8        4.2             17.6        9.5    5.65             23.6
3. Com                                       4.4        5.0             10.6        8.6     5.4              3.1
11. Date Intecrop
1. Date Intecrop                            20.0        2.2             44.0     33.23      6.0          199.32
2. Low Production Dates Reha.                n.a.       n.a.            n.a.       3.33     6.3             1.05
Ill. Pear
3. New Pears                                  1.7      35.0             70.0        1.7    60.0           102.00
4. Pears Reha.                               4.0       10.0             40.0        4.0     5.0             20.0
IV. Aquaculture                             Area       Yield   Production (ton)   Area      Yield  Production (ton)
(ha)      (ton)                       (ba)     (ton)
(I) Shrimp
1. New Shrimp Ponds                        400.0        2.0          1,106.0     400.0    0.35             140.0
2. Reha. Shrimp Ponds                     3,219.0       1.8            2,829    3,122.7    0.28            216.0
(11) Fishpond                               716.0       5.25          3,760.0      716.3   12.19          8,838.2
V.                                         (chain)     (kg)          (ton)       (chain)    (kg)        (ton)
(111) Scallop                              2,500.0     500.0.         1,250.0    8,000.0  840.0.          6,720.0
(IV) River-crab                               n.a.       n.a.            n.a.    666.67    1.03.            684.0
VI. Seed                                            Production (ton)                      Production (ton)
1. Heijan Acid Delinting Plant                         n.a.                                1,000
2. Qiuxian Acid Delinting Plant                        n.a.                                 420
VIl. Agriculture Processing
1. Weixian Fertilizer Plant                        53,000.0                              55,000.0
2. Shenzhou MAP Plant                              30,000.0                              106,000.0
3. Quzhou Board Mill                               30,000.0                              30,000.0
4. Qiuxian Paper Mill                               10,000.0                             29,400.0
VIII. Farmers Income                            Yuan (price in 1989/1998)               Yuan (price in 1998)
1. Heilonggang Region Farmers Income              593/1,079.3                            2,334.2
2. Northeast Region Farmners Income                714/1,301                              3,254.7



- 19-
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined
Study                               at appraisallredefmed    Status     Impact of study
1. Water resource control and water       As title         Completed   These 14 studies were
saving                                                   1991-95    highly appreciated by the
2. Use of municipal and industrial        As title         Completed   project authorities and
water return flows for irrigation                        1991-95    proved a successful
3. Impact of field preparation on         As title         Completed   means of introducing and
irrigation efficiency                                    1991 -95    deloignwtco-
ogy related to the devel-
4. Insemination straw manufacture         As title         Completed   opment components
and use                                                  1991-95    financed by the project.
5. Techniques for large-scale artificial  As title         Completed
pasture establishment                                    1991-95
6. Techniques for meat conservation       As title         Completed
at ambient temperatures                                  1991-95
7. Improvement of local sheep and         As title         Completed
goat breeding performance                                1991-95
8. Technology development for sheep       As title         Completed
and goats wool                                           1991-95
9. Techniques for production of lean      As title         Completed
sheep meat                                               1991-95
10. Development of improved prawn         As title         Completed
feed                                                     1991-94
11. Disease prevention in prawn ponds     As title         Completed
1991-94
12. Techniques for Gulf scallop           As title         Completed
production                                               1991-94
13. Development of artificial feed for    As title         Completed
crucian carp                                             1991-94
14. Technique for exotic fish species     As title         Completed
introduction and breeding                                1991-94



- 20 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate                                Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                        Local costs  Foreign costs    Total                Local costs  Foreign costs    Total
A. Water Conservancy            57.00       27.20        84.21                     59.13        34.95        94.08
B. Agriculture                  17.39       42.40        59.80                     22.23        38.41        60.63
C. Farm Machinery                1.06         1.96        3.02                      1.95         1.32         3.27
D. Livestock                    18.30        8.70        27.04                     19.83        14.96        34.79
E. Aquaculture                  18.00        11.80       29.78                     23.34        17.82        41.16
F. Agroindustries               19.60       35.70        55.34                     42.12        56.22        98.34
G. Institutional Development    2.50         0.90         3.36                      9.15         1.13        10.28
Base Costs                  133.90       128.70       262.55                   177.74        164.81      342.55
Physical Contingencies           6.90        7.70         14.61
Price Contingencies             19.60        12.80       32.42
TOTAL                       160.40       149.20       309.58                    177.74       164.81      342.55
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal Estimate                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Source                           Local costs   Foreign costs    Total          Local costs   Foreign costs    Total
IBRD/IDA                             0.8         149.2           150.0            0.00         164.81        164.81
Provincial Govemment                32.0           0.0            32.0           26.26           0.00         26.26
Prefecture/County Govemments        71.6           0.0           71.6            36.85           0.00         36.85
Agricultural Bank of China           13.0          0.0            13.0            12.60          0.00         12.60
Beneficiaries                       43.0           0.0           43.0           102.03           0.00        102.03
TOTAL                            160.4        149.2           309.6           177.74        164.81        342.55



- 21 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Economic Rate of Return Net Present Value @12% at ICR
At ICR     At SAR          Value        % of Total
(%)        (%)          (Y million)      (%)
Heilonggang Field Crops                   59.5        37.4          4,206           82.1
Northeast Field Crops                     40.3        24.3            584           11.4
All field crops                        55.4        34.3           4,790           93.7
Heilonggang Fruit Development             15.3         n.a.            46            0.9
Heilonggang Livestock Development         26.8        33.4            161            3.2
Aquaculture                                7.8        30.4            -54            -1.1
Agroindustries                            16.0         n.a.           187            3.7
Slaughterhouses                           12.4         n.a.             1            0.0
Less ADP Office                                                       -62            -1.2
Total Project                          39.7        32.4           5,111          100.0
Note: A more detailed history of results is given in Annex C, Appendix F, Table 5.



- 22 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original   Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment fulfillment        Description of
Agreement  Section    type      status     date        date              covenant                    Comments
C2.02B     Credit       01        C       10/31/90             Govemment to open and maintain  A special account is open
2.02 (b)                                           special account                and maintained at ABC
PSCH 25   Project      05,10       C                           Submit to IDA by Dec. 31 of each Action plan for 1997
Schedule                                           year a civil works program for the received Dec. 1996
2-5                                                next year
PSC21B    Project       05         C                           Establish and maintain PMO staff PMO staff to be retained
Schedule                                           with function and responsibility   until completion
2-1                                                acceptable to IDA
PSC 22A    Project     03,02       C                           Establish and maintain four    Four revolving funds
Schedule                                           revolving funds                established and maintained
2-2 (a)                                                                           at each county by ABC
PSC 23 A   Project       06        C                           Agrochemicals to be approved by Procurement of fertilizer
Schedule                                           IDA                            now using revolving fund
2- 3 (a)                                                                          and approved by IDA
PSC23 B    Project      06         C                           All project activities to comply    PEPB reviewed all project
Schedule                                           with Provincial environmental    environment- related
2-3 (b)                                            standards                      activities and monitored
implementation
PSC23 C    Project      09         C                           All overseas training and study    IDA assisted in arranging
Schedule                                           tours to be approved by IDA    several study tours
2-3 (c)
PSC23 D    Project      12         C                           No new wells will be drilled until Expansion involved 2072
Schedule                                           final assessment of groundwater   new wells, replacement of
2-3 (d)                                            resources                      31,070 and rehabilitation of
70,425 without annual
groundwater assessment
update
PSC23 E    Project      09        CP                           Results of research be discussed   Project provided copies of
Schedule                                           with IDA                       papers describing all
2-3 (e)                                                                           research under the project to
IDA
PSC23 E    Project      05        CP                           Provide draft operational guideline Technical operating plans
Schedule                                           for new agroindustrial plants  for plants satisfactory;
2-3 (e)                                                                           Problems with financial
plans being resolved by
seeking private sector
partners
PSC27 A    Project      09        CD                           Submit to IDA on June 30 and    Progress brief for first half
Schedule                                           December 31 of each year its    1997 submitted November
2-7 (a)                                            progress report                 1997. Draft completion
report submitted October
1998
PSC27 B    Project      09         C                           Conduct a mid term review      Mid term review conducted
Schedule                                                                          December 1993
2-7 (b)
PS23FG B  Project       06         C      12/31/90   12/31/91  Submit a system to monitor
Schedule                                           effluents from agroprocessing
2-3 (f) &                                          facilities and the design to be
(g)                                                approved by PEPB



- 23 -
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment fulfillment         Description of
Agreement  Section    type       status      date       date                covenant                    Comments
PS26 AB    Project       10        CD                            Revise guidelines for operation    NA
Schedule                                             and maintenance of pumping
2-6 (a) &                                            stations and water charges
(b)
PS28 AB    Project       02        CD                            Resale price of fertilizer and  Fertilizer sold at market
Schedule                                             chemicals to be reviewed by IDA  prices. Proceeds go to
2-8 (a) &                                                                            revolving fund
(b)
Covenant Class:                                                                       Status:
I = Accounts/audits                  8 = Indigenous people                         C    = complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue     9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting        CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 = Project implementation not               CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1-9               NC  = not complied with
funds                           11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resource
5 = Management aspects of the              allocation
project or executing agency     12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement         13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                                        Actual
Stage of project cycle                             Weeks              $                           Weeks              $
Preparation to appraisal                              N.A.                                          N.A.            N.A.
Appraisal                                               28         83,400                              30         89,400
Negotiations through Board approval                   N.A.           N.A.                           N.A.            N.A.
Supervision                                          157.2       502,700                          184.26        589,270
Completion                                               18        86,200                              18         86,200
TOTAL                                            203.2        672,300                          232.26        764,870



- 24 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Num-                  Specialized      Implemen-  Develop-
Stage of         Month/      ber of  Days in        staff skills      tation     mnent               Types of
project cycle       year      Persons  field         represented         status   objectives           Problems
Identification     Sep-Oct 1988     6       14   Economist, Agronomist,                        Surface & groundwater water
Irigation Eng. Agroindus-                       availability
try Spec. Aquaculture                        Household responsibilitv vs.
Spec, Project Analyst                           corporations/collectives
Undue emphasis on cotton
marketing arrangements.
Preparation        Jan 10-Feb 2,    8       21    Economist, Agronomist,                       Information on surface irrigation
1989                      Livestock Spec. Irrigation                       schemes.
Eng. Agroindustry Spec.                      Numbers of delinting plants
Aquaculture Spec. Project                       needed
Analyst Hydrogeologist                       Intergovemment agreements for
sourcing livestock
Interest rates
Local banking arrangements
ICB/NCB procurement
TA for agroindustry
Through appraisal   Nov-Dec 1989,    8      21   Agronomist, Ag.                                Viability of pump stations
Jan 1990                    Economist, Img. Eng.                          Management and technical
Aquaculture Spec, Agro-                         standards of aquaculture
industry Spec. Livestock                     Technical design of agroindustry
Spec,                                           investments
Appraisal  through                                                                             No major problenms
Board approval
Supervision          Oct 1990       5        9    Agronomist, Ag.             I          I     Engineering designs, water
Economist, Irrig. Eng.                          monitoring, linkages between
Aquaculture Spec, Agro-                         PMO and counties, effluent
industry Spec. Chem.                            treatment
Engineer                                     Agroindustry design
Jul 1991      6        7    Agronomist, Ag.             I          I      Procurement delay leading to
Economist, Img. Eng.                            delay in O&M schedule of
Aquaculture Spec, Agro-                         pump stations
industry Spec. Chem.                         Cold store design
Engineer
May 1992       4       13   Agronomist, Ag.              I          I     Good progress except in
Economist, Irmig. Eng. .                        agroindustry.
Livestock Spec.                              Water sharing issues related to
Junliu
Oct 1992       3       9    Ag. Economist,               I         I      Slow progress and poor quality
Aquaculture Spec,                               control in agroindustry
Agroindustry Spec.                           Low yields and slow progress in
cold stores of aquaculture
Dec 1993       5       12   Ag. Economist, Img. Eng.     I         I      Delay in vehicle procurement.
Aquaculture Spec, Agro-                      Bollworm infestation
industry Spec. Livestock                     Shrimp disease
Spec.                                        Loss of trained staff to private
sector
Jul 1994      4        9    Ag. Economist,              S         HS    Devaluation, higher costs shrimp
Aquaculture Spec,                               disease
Agroindustry Spec.                           Expanded agroindustry
Livestock Spec.                                 diversification of aquaculture



- 25 -
Performance Rating
Num-                   Specialized       Implemen-  Develop-
Stage of          Month/       ber of  Days in        staff skills         tation     ment                Types of
project cycle        year       Persons   field         represented          status    objectives           Problems
Jun 1995       5        9    Ag. Economist,l mg. Eng.    HS            S      Instability of PPMO
Aquaculture Spec,                              Poor managernent in fertilizer
Agroindustry Spec.,                                plant
Livestock Spec., Fertilizer                    Unacceptable quality of
Plant Spec.                                        slaughterhouses
Shrimp disease
May 1996        1        8    Aquaculture Spec.             S          S      Decimation of shrimp production
Lack of funds for improved
technology
Sep 1996       2        6    Irrigation Economist          S           S      Financial viability of
Agroindustry Spec                                  agroindustry owing to
inadequate capital
Sep 1996        1       5    img. Eng.                     S           S      Delayed progress on Junliu pump
station
Oct-Nov 1997      2        7    Aquaculture Spec. Inrig.      S          S      Slow progress on Junliu pump
Eng.                                               station
Repairs to fertilizer factories
Lack of funds for pathogen free
shrimp study
Completion          Oct- Nov 1998     5        14   Ag. Economist, lirig. Eng.                      Sustainability of water resources
Aquaculture Spec,                               Lack of acceptance of household
Agroindustry Spec.                                 responsibility system
Agronomist                                     Nonviability of machinery
stations






-27 -                     ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(August 1998)
A. Actual Results of the Project
1.    According to the objectives of the project, the project was started in September
1990 and finished at the end of June 1998. All the objectives have been reached. The
actual realized investment is $342.55 million, being 110.60% of that in the SAR, of
which IDA's fund is $164.808 million and the counterpart fund is $177.74 million.
(a)   Water Conservancy Component: Six irrigation areas have been rebuilt
and eight water storage gates and pumping stations have been completed,
being 100% of those in the SAR, respectively; 10,129 new wells have
been drilled and 10,131,900 meters of underground water-saving pipeline
have been laid, being 102% and 103% of those in the SAR, respectively.
(b)   Agriculture Component: Six seed companies and 21 seed multiplication
farms have been rehabilitated; 15 fine cotton ginning mills and 2 new
sulfuric acid delinting factories have been built; 8 county-level and 124
township-level comprehensive farming technology service centers have
been newly built; 45 county-level and 119 township-level farming
technology service centers have been rebuilt; 17 township-level and 17
village-level agricultural machinery service stations have been improved;
3,000 ha of low-yield date orchards and 4,000 ha of low-yield pear
orchards have been rehabilitated; 1,700 ha of pear orchards have been
newly developed. All figures above are, respectively, 100% of those in the
SAR. Thirty-three thousand hectares of grain-date intercropping have been
developed, being 123% of that in the report. A total of 94,700 tons of
diamnonium phosphate, 7,145 tons of the raw materials for farming plastic
film and 340 tons of pesticide have been purchased, being 149%, 118.7%
and 45.9% of those in the SAR, respectively.
(c)   Animal  Husbandry  Component:  Six  slaughterhouses  and  2
ammonification stations have been built, being 100% and 33% of those in
the SAR, respectively; 9,157 specialized households raising cattle and
sheep have been established, being 130% of those in the SAR.
(d)   Aquaculture Component: Four hundred hectares of shrimp ponds,
716 ha of fish ponds, 666.7 ha of rivercrab culture area, 1 cold storage, 1
shrimp hatchery, 1 shrimp feed mill, 1 fishnet plant and 2 fish feed mills
have been newly built; 3,125 ha of old shrimp ponds have been



- 28 -                      ANNEX A
rehabilitated. All figures above are 100% of those in SAR, respectively.
Eight thousand chains of scallop and 390,000 terrapains have been
cultured, being 133.33% and 260% of those in the SAR, respectively.
(e)   Agricultural Industry Component: One fabricated board factory, I
paper mill and 2 chemical fertilizer plants have been built, being 100% of
those in the SAR, respectively.
(f)    Scientific Research Component: All 29 scientific research subjects have
been accomplished.
B. Evaluation of the Influence of the Project
2.    This is the largest comprehensive development project utilizing the WB loan in
the most extensive scale and scope in Hebei Province, which involved many sectors such
as water conservancy, agriculture, fruit trees, animal husbandry, fishery, agricultural
product processing and covers 54 counties in 8 cities. The implementation of the project
effectively and properly combines agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry and fishery
together, as well as comprehensively combining production, processing, marketing and
services. It not only strengthens the infrastructure construction, but also comprehensively
develops and utilizes the resources so as to promote the science and technology applied to
agriculture. The project has been playing an important role in the development of rural
economy and even in the development of the national economy of Hebei Province.
3.    The implementation of the project brought great comprehensive benefits to the
project area in 1997. The farmner's income and the yields of wheat, corn, soybean, rice,
beef, mutton and scallops have reached or exceeded the objectives in the SAR. After the
implementation of the project, the annual net incomes of the households in the
Heilonggang area increased by 357%, 146% more than that in the SAR (211%); the
annual net incomes of the households in Tang-Qin coastal area increased by 498%, 259%
more than that in the SAR (239%).
4.    In stable production years of this project's lifetime, the increment of grain will be
1,366,000 tons every year with a net value of $118.702 million (as calculated at an
exchange rate of $1 = 8.3 yuan). The details are as follows:
Cotton:      14,300 tons at $26.47 million
Vegetables:  123,000 tons at $3.691 million
Jujube:     200,400 tons at $144.846 million
Pear:        113,000 tons at $ 13.615 million
5.    The crops in total will have a yearly increment of value of $255.81 million. The
aquatic products will have a yearly net value increment of $7.117 million. Animal
husbandry, mainly by increasing the output of beef, mutton, fur, etc., will have a yearly
net value increment of $5.754 million. Agricultural industry and the processing industry
for farm by-products will have a yearly net value increment of $22 133 million.



- 29 -                     ANNEX A
6.    The completion of the water conservancy works has improved irrigation
conditions. The improved and expanded irrigation area reached to 214,000 ha, the basic
conditions for agricultural production have been improved. For example, grain production
in Tangshan and Qinhuangdao areas has increased from 60,000 tons to 243,000 tons,
increasing 305%. The multiple-cropping index has been raised from 115% to 120%. In
the Heilonggang project area, the grain production increased from 391,000 tons to
1,574,000 tons, increasing 302.6%; the multiple-cropping index increased from 135.3%
to 146.2%.
7.    Since the implementation of the agricultural project, a total of 202,000 tons of
improved varieties of seeds have been provided and popularized; the area benefited by
advanced agricultural technology reached to 1,947,000 ha. The coverage of improved
varieties of seeds in the project ares increased from 35% to over 80%. The
implementation of jujube-grain intercropping and the low-yielding orchard rehabilitation
made the fresh jujube output increase from 20,200 tons to 48,700 tons, increasing
141.7%, with the rate of qualified fruits over 90%. Since rehabilitating the low-yield pear
orchards, the pear output increased from 55,200 tons to 92,400 tons,increasing 67.4%,
and the qualified pear rate increased from 60% to 85%.
8.    A large number of cattle and sheep breeding households financed by the project
are no longer in poverty and now they are becoming rich. The average breeding
household's annual income has reached to about 6,258 yuan. This is a good
demonstration to other households.
9.    Since the implementation of the aquaculture component, the land and shallow sea
resources in the project area have been exploited sufficiently. As in Tangshan City, an
accumulated output of 5,000 tons of shrimp, 45,000 tons of freshwater fish and 1,187
tons of river crab with a total gross value of 528 million yuan and a net profit of 158
million yuan were achieved from 1991 to 1997, during which the vertical freshwater fish-
farming technology was used, leading to a yield of over 10 tons per hectare, far exceeding
the estimated objective of 5.25 tons.
10.   Since implementation of the agricultural product processing component, a large
number of backbone enterprises have been built for the development of the agricultural
and rural economy in Hebei Province. By combining farming, processing and marketing
they will play an important role in the development of the rural economy, increasing the
local revenue and income of farmers in Hebei Province and ensuring the sustainability of
economic development of the rural area.
11.   The project has gained exciting achievements in scientific research. For example,
the successful research in prevention and control of jujube tree diseases and pests fills the
blank in this field in our country. The achievement in agricultural machinery research has
gained a national patent and won a gold medal at the 1995 Beijing Invention Exhibition.
After popularization and experimentation in the project area of comprehensive prevention



- 30 -                       ANNEX A
and control of cotton pests on 516,000 mu (34,400 ha) of cotton field area in Guangping
and Weixian counties, the average annual net income is increased by 46,416,300 yuan.
12.   Training was provided separately to specialized production households, county-
level and township-level technicians and farmers, construction units, project office staff
at all levels as required by the project and a good result was achieved. A total of
15,330,000 yuan was invested in training totaling 987,811 person-days and 28.8% of the
trainees are women. Some 330,000 volumes of various technical manuals and books were
issued. The culture and scientific level of the farmers in the project area were greatly
improved.
13.   The project achieved good social benefits. It directly created 510,000 employment
opportunities, of which, 208,500 were for women, about 40.9% of the total. Besides, this
project also promoted the development of farm and sideline products processing and
tertiary industry. Women have been playing an important role in the fields of poutry
raising and management, stock breeding and product processing, etc., and their social
position has been enhanced.
14.   The project also gained good ecological benefits and has a positive effect on the
environment. The salt content in the soil has been decreased and the soil quality has
improved. The construction of water conservancy works not only enlarged the irrigation
area, but also increased the surface water storage and raised the groundwater level.
15.   During implementation of the project, not only the natLural resources and labor
resources in various areas were fully utilized and the unit area output of farm products
raised, but also the regulation of agricultural production structure and rural industrial
structure was reformed. Therefore, the commodity rate has been raised, the added value
to agroproducts has been increased and the comprehensive production ability improved as
well. As a result, both the farmers' income and the local financial revenue have been
increased. Upon the completion of the project, the annual incremental output of grain,
cotton, oil, livestock products and aquatic products are 646,200 tons, 3,400 tons, 72,800
tons (gross weight) and 17,000 tons, respectively. The average annual income of the
households engaged in the project is 2,032 yuan more than that of the farmers outside the
project area in the province.
C. Main Factors Influencing the Project
16.   The active participation of the farmers is the base of successul implementation of
the project.
17.   The effective management of project offices at all levels for the project made
construction of the project succeed.
18.   Aid provided by foreign advisory experts on techniques ensured the quality of key
capital construction works.



-31-                        ANNEX A
D. Sustainability of the Project
19.   The project has begun producing benefits, and more benefits will be made as the
production and operating activities are constantly developed. In order to maintain the
facilities in good condition and amplify the benefits of the project, we will continue to
strengthen the management of the project in the latter period so as to enable the project
make optimum benefits. The strong sustainability of the project depends mainly on the
following factors.
20.   The farm products produced by the project have a huge market in China. Due to
its large population and its present lower per capita consumption of farm products and
their by-products,the demands for farm products and their by-products will be greatly
increased in line with the raising of peoples' living standards and the demand potential in
the domestic market will be very large. At the same time, the demand for farm products
and their by-products in the international market is increasing year by year. In particular,
the marketing amount of shrimp, precious seafood, beef, mutton, date and pear will not
decrease; thus the enthusiasm of farmers will remain.
21.   The components of the project will be formally handed over to the corresponding
authorities like water conservancy, agriculture, forestry, livestock, fishery, chemical
industry and light industry, etc. after they are accepted by the World Bank. The water
conservancy facilities will be managed according to the formulated operation and
maintenance plan to keep a normal production and fully benefit the project area. The
practice of SIDD in the irrigation area of the Junliu pumping station will provide
experience for the operation and maintenance of the project facilities in the irrigation
area, enabling more farmers to participate in the operation and maintenance work.
22.   According to the "Agricultural Technology Popularizing Law of the People's
Republic of China," the county and township agricultural technology popularizing centers
in the project area shall continue to carry out scientific research, test, demonstration, new
technology popularization and consultative service, etc. Newly built seed farms, seed
company, ginning mill and sulfuric acid delinting factory of the project shall continue the
selecting, breeding, inspecting, producing, marketing, popularizing and managing of seed
in line with the "Seed Management Regulations of the People's Republic of China."
23.   It have been proven through practice that the specialized households for raising
animals established in line with the technical standards, regulations, and requirements
worked out for the project as well as the production and operating models can be accepted
by the farmers and adapted to the countryside productivity level in Hebei and possess
vitality.
24.   The fertilizer plants will annually provide 55,000 tons of urea and 30,000 tons of
ammonium phosphate or 80,000-90,000 tons of NPK compound fertilizer to the peasants.
Two light industry plants will increase incomes of local finance and farmers, thus
promoting the development of agricultural production. The Fengnan aquatic product cold
storage, after having been technically upgraded and the personnel trained, has been



- 32 -                       ANNEX A
approved by the National Commodity Inspection and Testing Bureau to be registered in
the United States. These plants will not only bring economic benefit to themselves, but
also will produce great social benefit.
25.   Other counties that have processing mills are all taking such positive measures as
joint ventures, joint cooperation, leasing and usage right auctions to make full use of
these facilities.
26.   As a link for changing traditional agriculture to modem agriculture in Hebei
Province and for speeding up its joining of market agriculture and the international
economy, the project will play an active and promotional role.
E. Contributions of the World Bank
27.   In view of the large investment scale, wide construction area, involvement of
many townships, and the lack of management experience, the World Bank rendered great
assistance in such aspects as funds, information, technical guidance, project management
and operating control, which ensured the project was implemented smoothly. The
governments at all levels and the farmers in the project area are satisfied with the work of
the World Bank in the periods of identification, preparation, evaluation, supervision and
inspection of the projects.
F. Evaluation of the Project
28.   By rough calculation, a net revenue of 27,930 million yuan will be gained from
the project in a period of 20 years as calculated in constant prices of 1998. The financial
internal rate of return of the project will be 45.49% and the economic internal rate of
return 34.01%, reaching the estimated objectives in general, with some targets surpassing
the estimated objectives.
G. Future Operation of the Project
29.   After the project is handed over to the relevent administrative authorities, the
project management offices at different levels will remain the same, but their functions
will be changed, and will mainly concentrate on the operational management of the
proj ect.
30.   The operation style such as contracting with remuneration linked to output, share
cooperation and specialized household management will continue to be adopted in the
production and operation activities of crop farming and animal h[usbantry and this also
includes the maintenence and management of the production facilities.
31.   The enterprises like the agroindustrial enterprise and the farm subsidiary product
processing enterprise will, as independent legal entities, organiize their production,
processing and business activities by taking the sole responsibility for profits or losses,
self-development, self-restriction and self-improvement.



- 33 -                       ANNEX A
32.   In cooperation with the provincial bureau of water conservancy, the provincial
project office will further perfect and popularize the practice of SIDD and establish
farmers' associations of water supply to make the farmers assume responsibility for their
profits and losses, and develop on their own so as to keep the project facilities
functioning constantly.
H. Main Experience and Lessons
33.   The useful experiences worthy to be summed up from this project and used for
reference in the future are mainly in the following aspects:
(a)    The governments at different levels attached great importance to the
project. This is the key of successful implementation of the project. It
proved by facts that many problems can be solved in a timely manner with
the participation and support of the government officers.
(b)   Farmers played an active role in the project activities and the authorities
involved cooperated closely with each other during the implementation of
the project, which is the basis of successful implementation of the project.
(c)    The assistance of the World Bank and the establishment of a stable leading
organization for the construction and management of the project is the
guarantee of successful implementation of the project.
34.   The lessons drawn from the project appraisal and implementation period are
mainly in the following aspects:
(a)    The enterprise's working capital and the interest rate in the construction
period had not been sufficiently estimated during project appraisal.
(b)   Some cities and counties did not have sufficient counterpart funds. In
order to fulfill the construction plan, an additional fund of 2 million yuan
had to be provided by the provincial government.
(c)    During the procurement of materials, supervision must be strengthened on
the execution of the contract.



- 34 -                      ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1. Introduction
1.    A joint World Bank (WB) and FAO/World Bank Co-operative Programme
(FAO/CP)  mission  consisting  of  J.  H.  Weatherhogg  (FAO/CP   Mission
Leader/Economist), W. Price (WB Irrigation Engineer), R. C'hisholm (Agriculturalist,
Consultant), D. Gue (Agro-Industries Specialist, Consultant) and A. Kaelin (Aquaculture
Specialist, Consultant) visited China from 4-28 October' to prepare an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) on the above project. The project staff had already prepared a
first draft of the ICR and two volumes of schedules, one on investment costs and one
setting out the basis for financial analysis of the project components. These have been
very helpful to the mission in provision of data on the implementation and impact of the
project and will provide the basis for the mission's ICR. Following initial briefing and
discussions in Shijazhuang, Messrs. Weatherhogg and Chisholm undertook a programme
of field visits in the Heilonggang project area, visiting the counties of Shenze, Xinji,
Xianxian, Hejian, Dongguang, Wuqiao, Jingxian, Nangong, Ningyin, Weixian,
Guangping and Handan. In the time available they were unable to visit the north-east
coastal area of Tangshan and Qinhuangdao. Messrs. Price, Gue and Kaelin also
completed field visits appropriate to their speciality, including visits to the north-east
coastal areas by Mr. Kaelin. Project staff from Tangshan and Qinhuangdao came to
Shijazhuang on 24 October for a day of discussions with the mission on the project
implementation performance and results in their areas.
2.    This draft Aide-Memoire summarises the findings and preliminary conclusions of
the ICR mission and provides a basis for discussion at the final rneetings in Shijazhuang
and Beijing. In the light of these final discussions and as agreed between Government,
IDA and the mission, the aide memoire will be finalised and attach1ed to the ICR.
3.    The mission wishes to thank the Project Management Office (PMO) and their
staff at all levels, the City and County authorities and staff of the related agencies for the
excellent arrangements made for the mission's visit, for their time given in the
discussions and the information and opinions provided. The mission is also most grateful
for the very generous hospitality provided and the good working relations established.
Period of time spent by the individual mission members in Hebei are as follows: J. H.Weatherhogg; R.Chisholm
14-28 Oct; W.Price 4-12 Oct; D.Gue 4-16 Oct; and A. Kaelin 11-19 Oct.



- 35 -                           ANNEX B
2. Background
4.     Project Origin. Project concept, scope, design and preparation were undertaken
by local teams established at each level from the Province to the County level, under the
overall direction of a Project Leading Group and managed by a Project Office. Overall
project design benefited from experience gained from the Agricultural Development
Project (IFAD Ln. 107-CHA) implemented over the period 1983-87. That project was
part financed by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and closely
related to the IDA financed North China Plain Project (Cr. 1261-CHA). Design also
benefited from inputs by the Beijing University Experiment Station, established at
Quzhou. Project preparation by the local teams started in early 1987 and was assisted by
two mission visits by FAO/CP in autumn 1988 and early 1989. The project was appraised
in 1 989 and the credit became effective on 21 September, 1990. During project
preparation and appraisal the visiting missions reviewed over 30 agro-industry proposals,
of which eventually four factories were included in the project.2
5.     Project objectives were to: (a) strengthen Hebei's ability to effectively manage
its available water resources, (b) increase and intensify productivity of low-yielding crops
and diversify the cropping pattern, (c) promote market analysis as a criterion for
increasing production and improving processing of major commodities, (d) expand agro-
processing activities to rationalise fertiliser production and make use of agricultural by-
products, (e) promote an effective use of crop residues in expanding livestock production
and (f) strengthen provincial applied research and extension programmes for crops,
livestock, aquaculture and water conservancy.
6.     Covenants were limited and well focused on (a) establishment of a special
account and four revolving funds (for wells and water-saving pipes; agricultural inputs;
farm machinery; and livestock activities); (b) environmental aspects (particularly effluent
control from agro-industries and approval of agro-chemicals); (c) operational guidelines
for pumping stations and agro-industries; and (d) reporting on water charges for surface
irrigation, annual project progress, and resale prices of imported fertiliser and pesticides.
7.     Project Organisation. Under the Government of Hebei, the provincial Project
Leading Group (PLG), headed by the Vice-Governor, has been responsible for co-
ordination of concerned departments. Guided by the PLG the project has been
implemented and managed by the Project Management Office, established at provincial,
city and county levels. Technical support has been provided by the appropriate technical
2   These were Weixian Paper Mill, Quzhou Particle Board Mill, Weixian Urea Plant and Shenxian (now named
Shenzhou) Monoammonium Phosphate (MAP) Plant. During the first year of the project, Weixian withdrew
their paper mill proposal, which was taken up by Quxian. In addition, the project also financed the construction/
rehabilitation of 15 cotton seed mills and two acid delinting cotton seed plants. Out of original proposals for
nine small slaughterhouses, six were proceeded with, but of these three were completed and the other three
constructed but deleted from the project due to inferior equipment.



- 36 -                       ANNEX B
departments, and design institutes contracted for the agro-industries components. The
Agriculture and Economic Crop Research Institute of the Hebei Academy of Agricultural
Science (HAAS) and the Institute of Rural Economy of the Hebei Academy of Social
Sciences (HASS) have provided guidance and assistance in project monitoring and
evaluation.
8.    Project implementation got off to a very good start with pre-credit effectiveness
expenditures of about Y131 million to be retroactively financed, rapid appointment of
PMO staff and development of implementation and managernent procedures. A mid-term
review in 1993 led to IDA approval of adjustments to project design on 31 July, 1995.
These were relatively minor changes, involving some adjustment and increase in the
aquaculture, agro-industries,3 agriculture and livestock development components. Other
changes made during implementation were reduction in the size of the Junliu pumping
station, reduction in the size of the straw ammoniation component and adjustments to the
aquaculture and agro-industries components. Overall project implementation proceeded
well with the exception of the Junliu pumping station, delayed by uncertainty over water
availability, since no formal inter-provincial agreement on water sharing exists. This
resulted in the need for redesign of the station at aa lower capacity, with consequent
delay.Also there was slower than anticipated construction and start-up of the agro-
industries components, due to a combination of some redesigning, delays in international
procurement and under capitalisation; and slower than expected progress in aquaculture
development due to the need for design changes to combat disease problems. Despite the
fact that the majority of project works were complete by the original 31 December, 1996
closing date, credit closing was therefore twice extended, initially to end December, 1997
and finally to end June, 1998.
3. Mission Findings
9.    Water Conservancy. The main feature of implementation has been the
considerable increase in irrigated area funded directly or indirectly by the proj'ect
compared to appraisal estimates. Direct project funding has resulted in an increase of
some 213,000 ha in irrigated area.
10.   A substantial proportion (more than one-third) of the approximately 300,000 wells
existing at appraisal in the Heilonggang area were rehabilitated or replaced in addition to
slightly exceeding appraisal targets for new wells (10,129 drilled against 9,550 at
appraisal). The revolving funds were intended for use mainly for provision of water
saving pipes from well to field ditches or hosepipes. Using revolving funds, some 31,070
new wells were drilled to replace inoperable wells, 2,072 new wells were drilled (without
piped supply) and a further 70,425 wells rehabilitated. Some 10,583 wells were retrofitted
with pipe systems.
3   These were inclusion of the Gao Cheng Wholesale Market and expansion of the Quxian Paper Mill.



- 37 -                      ANNEXB
11.   Despite assurances from project staff, the mission is concerned at the effect of
these additional interventions on the groundwater balance. Although many more
observation wells are being monitored, there is no indication of an annual update of the
contour groundwater map or the implementation of a management system to address
falling groundwater levels. Over pumping of wells is a concern. Moreover, despite the
emphasis at appraisal on the need to increase efficiency of irrigation rather than drilling
new wells, some 80,000 km of water saving pipe remains to be installed on existing wells
outside the project area.
12.   During  implementation  the project has upgraded  wells accessing  deep
groundwater, as seen in the Wexian/Guangping area. Project staff maintain that the
practice is acceptable since the stated policy is only to develop no new deep wells. In
improving deep wells, however, the project has not set a good example of adherence to
the water resources development plan. Nevertheless, the project completed a water
conservancy study in the Weixian/Guangping area covering 273,000ha which found that
over a three year period project actions had resulted in water savings of 105 million cubic
metres and net revenue of Y151 million.
13.   A further concern of the mission is the lack of a riparian water user rights system
in Hebei to protect the interests of agriculture in the face of upstream
industrial/commercial development, particularly since current water policy allocates all
deep groundwater to industrial/commercial use. The impact on project investments has
been seen in (i) the tendency to drill more wells in the face of inadequate water for
surface irrigation and (ii) the major shortage of water in the Wei He river, particularly for
the Junliu pumping station, but also for the Chahezui and Nanlizhuang pumping stations.
These stations were intended to supply water for irrigation and groundwater recharge, but
Junliu has already been reduced in design flow capacity from 25 to 15 cumecs. All of the
stations are nevertheless in operation but still require the development of a system of
charging for water according to use which would provide adequate 0 & M funding,
including water charges for well users.
14.   Installation of storage gates on major drains for groundwater recharge has
provided a useful contribution to the improvement of conjunctive use practices. Four
gates in the Heilonggang area and one in Qingquandao Prefecture have been completed as
per SAR estimates.
15.   All six  irrigation  system  upgrades have been completed  although the
implementation programme and design of Yiluan irrigation scheme in Qingquandao
Prefecture was modified and the scale of irrigation adjacent to Junliu pumping station (
Jianzhuang irrigation area) in Handan City was reduced.
16.   Agricultural Development. The project supported an expansion of irrigation in
the Heilonggang area by approximately 100,000 ha as a result of new wells and
underground pipe delivery systems and retro fitting of pipe to existing wells. Expansion
of surface irrigation as a result of the installation of pumping systems and storage gates



- 38 -                       ANNEX B
and irrigation system upgrading added a further 76,400 ha. In addition, however, an
estimated 370,000 ha of annual crop benefited from well rehabilitation/replacement and
installation of pipe delivery systems using revolving funds. The total area of irrigation
developed thus considerably exceeded the SAR target of 192,000 ha, although surface
irrigated area is slightly lower than SAR estimates. Irrigation system efficiency also
benefited from the introduction of plastic flume delivery systems in some areas.
17.   In the Northeast, project funds were used to develop new paddy irrigation on
14,820 ha of wasteland in Tangshan prefecture as per the appraisal target. Yields met
SAR targets of 6.8 t/ha in 1991 and reached 7.2 t/ha in 1995. In addition, however,
project water resources improvements stimulated expansion of irrigated paddy area using
private sector funds by some 5,353 ha in the counties of Fengnan and Tanghai. Reduced
flooding as a result of construction of control gates benefited an additional 570 ha
upstream of the project area. In Qinhuangdao Prefecture, the project exceeded SAR
targets of 14,000 ha of expansion in fully irrigated area by dJevelopment of 8,000 ha of
new lands and rehabilitation of existing areas totalling 8,019 ha.
18.   Livestock enterprises provide a potentially valuable means of addressing poverty
in counties; however, the actual performance has been somewhat disappointing for
several reasons. Although more small scale and less large-scale household models for
beef cattle and sheep breeding and fattening were adopted than projected at either
appraisal or mid-termn review, the project has often aggregated households into co-
operative style units under single management. Administration and debt repayment
accounting was thereby improved but physical performance has sometimes suffered
compared to single household units. Production units inspected in the field did not
appear, for example, to be achieving the projected benefits in terns of reproductive rates,
probably because of low protein intake. Staff in the larger units have less individual
incentive than single owners, and management often appears to focus on minimum cost
feeding when the product prices available, even after declines since 1991, are still high by
world standards and would support better nutritional standards.
19.   Research and animal breeding support activities have been implemented to high
standards, although extension support might have been more active in promoting better
feeding practices such as urea supplementation in place of ammoniation, which proved to
be financially unattractive.
20.   Orchard enterprises are generally successful but often involve higher density
plantings than projected in response to greater profits from fruit than grain. The scale of
grain/date intercropping was expanded from a target of 20,000 ha to 33,220 ha and a
further 3,333 ha was rehabilitated, although with little success in terms of yield benefit.
Household areas appear to have been reduced to about 0.25 ha from SAR estimates of 0.4
ha. New pear orchards totalled 1,700 ha and rehabilitated orchards covered 4,000 ha as
estimated at appraisal. Yields will meet SAR targets (35 t/ha new pear orchard, 2 t/ha dry
date for new date orchard) easily, but may not reach more optimistic estimates given to
the mission such as 60 t/ha for pear.



- 39 -                     ANNEX B
21.   Inputs. Agricultural development was supported by import of some 95,000 tons
of DAP. The increase from 63,000 tons estimated at appraisal was financed by reductions
in agro-chemicals. The targets for seed company rehabilitation and improvement of seed
farms and processing plants were generally met. The cottonseed processing investments
have placed the industry in a position to process and market disease and pest resistant
lines as one basis of rejuvenation of the cotton industry, although much more attention to
integrated pest management and crop rotation for disease and pest control is still needed.
22.   Agricultural extension system improvements met all physical targets in terms of
construction. The project was responsive to suggestions made during supervision to
purchase laboratory equipment and to expand the range of extension methods used. In the
Northeast, surveys of effectiveness in paddy production technology have revealed very
high rates of adoption. In the Heilonggang area, however, the investments in buildings
and equipment have only served to increase the numbers trained by traditional methods
without facilitating more modem participatory approaches to extension. Development and
adoption of new technology in this area has been mixed and has often been restricted to
county boundaries, even when good technology for pressing problems such as pest
control in cotton was available in a neighbouring county.
23.   The productivity of agriculture in Heilionggang project areas has, in the mission's
view, sometimes been reduced by the use of project funds to develop production bases
using centralised management, particularly in the cotton industry, where inappropriate
technology and rotations and reduced individual incentive have reduced output compared
to single households.
24.   Agricultural research was conducted efficiently on a wide range of relevant
topics and the results have been reported and made available. Project staff stated that
research topics and results were generally practical and applicable. Actual investment met
SAR targets but amounted to only 0.45% of the total project expenditure.
25.   Agricultural machinery investments appear to have been most successful in the
Northeast where a sound basis for subcontracting machinery to contract operators who
then hire services to farmers has been established. Maintenance and replacement costs
have been allowed for in such contracts. In the Heilonggang area, however, the
machinery stations visited were generally a poor example to farmers in terms of
equipment maintenance and had not allowed for machine replacement. Equipment was
used well beyond its useful life. The investment appears to have been used to subsidise
services, which should have been supplied by the private sector.
26.   Aquaculture  investments  underwent  several  design  changes  during
implementation and faced major challenges with disease, a typhoon and water pollution.
It has nevertheless been quite successful. Relationships with Bank staff were always good
and suggestions by Bank staff such as subcontracting production areas to households
were adopted, thus increasing the numbers of beneficiaries.



- 40 -                     ANNEX B
27.   The project financed 3,515 ha of shrimp ponds against 3,752 ha (533 ha new and
3,219 ha rehabilitated) estimated at appraisal. Production was affected by a typhoon in
1992. However, high-density stocking and the occurrence of white spot virus disease in
1993 significantly reduced yields from an estimated 1.8-2.0 tlha to 2-300 kg/ha. Density
was reduced and Japanese shrimp were substituted for Chinese White shrimp in three of
five counties. The Japanese shrimp command a premium price (Y60-80/kg compared to
Y25-45/kg for Chinese White) when sold live, which has contributed to improved
returns. For the future, consideration will have to be given to adoption of Specific
Pathogen Resistant stock from specialised hatcheries or the adoption of methodologies
such as the Thailand Model, which require disease prevention methodologies such as
chlorination and recirculation.
28.   Fish ponds, which adopted the high production carp rnodel over the whole SAR
estimated area of 716 ha after implementation in 1991, have been successful and
sustainable. Yields average 11,250 kg/ha. Prices have been stable and provided
acceptable benefits for the households involved.
29.   Scallop production was moved from Funing County to Changli County during
implementation and expanded from an SAR estimate of 2,500 chains of 75 hanging purse
lanterns to 8,000 chains of 100 lanterns. The hatchery has become a multipurpose unit,
producing scallops, shrimp post-larvae and wintering globefish. The yields have ranged
from 800-1,200 kg/ha with shell and appear sustainable. The mission was concerned at
the further deterioration of water quality from "red tide" algae contamination due to
pollution and regards the project areas as fortunate in not having been affected as yet.
Future designs must include comprehensive water quality monitoring programmes to
emphasise production in areas free of major existing or likely pollution.
30.   Terrapin production was added as an activity after mid-term review for inland
rivers of Guocheng and Gaocheng counties. Gaocheng concentrates on adult production,
whilst Guocheng emphasises production of hatchlings. Prices are high (Y140/kg for
hatchlings, Y160/ kg for adults) and production varies from 55,000 to 100,000 kg at
100% production load.
31.   River Crab production was also added during mid-term review. Button crab and
adult production areas are complete and the mission was pleased to note the change to
household production systems. Production ranges from 750 to 1,125 kg/ha. Yields from
800 to 1,000 kg/ha appear sustainable. The project area supports 350 households. The
mission notes excellent profits are being made but stresses that lessons need to be learned
from Liaoning Province, where narrowing of the genetic base in breeding ponds
drastically reduced productivity.
32.   Feedmills constructed under the project in support of aquaculture have almost
reached appraisal capacity estimates. A total of 980 tons/annum is produced at Luannan
compared to 1,000 tons at appraisal and 2,800 tons per annum is produced at Tanghai
(rather than Changli) compared to 3,500 tons at appraisal. The Fengan County cold store



-41-                          ANNEX B
suffered a series of design changes, which delayed implementation and drastically
increased the debt service requirement, but the final structure is an excellent facility with
international certification.
33.   Agro-industries sub-components for fertilisers, paper and particle board were
well selected with the exception of Weixian Papermill where the community could not
raise the requisite counterpart funding. Well prepared plant designs included equipment
to good international standards and all four of the main processing plants have found
commercial partners, or are in the process of becoming limited liability companies. There
is therefore a sound basis for future commercial success.
34.   Implementation was delayed at all four plants for both technical and financial
reasons. Counterpart funding and working capital were difficult to raise at county level,
and substantially delayed the award of NCB civil works and equipment contracts. ICB
bidding was slower than anticipated involving: (a) some poorly prepared technical
specifications by Design Institutes, (b) lengthy ICB document revision and approval
procedures at all levels of authority within China, (c) revision and approval of ICB
bidding documents by IDA, (d) lengthy bid evaluation system and approval within China,
and clarification and revisions by IDA. In most instances ICB bidding was not achieved
in less than one year from first completion of the draft bidding documents. The main
cause of these delays was the poor standard of technical specification prepared by some
design institutes. This resulted in the IDA supervision missions preparing standard
technical specifications for the project to follow, and subsequent ICB's moved faster
through the system.
35.   Implementation of the four plants has been well managed and work at site
progressed rapidly and to a high standard, once contracts had been awarded. All plants
were commissioned and reached (or exceeded) their designed capacity and specified
product quality, and no operational problems were experienced in the early months of
production. The technology level at each processing plant is to a very high standard and
staff training has been a necessary and successful activity. Shenzhou MAP and Weixian
urea plants have each suffered failure of individual items of equipment provided by the
foreign supplier, but in both cases these difficulties have been satisfactorily resolved,
although both factories lost several months of processing output.
36.   The project constructed/rehabilitated 15 cotton seed mills and constructed two
acid delinting plants.4 However due to the cotton pest problems these facilities are at
present closed or operating at very low levels. The Hejian acid delinting plant suffered
from the decline in cotton area in the county from 400,000 mu in 1988 to only 6,000 mu
4   One at Hejian, originally planned for Nanpi and reduced in capacity from 3 to 1.5 tons/hour and the other at
Quxian, also of 1.5 tons/hour capacity.



- 42 -                       ANNEX B
in 1997. Seed sales declined to 70 tons in 1995 and the plant closed down. Both plants
hope to restart with production of pest resistant seed in 1999.
37.   Slaughterhouse construction by the project was intended to provide quite small
facilities (capacity of 110 pigs per day or equivalent cattle/sheep) in the production areas
and this concept appears sound. Construction, equipping and start-up were delayed by (a)
shortage of counterpart funding and shortage of working capital, and (b) slow progress in
NCB and ICB procurement, particularly of imported cold-stores. Equipment for three of
the six plants constructed was well below the agreed specifications, with the result that
these facilities have been dropped from the project and the equipment cost repaid to IDA.
The remaining three plants are all in the process of forming partnerships which should
ensure adequate capitalisation and assist their profitable operation. The three plants are
well constructed and equipped and all six slaughterhouses have excellent cold store
facilities. Those belonging to the three plants dropped from the project are being rented
out to local traders for meat, fish and vegetable storage.
38.   Borrower performance was satisfactory, with  attention  to the pace of
implementation in most components and a willingness to adopt high standards of
construction. Some delays occurred due to lack of counterpart funds and to difficulties
with Bank procurement procedure, as well as sometimes poor preparation of
specifications by design institutes. Full acceptance of the household responsibility system
in implementation might have improved project performance, although impacts on
poverty in project areas nevertheless appear considerable and sustained.
39.   Bank performance has generally been satisfactory in preparation, appraisal and
supervision, although more attention to supervision of livestock and agriculture
components, particularly after mid-term review, may have assisted the quality of
implementation. In relation to agro-industries the provision of technical advice and
guidance at key periods of implementation, particularly concerning process plant design,
equipment specification and procurement and commercial and operational guidance in
getting the factories into profitable production were helpful. Bank recommendations to
commercialise the companies, and in finding partners to take equity in the plants and
provide financial and commercial strength to the enterprises, has been particularly
effective. The Bank was supportive in funding preparation of a follow-up water resources
proj ect.
40.   Donor/borrower relationship has been satisfactory in most aspects, with both
parties demonstrating willingness to accept reasonable dialogue on substantive matters of
design and implementation.
41.   Implementing agency performance has been satisfactory as seen in the extent of
achievement and over achievement of targets. The relationships between the
implementing Bureaux of Agriculture and Water Resources improved during
implementation, possibly under guidance of the leading Group. Nevertheless, the
sustainability of water resources and the improvement of irrigation efficiency, by



- 43 -                      ANNEX B
adjusting the spending of revolving funds, might have received greater attention.
Financial management standards have been very high and intensive management and
leverage of funds has undoubtedly multiplied benefits. The PMO has been particularly
active in implementation and follow-up of procurement and training, and in providing the
Bank with clear data and reports during supervision missions. The quality and
performance of their work has been good, and an important aspect has been the stability
of the counterpart team.
42.   Environmental aspects. The major environmental problem faced by the project
is the sustainability of the groundwater resource under pressure from agriculture as a
result of new well drilling. A comprehensive water resources monitoring and
management plan, covering industry and agriculture and respected by all participants,
remains a pressing need for Hebei. Most of the project benefits are derived from irrigated
area expansion. Unfortunately, the PMO has not supported improvement in irrigation
efficiency compared to expansion of well numbers, by provision of distribution pipeline,
to the extent envisaged at appraisal. Future investments should emphasise not only
pipeline distribution to risers but also the use of flumes or hosepipes in place of field
ditches.
43.   Wasteland development utilising water resources developed by the project in
Tangshan Prefecture has the potential to convert a further 2,000 ha of wetland to
agriculture, leaving about 600ha of the original 10,000 ha of wetlands remaining.
Prefecture planning will need to carefully consider the environmental risks of any
development proposal as well as the agricultural benefits before embarking on any future
expansion.
44.   Even if environmental benefits accrue from lower pesticide use on insect resistant
cotton varieties in the short term, they may prove short lived, since in other areas where
pest resistant cotton has been used, the number of sprays required has inevitably
increased over time. The extension staff in cotton areas should regard pest resistant
varieties as an interim measure giving time to further develop and extend sound
integrated pest management practice. The IPM research at Guangping Cotton Research
Institute should be widely adopted by extension staff and farmers at all levels.
45.   The mission is pleased to note positive impacts of reduced soil salinity and
improved tree cover in project areas due to the adoption of orchard intercropping systems
in grain production areas.
46.   11 agro-industry plants have environmental control systems approved and tested by
the Hebei Environmental Protection Bureau (HEPB) which meet the standards required.
47.   Sustainability. Several factors pose problems for sustainability of project
components. The mission has the impression that there might be some reluctance by
county and township project offices, in some cases, to fully accept the household
production responsibility system. The mission realises that true household responsibility
systems involve many small production units, which are not easy to monitor or manage.



- 44 -                       ANNEXB
They have nevertheless proven to be more productive than large collective enterprises for
agricultural production, over many years of experience by the World Bank in China. The
problem was noted particularly in animal husbandry and cotton production.
48.   Funding of operation and maintenance by appropriate, realistically calculated
charges is yet to be developed for some activities. These include:
* veterinary charges ( currently a flat fee of Y4 per household),
* irrigation fees for the water from Junliu and other pumping stations
*  electricity charges for groundwater based inigation (currently YO.055 per
KIWhr) are too low, as evidenced by the large proportion requiring
rehabilitation using IDA funds rather than regular O&M fee contributions.
Higher fees for groundwater based irrigation are also needed to encourage
adoption of water saving practices such as water saving underground pipe
and plastic flume for field distribution.
49.   Poor rotation practices, including areas where cotton production is planned to
continue for the next 10 years, reflect little credit on exteTnsion staff and planners who
have just come through a major crisis in the cotton industry. The production system being
adopted, with almost total reliance on one variety, is highly unstable. Continuous cotton
culture also threatens a disease build up and a deterioration of soil quality, particularly
since livestock are not well integrated into many of the farm:ing systems involved.
50.   Sustainability of many of the agricultural machinery stations is still a concern
after 10 years of project experience. Maintenance and replacement of equipment are a
continuing problem. The private sector is now well developed to supply machinery
services in the Heilonggang area as witnessed by the number of private tractor and
machinery outlets operating. Further privatisation should be encouraged by reduction of
emphasis on support to machinery stations, in future projects.
51.   The sustainability of scallop production  areas is seriously threatened by
environmental pollution in production areas. Given that dialogue with all the industries
acting as sources of the pollution is probably impossible, a monitoring programme is
required to enable households to anticipate disastrous pollution events which would
prevent sales of product due to health concerns.
52.   Sustainability of the four factories and three slaughterhouses completed by the
project appears likely since they are well built and equipped and are all either already
joint ventures, or are in the process of forming partnerships and converting themselves
into commercial, limited liability companies.
53.   Project Operations Plan. Further attention to development of a schedule of 0 &
M charges and the encouragement of the self financing irrigation district concept, based
on farrner organisations, is required. A system of water charges for different classes of
water (i.e. surface/gravity; Wei river pumping; and well extraction) is needed to allow for



- 45 -                      ANNEX B
cost recovery of operation and maintenance, including expenditure on power. For all
three of the project pumping stations a Plan of Operation and Maintenance (POM) has
been prepared and will be updated as required. Technical assistance was provided during
the project to set Wei He (River) operational guidelines, minimum flows past existing
pumping stations, and water sharing arrangements between Handan, Xingtai and
Chahezhui Prefectures. This preliminary work needs to be continually addressed in the
early years of the project operation. Provision of technical advice to farmers and aquatic
products producers and M&E will continue to be provided by the responsible agencies.
Each of the processing plants, and the wholesale market, have provided ample evidence
of their Joint Sector approach to plant operation and commercial activities that will
provide increasing revenue flows in the coming years.
4. Lessons Learned
54.   Based on its work so far, the mission's provisional list of lessons learned as a
result of project implementation experience are as follows:
(i)  The need for administrative efficiency in a project as comprehensive in design as
the Hebei ADP, has to be balanced against those of technical and financial
performance when implementing components, particularly where household models
are to be used. Individual initiative and incentive have been proven to be keys to
success in many Bank projects in China. They require a full acceptance of the
principles of household responsibility and caution against grouping of household
models.
(ii) Despite the considerable pressure to improve rural household incomes,
sustainability of water resources is a key concern. Hebei will need to give greater
attention to monitoring and managing the use of water by agriculture, commerce
and industry if project benefits are to be sustained. Improved irrigation efficiency,
particularly in well based irrigation, must be a priority investment in future projects.
(iii) The mission is concerned that some of the project investments in rehabilitation/
replacement of irrigation facilities financed by revolving funds may represent
deferred maintenance. Inadequate water and particularly, power, charges have
placed unnecessary reliance on Bank funds for rehabilitation. A review of such
charges, particularly for groundwater based irrigation is also justified on the basis
of increasing the incentive to adopt more efficient irrigation methods and to
promote more regional and cross-prefectural cooperation in conjunctive water use
management.
(iv) The adoption of improved agricultural practices has been greatest where extension
workers placed priority on accessing and adapting improved, yet simple technology
to increase yields and reduce costs. Future Bank investments in agricultural
extension should require a plan at each level of implementation. The plan should
detail the linkages to be formed with co-operating institutions to improve the access



- 46 -                       ANNEX B
to better technology, the adaptive demonstration work required and the funding
needs for domestic and other technical assistance, training and study tours
specifically related to extension needs. Project staff have stated explicitly that
expenditure on this type of activity should be at least 25% of extension outlays.
(v) The adoption of international competitive bidding and the associated standards of
construction  in  agro-industry  components  has  delayed  implementation.
Nevertheless, the results in terms of the quality of facilities, their lower
maintenance costs and the ability to obtain international certification, well justify
the effort. Careful attention to marketing and to management structures has also
contributed to success. The project is a mode:l for future agro-processing
investments in this regard.
5. Follow-Up
55.   The mission will prepare an ICR report, which will be sent to the World Bank by
mid-December 1998. The ICR includes a Part II section which presents a review of
implementation performance and results from the Borrower's perspective. A guideline on
the preparation of Part II is presented in Attachment I.
Rome,
24 November, 1998



- 47 -                      ANNEX B
Attachment I: Guidance on Government's Contribution to the ICR
Government's own final evaluation of the project implementation is an important
part of the ICR. It is attached, unedited, to the ICR sent to the World Bank Board. It can
be selective in its coverage and should address issues and lessons learned in project
implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics covered can be the same as in
the ICR, namely project design, appraisal, implementation and project results. At each
stage of the project, the contribution should comment on both IDA and the implementing
agencies' performances, with the observations, where possible, supported by evidence or
reasoned argument.
For project design the contribution could address such questions as the
appropriateness of the project's objectives, the size of the project and the scope of the
investments proposed, aspects of design leading to easy (or difficult) implementation and
the effect on government institutions.
For project appraisal, comments should concentrate on any significant changes
in the objectives, size and scope of the project and whether these were appropriate.
Project implementation experience should be divided into an assessment of IDA
performance in supporting and supervising the project and the performance of the
implementing agencies.
Project results include both an assessment of the direct physical benefits leading
to financial and economic benefits (or disbenefits) arising from the project. Since
financial and economic re-analysis of the project will be undertaken as part of the ICR, it
is suggested, if Government so wishes, that the contribution could most usefully
comment on overall impact of the project from the Government's perspective. Such an
analysis would be a most useful contribution to the ICR.
Based on the foregoing sections, the contribution should list the main lessons
learned from the implementation experience and arising from the above analysis.
WB suggest that if the contribution is more than ten pages it should include a
summary. The latter is recommended for all but the shortest contributions.
The mission will be happy to provide any further elaboration or clarification
required to assist in preparation of the contribution.



- 48 -                       ANNEX C
ANNEX C: DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Appendix 1: Borrower's Comments on ICR
Appendix 2: Water Resources Component
Appendix 3: Agriculture Component
Appendix 4: Aquaculture Component
Appendix 5: Agroindustries Component
Appet dix 6: Economic Analysis



