Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFI NAL USE ONLY
epoit No. 8495-CiA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
HEBRI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 14, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This doessamau  has a  I dtscto d  a a%d mOY be used bY    only in the puteuummuc..
th   aefir &a dudies. lbs couuteul my mat odEhewl be discosed i Weld DWuk



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
US$1.00 - Y 4.72
Y 1.00   -  US$0.21
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)              _    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         -    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)           -    15 mu
1 ton (t)                -    1,000 kg
-    2,209 pounds
1 kilogram (kg)          -    2.2 pounds
-    2.0 Jin
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ABC          -      Agricultural Bank of China
APC          -      Acquatic Products Company
APF          -      Acquatic Products Bureau
BAG          -      Bureau of Agriculture
BAH          -      Bureau of Animal Husbandry
BOF          -      Bureau of Finance
CAAS         -      Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CATEC        -      Country Agrotechnical Extension Centers
DAP          -      Diammonium Phosphate
FAO/CP       -      Food and Agriculture Organization - Cooperative Program
GOH          -      Government of Hebei
GVAO         -      Gross Value of Agriculture Output
HAAS         -      Hebei Academy of Agricultural Sciences
HAC          -      Hebei Acquaculture Corporation
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IFAD         -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPM          -      Integrated Pest Management
ITC          -      International Tendering Company, China
LCB          -      Local Competitive Bidding
MAP          -      Monoammonium Phosphate
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
MOFERT       -      Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade
PLG          -      Project Leading Group
PMO          -      Project Management Office
SO          -      Statement of Expenditures
SMC          -      Supply and Marketing Corporation
WCB          -      Water Conservancy Bureau



CHINA                      IFOR OMCIAL USE OnLY
HEBEI AGARICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers         People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:      Hebei Provincial Government
Amounts           SDR 116.1 million (US$150 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 35 years maturity
Onlending Terms:  From Government to Hebei Provinces  15 years, including five
years of grace, with interest at 5.5 percent per annum.
Onlending rates to final beneficiaries would be no less than
Agricultural Bank of China charges on subloans for similar
purposes with similar maturities.
Ob3ectives and    The project would'alleviate poverty and increase farmer
Descriptionst   incomes by increasing agricultural productivity and marketa-
bility in the Northeast Coastal area and the inland
Heilonggang area. The project would (i) optimize conjunc-
tive use of surface and well water by rehabilitating irriga-
tion structures, sinking of about 9,950 new shallow wells;
(ii) set up a water monitoring and evaluation system and
develop a water resources plan for the province; (iii) pro-
vide needed inputs, improve seed production facilities,
strengthen agricultural research and extension;
(iv) increase efficiency in sheep and cattle production
through ammonification of wheat and corn straws, and plant-
ing alfalfa; (v) produce fertilizers (urea and monoammonium
phosphate) and promote use of cotton stalk in particle board
and fluting paper manufacturing; (vi) strengthen agromachin-
ery service stations; (vii) improve efficiency of aquacul-
ture investments by rehabilitating 3,467 ha of shrimp ponds,
constructing 533 ha of new ponds, modernization of proces-
sing facilities and construction of fishponds and scallops
chains; and (viii) provide equipment and technical assis-
tance, particularly in agroindustries and overseas training
programs.
Benefits and      At full development, the project would produce 793,000 tons
Risks:          of crops valued at US$175 million, 114,000 tons of fruits
valued at US$35 million annually. Incremental production of
aquaculture and livestock would be US$12 million. Agro-
industries' value added would be US$8 million annually. Per
capita income would increase by an average of 125 percent
for the 540,000 poor farm families. Significant employment
would be created in all components. Employment for women
would be notable in the Heilonggang area. No major risks
are anticipated.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs                        Local           ForeiAg         Total
--…------- (US$ million) ----------
Water Ctonbervancy                      57.0            27.2           84.2
Agricultural Development                18.5            44.4           62.9
Livestock Development                  18.3              8.7           27.0
Aquaculture                            18.0             11.8           29.8
Agroindustries                         19.6             35.7           55.3
Institutional Development               2.5              0.9            3.4
Base Cost /a                          133.9            128.7          262.6
Physical Contingencies                  6.9              7.7           14.6
Price Contingencies                    19.6             12.8           32.4
Total Proiect Cost               160.4            149.2          309.6
L   Project is exempt from taxes and duties.
Financing Plant                        Local           Foreign         Total
---------- (Us$ million) ----------
IDA                                0.8            149.2         150.0
Provincial Government             32.0              -             32.0
Prefecture/County Governments    71.6               -             71.6
Agricultural Bank of China        13.0              -             13.0
Beneficiaries                     43.0              -             43.0
Total                       160.4            149.2         309.6
Estimated Disbursements
Bank/IDA FY      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995       1996
Annual              19        37         45        31         13         5
Cumulative          19        56       101        132       145        150
Economic Rate of Returns  Crops:  342, aquaculturet 302, livestock 332
Overall Projects 322



-Liii 
CHI"
EBB13 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paze No.
I *ACKGROUD  . . . . . . . . .                                   1
A. IntiLoductLon  . . . . . . . .                            I
a. The Agrlculture Sector        .       . . . . . . .       1
C. The Livestock Subtector    or..........         .         2
D. The Flsherles Subsector .t........ ..                     2
E. Sectoral Objectives and Bank Lending  . . . . . . . .     3
F. Agrlculture in Hebei  .... ...  .  .  .   .........       4
G. ProJect Formulation and Rationale.  . . . . . . . . .     7
II. THE PROJECT AREAS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     7
A. Location  ....  .   .     . .  . ..  . . . . . . .7
B. Climate, Topography and Soils  . . . . . . .    . .7
C. Water Resources and Irrigation  . . . . . . . . . . .     8
D. Land Use, Farm SLse and Population                        8
E. Present Develoomentp. .t.......                           9
F. Support Services  .....  ............                    11
0. Infrastructure  . . . . . . . .                          13 . . .    .  i1
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . .          . . . . . . .    13
A. Project Descriptlon...............                       14
B. Status of Preparatlon. .......*.  .... ..                24
C. Implementation Scheduled..      .... .......             24
D. Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . . . . .      24
B.   Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
F. Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    25
0. Dlsbursements . . . . - . . . . . . ........             27
B. Accounts and Audl      ts. ....   ......     ....        28
I. Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
IV. ORGANIZATION AND ANAGEMENT  .......29
A. Project Organization .         .      .      ...         29
B. Management of Production Actlvities . . . . . . . . .    30
C. Financial Management...                                  31
D. 8xecutlon of Project Works  .............                32
E. Operation and Maintenance. .... ........ .               32
P. Project Launch Workshopr    ............                 33
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting  . . . . . . . .    33
This report is based on an FAOICP preparation report (Aprll 1989) and the
findings of an appraisal mission comprlsingt H. Eisa, R. Jalsaard, W. Prlce
(IDA) and V. Ashworth, D. Gue, A. Xaelin and R. Smith (Consultants) in Noven-
ber/Decdmber 1989. K. Constant (IDA) appraised the fertlI zer plants compo-
nent in February 1990.



POLe No.
V. PRODUCTAON,  MRK TS ANn PRICE   . . . . . . . . . . . . .       34
A.  Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
B.  Marketing Channels  .          .......  .. ......          37
C. Markets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       36
D. Prices  ............                   ....                 41
VI.  BEPFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  .       ..43
A. Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
B.  Employment and Incomes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      43
C. Employment Opportunities for Women .44
D. Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . ..        45
S.  Financial and Economic Analyses . ....   ... .             45
P. Risks .48
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMDATIONS . ..49
TEXT TABLES
3.1  Project Land Area Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16
3.2  Project Costs Summary.        .       . .... .  .  .  .        25
3.3 Procurement Profile ....  .      .  .    ...... ... .  .    .   26
ANNEXES
1. Basic Provincial and Project Area Statistics
Climate
Water Supply and Demand
Distribution of Water Conservancy Components and Distribution
Within Prefectures (Appendix 1)
2.  Project Cost Summary
Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Summary Account by Project Component
Project Component by Year
Procurement of Machinery Equipment and Material
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3. Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
Crop Budgets
Farm Models
Rent and Cost Recovery
Financial Analysis
Main Conversion Factor Used
Border Prices for Principal Products and Inputs
Economic Analysis
Key Monitoring Indicators
4. Shrimp;  A Summary of World Market Situation
5. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



- v -
CHARTS
Project Organization
Implementation Schedule
Procurement Schedule
Crop Calendar
MAP
IBRD No. 22306 - Project Locations



- 1 -
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1       The Government of China has requested IDA assistance in financing an
integrated agricultural development project in the Province of Hebei. The
project would cover 46 counties and cities in the Heilong,jang area and 7 coun-
ties in the northeast coastal area. The main objectives of the project are to
assist the government in accelerating and diversifying agricuiltural develop-
ment in order to alleviate poverty, raise farmer incomes and increase rural
employment. The proposed project would emphasize the effective use of water
and other inputs in low-yielding areas to increase agricultural productivity,
integrate the use of crop by-products in livestock production and agro-
industries, and develop marginal land for crop and aquaculture production.
The project was identified in September 1988 and prepared in JanuarylFebruary
1989 by FAO/CP missions with participation of Bank staff. A preappraisal mis-
sion visited the project area in August/September 1989 and appraisal took
place in November/December 1989.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.2       Agriculture In China, including crops, livestock, forestry and fish-
eries, provides sustenance for over one billion people; it iv an important
source of income for some lO million farm families and accounts for about 30
percent of the country's GDP. Only about 137 million ha of China's land area
of 960 million ha are arable. Farming systems are intensive with heavy inputs
of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers, small machinery and water. Nearly
half of the cropped area is irrigated. Food grains occupy about 70 percent of
total cropland and account for about one-third of the agricultural output.
Intensive farming has allowed China to meet the basic food requirements of its
population, about 22 percent of the world's total, and to produce an increas-
ingly sophisticated mix of cash and commercial crops from less than 11 percent
of the world's arable land.
1.3       China's decade-long rural reform program has revitalized the agri-
cultural sector, provided an impressive growth and siructural change through
the introduction of the production responsibility system, increased producer
prices and enlarged the role of the market. The gross value of agricultural
output (GVAO) increased by 83 percent in real terms during 1978-88 at an aver-
age annual rate 5 percent, substantially more than that of the previous
25-year period (3.2 percent).  Vhile significant growth has been achieved, the
Government's central concern in recent years has been stagnating grain produ_-
tion, which peaked at 407 million tons in 1984. Production, thereafter ranged
between 391-402 million tons and rebounded in 1989 to reach 407.9 million
tons, an historical record.
1.4       Recent government strategies to increase grain production include
diverse measures such as increasing state investment in agriculture, mainly in
irrigation expansion and rehabilitation, and introducing partial reforms in



grain procurement, distribution, price and subsidies. Local governments in
particular have placed high priority on investments in uplands, natural pas-
tures, and water surfaces for expanding production and productivity of nonsta-
ple food and commercial crops to meet growing demand for these coamodities,
increase local entity profits and farmer incomes, and help alleviate the
pressure on the demand for grains.
C. The Livestock Subsector
1.5       In 1988, livestock contributed 26 percent of total agricultural out-
put value, compared to 15 percent in 1978. This change reflects the incen-
tives provided by liberalized livestock production and marketing as a result
of rural reforms. Between 1983 and 1987 total meat production increased by 9
percent annually. The largest gains were made by beef (23 percent annually)
followed by poultry meat (14 percent) and pork (8 percent). Cow milk produc-
tion grew by nearly 15 percent annually in the same period and egg production
increased by about 16 percent annually. Per capita milk consumption of only
4 kg is also extremely low, although it is much higher in the larger cities,
and has increased several times in the past decade.
1.6       Animals provide food, additional sources of income, organic manure,
draft power and security. Draft animals play a major role in rural transpor-
tation. In number and breadth of ownership, pigs predominate, with almost
every household rearing at least one or two on household and crop residues.
By weight, pork is estimated to comprise about 83 percent of total meat con-
sumption.  Although much livestock keeping remains largely traditional, rapid
progress has been made in introducing improved commercial livestock production
systems perticularly for pig and poultry.
1.7       Dcmestic demand for all livestock products is increasing in parallel
with the improvement in disposable income: rural per capita income has
increased fourfold and urban incomes 3.5-fold in real terms since 1978. More-
over, consumption patterns for livestock products are changing in favcr of
leaner meat and dairy products such as ice cream and milk, especially in urban
areas. Wool consumption has also increased substantially, and China is now a
major importer of raw wool. With over 187,000 tons imported in 1988, wool is
the sixth largest import by value after steel, fertilizer, grain, lumber and
automobiles in that order.
D. The Fisheries Subsector
1.8       The fisheries subsector of China includes capture and culture of
aquatic products, in the two cases harvested from both marine and freshwater
sources. Total output reached a record 10.6 million tons in 1988, compared to
a production of 5.3 million in 1983, an increase of 100 percent in six years.
Marine aquatic products accounted for 6.1 million tons of the total and
increased by 10.6 percent in 1988 over 1987. Freshwater products accounted
for 4.5 million tons and their volume increased by 11.8 percent over the pre-
vious year. These increases in aquatic products are mainly attrs.butable to
increased production of cultivated freshwater fish and marine shrimp, which in
turn increased mainly because of a large increase in the area of culture
ponds. Although aquatic products account for only 4 percent of the GVAO, they
are an important source of protein, with all cultivated freshwater fish con-



- 3 -
sumed domestically. Annual average consumption of aquatic products averages
about 9 kg per capita per annum.
1.9       China has become the world's largest producer of cultured shrimps,
wit'h 32 percent of world production. Production has grown at an average rate
of 79 percent between 1980-89 (from 2,600 tons to 190,000 tons). This remark-
able growth rate was attributed to a rapid expansion of the area of shrimp
ponds, improved hatcheries and price incentives. Shrimp production has become
an important source of foreign exchange. In 1988, China also became the larg-
est exporter of shrimp to the United States and Japan.
E. Sectoral Obiectives and Bank Lending
1.10      The Government's long-term objectives for the agricultural sector
are to increase food production to meet the requirements created by population
and income growth, and to increase income and employment opportunities in
rural areas. Given China's shortage of arable land (0.1 ha per capita),
development planners have focused on the need to increase the productivity of
presently cropped areas and to efficiently develop the few remaining areas of
unutilized lands. Steps are also being taken to stabilize grain outputs and
to raise the value-added in the farm sector--by increasing the production and
quality of food crops, animal feed, livestock, fruit, fish and industrial
crops--and also in agroprocessing, which is undergoing rapid expansion.
1.11      For livestock and fisheries development, the Government's objectives
are to increase production for domestic consumption and exports, and provide
an additional source of income for the rural population. High-valued live-
s.ock products and aquatic products are being targeted for export markets.
The livestock development strategy emphasizes the provision of superior breed-
ing stock and good quality feed, industrial (stall-fed) management systems,
pasture improvement, the development of new pasture species, establishment of
processing plants, and the provision of support services such as improved vet-
erinary and scientific breeding services. The aquatic development strategy
emphasizes establishment of aquaculture systems on land unsuitable for crop
cultivatton--freshwater culture in swamps, floodplains, marshes and poorly
drained .nterior land and marine culture in coastal lowlands. shoals and mud-
flats.
1.12      The Bank's lending to China's agricultural sector is designed to
support the Government's efforts to increase and diversify agricultural pro-
duction through more efficient use of land, water, capital and labor resources
and through the improvement of support services such as credit, research and
agricultural education. Bank group agricultural lending to date has comprised
23 operations amounting to US$2.1 billion and has covered the full spectrum of
geographic areas and subsectors, with overall focus on land development,
irrigation and drainage (five projects), upgrading agricultural support ser-
vices including agricultural research, education, credit and seed improvement
(seven projects) and developing specialized subsectors including rubber, for-
estry, fruit and fisheries development (seven projects) and area development
(four projects). In recent years, the Bank group has supported a series of
provincial development projects in which an area development approach has been
applied, with responsibility for proposing and preparing the investment pro-
posals and repaying project funds resting with provincial and lower level gov-
ernments, thus supporting the increasing delegation of development planning



- 4 -
and implementation. The rural sector adjustment loon (RSAL), which was pro-
cessed during 1968 contributed to the articulation of the reform process.
1.13      Experience in previous Bank agricultural projects in China is that
physical works have been on time or ahead of schedule. Disbursements for
agricultural projects, in fact, usually outpace those in othar sectors. Nota-
ble features of all the projects are the high standard of project management,
the enthusiastic participation of farmers and the effective collaboration of
government authorities at all levels. Two projects which supported land
development and agricultural intensification (Ncrth China Plain J;oject (Cr.
1261-CHA) and Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Cr. 1347-CHA)] and one
Rural Credit Project (Cr. 1462-CHi) have been completed. The project comple-
tion reports for the two land development projects indicated that project
implementation was successful, economic rates of return reached or exceeded
the appraisal estimates, and technology used for land development and drainage
was sound and appropriate for wider application. PCR preparation for the
Rural Credit I is underway.
1.14      The Bank has also been involved in the agricultural development of
Uebei Province through its responsibility to appraise and supervise the Hebei
Agricultural Development Project financed by the International Fund for Agri-
cultural Development (IFAD Ln. 107-CHA). The project was appraised by the
Bank in 1982 and covered two counties in Heilonggang area (Nanpi and Quzhou).
The project was implemented from 1983 to 1987 at a total cost of US$51.5 mil-
lion including an IFAD loan of US$25 million. The project aimed to develop
agriculture on some 123,500 ha of land through a program of groundwater devel-
opment, improved drainage and salinity control. Project implementation has
been adjusted to take in consideration rural reforms introduced, particularly
the production responsibility system. The establishment of a Beijing Univer-
sity Experiment Station in Quzhou has prcvided invaluable support to project
implementation and success in meeting project objectives as testified by the
Project Completion Report and FAO/CP evaluation of the project. Lessons
learned during the implementation of the IFAD project we.-e (a) effective
salinity control has to consider carefully balancing surface and groundwater
resources, (b) alfalfa proved to be a suitable crop to reduce soil salinity,
and (c) nutritional value of crop residues could be increased by ammonifica-
tion technique. These lessons were incorporated into the design of the pro-
posed project.
F. Agriculture in Hebei
1.15      Hebei Province lies in Northern China surrounding the independent
Beijing and Tianjin Municipalities. The province has a population of about 58
million, 85 percent of which is in farm households, and a land area of about
187,700 km2. About 42 percent of the land area is flat land in the North
China Plain; the remainder is composed mostly of hilly areas to the north and
west. Administratively, the province is divided into eight prefectures with
131 counties. The province borders the Bo Sea to the east and has a coastline
of about 500 km. About 7.6 million ha of the land area is arable and 3.6 mil-
lion ha of this is irrigated. Natural grassland covers 3.8 million ha, forest
3.1 million ha and sown pasture 0.9 million ha. The total sown area (not
including sown pasture) was estimated in 1988 to be 6.8 million ha. In 1989
wheat and corn occupied 68 percent of the cultivated area and other crops,



including cotton, oil crops, fruit and vegetables, accounted for the remain-
der.
1.16       Agriculture accounted for Y 25.6 billion ,n 1988 or suout 23 per-
cent of gross provincial output of Y 109.8 billion. Gross provincial agricul-
tural output (GPAO) grew about 6.3 percent per year from 1982 to 1988, consid-
erably slower than output in the industrial (12 percent per annum) or comer-
cial (13.4 percent per annum) sectors, but impressive nevertheless. Within
the agricultural sector, crops (accounting for 63 percent of GVAO) grew at S
percent per annum, livestock (accounting for 27 percent) grew at 10 percent
per annum, forestry (accounting for 3 percent) grew at 6 percent per annum and
fish and agricultural by-products (accounting for the remaining 7 percent)
grew at 15 percent per annum. Grains,l/ the major crop category, increased
only slowly (at 1.8 percent per annum) and reached a total output of 20.2 mil-
lion tons in 1988. Cotton production increased from 0.4 million tons of lint
in 1982 to 1 million tons in 1984 and then declined to around 0.5 million tons
in 1988. Hebei ranks eighth in grain production among Chinese provinces and
second (after Shandong) in cotton. Dried and fresh fruit production increased
rapidly over the period at 15 percent per annum.
1.17      In livestock, the growth in pork and cattle production depended on
the relationship of meat and feed prices.  In spite of higher demand for pork
than for red meat (beef and mutton), pig production increased by only 2 per-
cent per annum compared to 7 percent per annum for ruminants. This was
because grain feeds were in short supply, while crop residues and other by-
products suitable for ruminants were plentiful.  In 1988 meat production was
1.2 million tons, while poultry and eggs 0.4 million tons, an increase of
about 14 percent over 1987 levels. The continuing expansion of the livestock
sector occurred largely in the smallholder subsector in the main cropping
areas. Liberalized livestock markets and farmer's responsiveness to improved
income-earning and diversification opportunities were the major factors. Con-
centration on ruminants reduces smallholders exposure to feed price fluctua-
tion and, thus, has in recent years been more attractive. Further increases
in nonruminant livestock production are likely to be somewhat constrained by
increasingly tight grain and concentrated feed supplies.
1.18      Production of aquatic products over the period increased even more
rapidly than meat production, with an increase of 12 percent per annum. Total
fisheries production in 1988 was 207,000 tons (an increase of 16 percent over
1987) of which 59 percent was from sea capture, 18 percent from mariculture
and 23 percent from freshwater aquaculture. The output value of aquatic prod-
ucts reached Y 725 million. There were 18,000 ha devoted to mariculture of
which 17,700 ha were devoted to shrimp cultivation. Shrimp production has
grown substantially, doubling over the laet four years. Production reached
36,900 tons in 1988. Current government plans are to moderate the expansion
of shrimp mariculture, considering the world market situation (Annex 4).
1.19      Rural Poverty in Hebei.  The rural agricultural population of Hebei
is very poor compared to the urban po?ulation. Average agricultural per
capita income is Y 440 (US$93) compared to the urban average of Y 855
1/ Grains include rice, wheat, sweet potatoes, maize, sorghum, millet and
soybean.



- 6 -
(US$181). In addition, according to a 1986 household survey, there were 2.5
million farm households, with 10.1 million family members in total (21 percent
of rural population), which have per capita incomes below Y 200 (US$43) per
annum. A recent household survey named 49 counties as the poorest areas; 15
counties in Heilonggang, 14 counties in Taihang mountain, 14 counties in Hang
Shan and 6 counties in the highland of north Hebei. It is dramatic that pov-
erty of such magnitude exists this close to Beijing and Tianjin municipali-
ties. The rural incomes in these two large municipalities, both of which
include a substantial rural population, were much higher, Y 916 (US$194) and
Y 749 (US$159) per capita, respectively. The main reasons for poverty in
rural Hebei are (a) poor natural resources--infertile lands with varying
degrees of excess salinity and l,mited water resources, (b) susceptibility to
natural disasters such as floods and droughts and to unpredictably severe
weather, (c) poor infrastructure and communications, whi-h limit opportunities
(particularly in remote areas) to learn about new agricultural technologies,
and (d) a poorly developed commercial infrastructure, which limits farmers'
incentives to increase production.
1.20      Hebei's Eighth Five-Year Plan (1990-95) emphasizes rural reforms and
the development of the agricultural sector as important mechanisms to acceler-
ate economic growth. It expects that the gross provincial output would
increase by 9 percent per annum and gross provincial agricultural output by 5
percent per annum over the next plan period. Grain production is expected to
increase to 23.5 million tons and cotton to 0.9 million tons by 1995. These
targets would be achieved through continued support by the Provincial Govern-
ment for the development of the production responsibility system with
increased provision of technical services. The Province expects to increase
its investme-nt in water resources and the development of high-yielding,
disease-resist-'t varieties. Plans have also been made to adjust output
prices of grains and cotton so as to increase farmer's Incentives sand to make
available the necessary inputs and credit for both crop and livestock produc-
tion. Hebei would continue to support the development of rural enterprises
and has targeted their development to the poor areas of the province in order
to alleviate poverty and income disparities.
1.21      The major constraints to increasing crop yields and production in
the province are the lack of fertilizers, improved certified seeds and irriga-
tion and the presence of waterlogging, excess salinity and drought. Agricul-
tural production in the province is vulnerable to variable weather conditions.
The reduction in provincial grain production in 1987, for instance, was attri-
buted to drought.  These constraints operate strongly in the south-central
Heilonggang area. With reliable water supplies, the effect of drought could
be minimized. With new varieties of cotton, wheat and paddy, cropping pattern
could be more intensive. With timely availability of irrigation water and
appropriate and adequate inputs, crop yields in the areas of low to medium
productivity could be increased substantially.
1.22      Water Resources in Hebei.  The water reaources of Hebei Province are
as diverse as its topography and geography. In the northeastern region large
annual rainfall and the mountainous topography produce abundant surface water
supplies. In the Beilonggang region, however, annual rainfall of 400-500 mm
must be supplemented by irrigation to obtain high yields. Over the past 30
years some areas have been conve-ted from marginal saline wasteland to a
highly productive irrigated agricultural region (e.g., Quzhou county under the



recently completed IFAD project, para. 1.14). Large drainage channels to the
sea combined with well irrigation have allowed effective leaching of much of
the salinp 'end in the province.
1.23      Surface water, shallow groundwater and deep groundwater are the
three interlinked major sources of water for irrigation. While many mountain
reservoirs have been constructed, significant amounts of water flow unused to
the sea as no surface storage sites exist in the flat plains regions. In the
2.2 million ha of agricultural land in Heilranggang area, there are 230,000
shallow wells and 46,000 deep wells. During the last five years, 10,000 new
wells have been sunk per year. The high rate of new well drilling, coupled
with lower-than-average rainfall in the area, indicate that there is a danger
of overexploitation of shallow groundwater. The management of the water
resources in the area needs to be upgraded to develop efficient conjunctive
use of surface water and groundwater. Deep groundwater is being overexploited
and less use of deep groundwater should be made for irrigation in order to
conserve this resource for municipal and industrial use.
G. Proiect Formulation and Rationale
1.24      The integrated agricultural development approach under the proposed
project is designed to addtiss most of the major constraints limiting agricul-
tural productivity in Hebei's poorest areas: the shortage and poor quality of
irrigation water, inadequate crop diversification, the poor quality of final
products, the limited extension network, and the weak linkages between produc-
tion, processing and marketing activities. IDA's involvement in the project
has resulted in significant design changes in the water conservancy and aqua-
culture components as well as the introduction of greater emphasis on environ-
mental aspects. The project was designed to: (a) reflect recent developments
in the export markets for shrimp; (b) promote efficient use of inputs;
(c) strengthen the integration of production and marketing activities;
(d) increase farmers' income from livestock activities and the use of crop
residues; (e) increase awareness of efficient management of water resources;
Cf) expand the area under irrigation by increased conjunctive use of surface
and shallow water aquifer sources, and (g) limit water use from deep aquifers
to municipal and industrial purposes.
II. THE PROJECT AREAS
A. Location
2.1       The proposed project areas are located in the Northeast Coastal
region and the Heilonggang region and include 53 counties in eight prefec-
tures/municipalities of Tangshan, Qinhuangdao, Cangzhou, Baoding,
Shijiazhuang, Hengshui, Xingtai and Handan.  Project locations and area sta-
tistics are given in Annex 1 and on IBRD Map No. 22306.
B. Climate, Topography and Soils
2.2       Climate.  The Heilonggang region has a continental monsoon climate
with dry, moderately cold winters and hot wet summers. Average daily tempera-
tures range from January lows of approximately -3.80C to over 260C in July.



- a -
The frost-free period is 190 to 220 days with the last frost in early April
and the first in late October. The average annual rainfall is about 480 to
600 mm with over 55 percent of the total annual precipitation during July and
August. The Northeast Coastal region has a somewhat wetter and milder climate
than Heilouggang with an average annual rainfall of about 600 to 700 mm. The
frost free period is approximately 175 to 190 days and average daily tempera-
tures range from -5.90C in January to over 250C in August. In both regions
the rainfall from year to year is extremely variable. In a wet year, rainfall
in the Heilonggang region may reach 3.5 times that of a dry year and wet sea-
son precipitation (during the summer) can exceed 80 percent of the year's
total. This results in the region being pzone to both droughts, flooding and
temporary waterlogging.
2.3       Topography and Soils.  The southern plains area of the province (the
Heilonggang region) is generally flat with a slight slope from southwest to
northeast. The flatness of the land has resulted in a number of low-lying
areas which are partially saline due to slow natural drainage. The Northeast
Coastal area is also flat near the coast but steepens toward the north. Land
near the mountains has lighter riverine alluvial soils, while the coastal land
was formed from more recent marine deposits consisting of silts and clays with
higher salinity from residual effects of sea water. Coastal dikes now protect
these areas from high tide and storm inundation.
C. Water Resources and Irrigation
2.4       7he water supply for irrigation in the North Coastal area is from
the surface water flow of the Luwn He, Dou He and Yang He rivers. Despite the
availability of 4.8 billion cubic meters of storage capacity, there are peri-
ods of extreme low flow at the river diversion locations and other times when
large flows are wasted to the sea. The surface water supplies in the
Heilonggang region are limited, more variable than in Northeast Coastal areas,
and require additional storage to make them dependable sources of irrigation.
The lack of reliable supplies of surface water and surface reservoir sites on
the flat plain prompted the Government of Hebei (GOB) to take advantage of
underground water storage in the shallow and deep aquifers. Thus the main
irrigation supply is pumped from shallow wells (30 to 80 m deep) and deep
wells (up to 300 m deep). The shallow groundwater aquifer is generally sepa-
rated from the deep groundwater by impervious zones and is annually recharged
from rainfall, streamflow and irrigation. There are, however, limitations to
the shallow groundwater supply without additional surface water importation
into the region. Some of the shallow groundwater is partially saline but can
be modified over time by salinity reclamation practices and management.
Therefore, the incorporation of surface water supplies with shallow ground-
water aquifers provides the potential for a highly efficient conjunctive use
system that can be expanded in the future with the planned importation of
Yellow River water into the region.
D. Land Use, Farm Size and Population
2.5       The Heilonggang Area.  About 2.2 million ha, or 69 percent of the
gross land area is arable, 98,000 ha under woodland, 33,000 ha under pasture,
6,300 ha in orchards, and 57,000 ha in wasteland. Cropped area is about
3 million ha with a crop intensity of about 139 percent. Wheat is the most
important crop (33 percent) followed by maize (19 percent), cotton (19 per-



- 9 -
cent), millet and sorghum (9 percent) and other crops including sweet pota-
toes, peanuts, soybeans, oil seeds and vegetables (20 percent). About 51
percent of the cropped area is fully irrigated (primarily vells), 15 percent
partially irrigated and 34 percent rainfed. Total population is about 15.6
million, of which, 14.6 million (94 percent) are engaged in agriculture. The
rural labor force is estimated at about 6.2 million. Average family size is
4.2 persons, of which 1.8 aze workers. Average farm size is about 0.65 ha.
2.6       The Northeast Coastal Area.  About 367,000 ha or 43 percent of the
gross land area (861,000 ha) is arable, 192,000 ha in cultivated crops, 88,000
ha under woodland, 37,000 ha under pasture, 6,300 ha in orchards and 44,000 ha
is wasteland. Cropping intensity is about 115 percent, i.e., less than in
Heilonggang due to the short growing season with lower temperatures. Maize,
the most important crop, accounts for about 31 percent of the total cropped
area, sweet potatoes for 21 perc.nt, wheat and paddy for 14 percent each and
other crops about 20 percent (including peanuts, soybeans, oilseeds, vegetable
and fruit crops). About 63 percent of the cropped area is rainfed, while all
the paddy, 80 percent of the wheat and 46 percent of the maize are irrigated.
The project area involves about 250 km of coastline, primarily for shrimp
development. About 64,500 ha of coastal area are suitable for marine aquacul-
ture of which 13,513 ha are now in use (21 percent). These areas located
principally in tidal mud flats on the saltwater side of established sea walls
are not suitable for crop production and have been reclaimed for shrimp pro-
duction. The total population in this project area is about 3.0 million of
which about 2.8 million or 93 percent, are dependent on agriculture. The
rural labor force is estimated at about 1.3 million. Average family size is
estimated at 3.8 persons, of which 1.8 are workers. Average farm size is
0.5 ha.
S. Present Develogment
2.7       Agriculture.  In the Ieilonggang area, the predominant crop rotation
in irrigated areas is winter wheat, followed by maize (65 percent) or summer
cotton (25 percent), and single-crop cotton. Rainfed areas (about 60 percent)
are planted with wheat followed by millet in the first year, followed by sweet
potato in the second year and in the third year peanuts or soybeans. Rainfed
cotton covers about 30 percent of the area. Recently, the development of
early maturing wheat and cotton varieties for the southern Heilonggang area
provided a breakthrough in relay cropping of wheat (winter) and cotton (spring
cotton). Yield levels of both crops are comparable to single cropping. of
course, adequate irrigation, organic and chemical fertilizers and agrochemi-
cals are essential to achieving high yield levels and improving soil fertil-
ity. The project would expand wheat and cotton relay cropping and foster
development of improved high yielding varieties and application of modern cul-
tural practices. Generally, Hetlonggang yield levels of all crops, except
maize, are below the provincial averages, mainly as a result of inadequate
irrigation, poor seeds and shortage of agrochemicals. Cotton shows considera-
ble variation in yield from only 0.5 tons lint per ha in low yielding rainfed
conditions to more than a ton per ha with irrigation, good seed and adequate
farm inputs. Fruit crops are usually planted in marginal lands and river
beds, as grains, cotton and oil crops occupy most of the arable land. With
the liberalization of marketing of fruit crops, considerable development of
fruits and vegetables in the province has taken place to supply urban areas.
Hebei pears and Chinese dates (Golden Thread variety) are famous. The latter



- 10 -
(ZizyDhus iuiuba) have been planted over about 16,000 ha--generally inter-
planted with cereals and other crops.
2.8       In the Northeast Coastal areas, the predominant crop rotation is
wheat followed by maize (60 percent), followed by single-cropped spring maize
in the second year. Paddy (Japonica varieties) is primarily planted as a
single crop over about 30 percent of the irrigated area, with high yields
(reaching 6-7 tons ha) based on better seeds, reasonable supplies of agroche-
micals and improved cultural practices. In general, average wheat and maize
yields are higher than Heilonggang due to higher rainfall and available sur-
face irrigation water, better soils and crop production practices. Develop-
ment of wasteland is seen as the key for increased production of high quality
rice and improvement of farmer incomes in the coastal areas. Relay cropping
of improved early maturing wheat and paddy varieties has been successful in
inland reclaimed areas and the practice would be extended under the project.
2.9       Seed Production.  Conventional rice varieties are planted in the
Northeast Coastal areas rather than hybrid rice as in the southern provinces.
About 40 percent of the rice seed in Hebei is supplied through the provincial
and country seed companies. This is higher than the national average for
China (15 percent). For cotton, the opposite is true. Hebei ranks second
after Shandong in planted area to cotton, but well below the national average
in the level of cotton seeds supplied through the seed companies: 35 percent
vs. 60 percent. Since the national supply of cottonseed is considered to be
lower than desirable, the 35 percent supply in Hebei is low indeed and con-
strains the introduction and diffusion of new improved varieties and types in
the area as well as improvements in yield and product quality. With the limi-
tations of arable land, particularly fully irrigated areas, production
increases are most likely to result from adequate supply of quality seeds of
improved varieties and availability of farm inputs. New varieties of maize,
millet, peanuts, soybeans and other crops have been developed at the research
stations but are not widely used in the project area due to inadequate produc-
tion and supply of seeds.
2.10      Livestock.  The project areas' livestock population comprises large
animals (cattle and equines) 1.52 million, pigs 3.1 million, sheep 1.26 mil-
lion, goats 1.31 million, poultry 49.44 million and rabbits 7.2 million. In
general, the productivity and output of livestock in the project area lags
behind the province as a whole, especially that of the northern areas. The
main constraints to improving livestock output in the province and in the
project areas includes (a) the comparatively poor quality of the feed base
especially for ruminant animals; (b) weaknesses in the veterinary and animal
extension programs; (c) lack of credit; and (d) inadequate meat processing and
cold storage facilities and weaknesses in the marketing systems. These con-
straints would be addressed under the project.
2.11      Aguaculture.  The Northeast Coastal project area encompasses about
13,500 ha of shrimp ponds, representing 58 percent of total provincial shrimp
production capacity, and 8,800 ha of freshwater fishponds, representing 29
percent of provincial freshwater fish production. The area also includes 300
scallop operations, occupying an area at sea of 60 ha. In the project area,
in 1989, a total of 21,834 tons of cultivated (head-on) shrimp were produced.
The species of white shrimp cultivated is Penaeus orientalis, a species native
to the Bo sea. Shrimp ponds are usually of 3 ha size, producing a single har-



- 11 -
vest from early September till end of October. China uses a semi-intensive
culture methodology with a stocking density of 300,000 post-larvae without
aeration. Ponds are drained and dried over the winter; cold winter conditions
lead to eradication of diseases and pests and provide an opportunity for pond
maintenance. Shrimp yields are relatively high and can reach 2-3 tons of
headed shrimp/ha. Such high yields with the long season keep them competitive
with southern warm areas where two crops can be produced.
2.12      Shrimp area expansion in the last five years has led to relative
neglect of pond maintenance, feed efficiency, processing quality and overall
improvement of the management process. This is exacerbated by the distinct
compartmentalization of provincial production, processing, marketing and man-
agement activities, and weak if nonexistent linkages between research, exten-
sion and development. Feed standards and management oporations between the
six counties in the project area are so variable that no standardi-ed norms
can be found for feed quality and processing of final product. The conse-
quence of these shortcomings have been reflected in lower prices of Chinese
white shrimp in export markets relative to other competitors (Annex 4). These
problems are being recognized by provincial, prefecture and county planners
and the project emphasis on pond rehabilitation, rather than expansion, intro-
ducing technical and managerial impzovement in production, processing and mar-
keting is clearly aimed to address the aforementioned constraints. Freshwater
fish and scallops production are typically for the domestic market with rela-
tively fewer problems than shrimp. The project would include improved
research, extension and training linkages among farmers and technicians to
improve efficiency of production and marketing of all types of seafood.
F. Support Services
2.13      Research   In addition to the national research programs of the
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) and its institutes, Hebei
Province depends largely for its development efforts on research programs
undertaken at the Hebei Provincial Academy of Agricultural Sciences (HAAS) and
related inst'2tutes in Shijiazhuang, and the University of Hebei in Baoding.
Beijing UniversiLyls Regional Experiment Station at QuZhou County (southern
Heilonggang) has provided strong support to irrigated agriculture, salinity
control and improved cultural practices since its establisbment (in 1982) to
address these problems under the recently completed IFAD-supported project.
In addition, the National Cotton, Wheat and Maize Research Center in Anyang
(Henan Province) provides active support in varietal development and integra-
ted pest management (IPM). The Forestry Academy of Science also provides
active support in perennial fruit crops, including Chinese dates and pears.
Research is also undertaken by the provincial bureaus of water conservancy
(WCB), agriculture, forestry, and livestock and aquatic products. Some of the
prefectures and counties have specialized research institutes which collabo-
rate closely with the HAAS and are mainly supported through their respective
prefecture and county governments. Hebei Province has about 22 agricultural
research units, with a total of 254 senior and 1,932 middle-level research
scientists. Experiments are also carried out on 10,000 ha of farmland in 30
locations. These research institutes and their staff have contributed signi-
ficantly to the development of improved high-yielding, early-maturing varie-
ties with drought and salinity tolerance suitable for the different agroclima-
tic zones of Hebei Province. However, more applied research work is needed to
incorporate modern production practices and efficient use and application of



- 12 -
agrochemicals. Dissemination of research results and feedback from farmers
and beneficiaries need strengthening. Lack of operational funds and modern
equipment and a shortage of qualified trained staff to link research with
extension constitute a bottleneck to advanced agricultural development. These
aspects would be addressed under the project.
2.14      Extension.  With the introduction of the production responsibility
system, a dramatic change from top-down technical transfer and adoption to a
bottom-up ar-roach has taken place. Dissemination and feedback of information
to an enormouv number of beneficiaries (compared to the old commune and pro-
duction brigade system) necessitated introduction of advisory extension staff,
provision of extension centers at all administrative levels and modern exten-
sion equipment (including comumuications media). These changes are nationwide
and at present Hebei Province is participating in the process of restructuring
the extension network into multifunctional, County Agrotechnical Extension
Centers (CATECs).
2.15      Extension services for agriculture, forestry, livestock and aquatic
products are generally well established in the project area at provincial,
prefecture, county, township and to an extent at the village level. There are
agrotechnical stations at the township level and farmer-operated (household
level) demonstration farms at the village level. At the township level, each
center is staffed with 4-5 technicians who serve 15-20 villages. Thus, each
technician serves 4-5 villages and at each village, the township technician
contacts 20-30 leading households who disseminate information to other house-
holds. Each village has a loudspeaker system which could be connected to the
township for messages and also used for couunnicating village information.
Agreed production targets between village households (farmers) and township
technicians are planned at the beginning of the season and the technicians at
all levels and their centers share in bonuses if targets have been achieved.
This incentive system clearly keeps technicians interested in successful
implementation of their recommendations. The need for additional agrotechni-
cal centers with better services at county and township levels is apparent and
the project would provide for these needs and improve training programs.
Linkages between research and extension agencies and programs would be also
streamlined and strengthened under the project.
2.16      Agricultural Credit.  The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) is the
largest provider of institutional credit in Hebei. It is widely represented
throughout the project area with eight branches at prefecture and city levels,
53 subbranches at county level with 339 operational offices, 1,420 rural
credit cooperatives and 19,855 credit stations at township and village levels.
ABC resources are obtained from deposits, loans, profits and state budget. In
1989, the Hebei Provincial ABC shows a portfolio of Y 15.37 billion, of which
65 percent for commerce, 28 percent for agriculture and township industries
and 7 percent for industry and other. Within the agricultural loans, seasonal
loans for agricultural inputs account for 78 percent, followed by loans for
wells and machinery of 5 percent each. Livestock and aquatic loans make up
only 2 percent and 1 percent respectively; the remaining 9 percent for other.
ABC charges interest according to the length of repayment periodss as of
April 15, 1990, due to lower inflation rate (presently about 62), ABC interest
rates were reduced from 11.3 percent to 10.1 percent for one-year loans and
from 19.3 percent to 18.0 percent for loans over five years. Under the proj-
ect, ABC would act as a fiscal agent for the Project Management Office (PMO)



- 13 -
accounts. The Bureau of Finance would be responsible for financial management
aspects.
G. Infrastructure
2.17      Transport.  The project area is well served by the Province's rail
and road network. All national networks cross the project as the province
surrounds both Beijing and Tianjin municipalities.  In addition, the city of
Beidaihe in Qinhuangdao prefecture is a famous summer resort area with direct
road, rail and sea links to the interior of the province as well as its
coastal areas on the Bo sea. A good road network links the counties,
townships and villages in the province. Sea transportation to the project
area benefits Tangshan and qinhuangdao prefectures.
2.18      Power.  The North China Power Grid, which would provide all electri-
cal main supply to the project, is currently undergoing a major upgrade.
Extensive new generating capacity is being installed, and the distribution
network and substations are being modernized. The North China Grid is subdi-
vided into two networks. The Jing Jing Tan Network operates at 500 kV and
covers five northern prefectures, together with the metropolitan cities of
Beijing, Tianjin and Tangshan. This network would supply all of the project
components in the northeast of the province. The Ji Nan Network operates at
220 kV and covers the southern part of Hebei Province. It would supply power
to all of the project components to the south and those of Baoding. Provi-
sional estimates for the energy requirement of all components of the project
are 170 GMhlyear. The North China Power Grid currently has a total generating
capacity of 35,440 GVhlyear, excluding dedicated metropolitan generating
plants in Beijing and Tianjin. New generating capacity which is scheduled to
come on-line by the end of 1992 would provide an additional 6,600 G1hIyear
which would be more than adequate to meet the requirements of the project.
The Hebei Power Bureau has confirmed its commitment to provide all components
of the project with adequate power supply to ensure full utilization of equip-
ment.
III. THE PROJECv
3.1       The project would assist Hebei Province in its development plan to
alleviate poverty and increase farmer incomes by increasing productivity and
marketability of agriculture, livestock and aquatic products in the northeast
coastal area (Tangshan and Qinhuangdao cities) and the inland Heilouggang
area. The project would: (a) strengthen the province's ability to effec-
tively manage its available water resources, (b) increase and intensify pro-
ductivity of existing low-yielding crops and diversify the cropping pattern,
(c) promote market analysis as a criterion for increasing production and
improving processing of major commodities, (d) expand agroprocessing activi-
ties to rationalize fertilizer production and make use of agricultural by-
products, (e) promote an effective use of crop residues in expanding livestock
production and (f) strengthen provincial applied research and extension pro-
grams for crops, livestock, aquaculture and water conservancy.



- 14 -
A. Proiect Descristion
3.2       The proposed project would expand and rehabilitate irrigation facil-
ities mainly for cultivation of wheat, paddy, maize, cotton, oilseeds, vegeta-
bles, fruits and alfalfa. The use of crop residue and by-products (which
would increase in volume under the project) would increase available livestock
feed for ruminant animals (mainly cattle and sheep) through ammonification of
straw. The seed processing component for cotton, rice, maize and other crops
would ultimately contribute to increased yields through the introduction and
distribution of newly developed high-yield varieties suitable for Hebei's
agroclimatic conditions. Agroprocessing investments would be limited to agri-
culturally related activities essential to the area, i.e., two model fertili-
zer plants using advanced international technologies to produce urea and mono-
ammonium phosphate (MAP) and construct two factories using cotton stalk in
particle board and fluting paper manufacturing.  The project would also con-
struct and rehabilitate shrimp ponds, and provide feedmills and shrimp proces-
sing facilities to augment the province's efforts in improving shrimp quality
and increasing fish and scallop production. Special efforts to strengthen
agricultural research, extension programs and their linkages would be extended
through the project by providing needed equipment and management training at
all levels. The project components are: (i) water conservancy; (ii) agri-
culture development; (iii) livestock development; (iv) aquaculture; (v) agro-
industries; and (vi) institutional development.
Water Conservancy
3.3       Heilongganp Area.  Adequate and reliable water supply is the primary
constraint to expand irrigated area and intensify agricultural production.
Conjunctive use of water resources from surface water supplies and shallow
well aquifers is the key to providing sustainable irrigation water to propel
agricultural development. This would be attained by a two-pronged approach to
improve structures to distribute surface water on a larger area, particularly
in years with above-average rainfall, and provide investments for drilling of
new shallow wells and laying of water-saving distribution pipes. Water avail-
ability assessments and planning for the province's water resources would also
be strengthened under the project.
3.4       Additional surface water would be brought into the southern portions
of the Heilonggang region by the replacement of four existing pumping stations
from the Wei He River that are nearly inoperable. The new pumps would provide
additional installed capacity and would add an estimated 255 million m3 of
surface water into the region in an average year. In addition, four sluice
gates would be constructed in existing flood drainage channels to provide tem-
porary surface storage within the project area. The total storage capacity
formed by the gates is 36 million mn3. These gates allow capture of a portion
of excess late summer surface r-unoff to be used as irrigation the following
spring. The surface supplies obtained from gate impoundments vary from year
to year depending on the rainfall, but are valuable in reducing groundwater
withdrawals and in providing groundwater recharge. The locations of the pump-
ing stations and storage gates to be constructed under the project are
detailed in Annex 1, Appendix 1. On average 24,000 ha would receive a full
irrigation supply and 120,000 ha would receive either partial or supplemental
irrigation in areas either without irrigation or which are now served only by
wells.



- IS -
3.5       As for drilling of shallow vells, a total of 9,950 new shallow wells
would be drilled and fitted with electric or diesel pumps at a rate of 4,000
wells per year in the first 2.5 years of project implementation until a more
detailed assessment of water resources has been carried out. These new wells
would be in addition to the 12,000-17,000 shallow wells drilled annually to
replace older wells (about 7 percent annually of 230,000 existing wells). The
shallow wells would vary in depth from 30 to 80 m with capacities ranging from
20-40 m3/hour. A typical well system equipped with water-saving pipes and a
capacity of 30 m3/hour would be capable of supplying irrigation to an area of
6.75 ha, i.e., a total of 67,100 ha of rainfed land would be converted to full
irrigation. In order to improve water delivery, closed conduit water-saving
pipes would be installed not only with new shallow wells, but also on some
existing ones. A total of 6,478 km of concrete pipes would be needed for the
new wells and 3,356 km would be installed on existing wells. The pipes would
vary in size from 100-200 mm and would be produced locally with methods that
compact low slump concrete into standard size forms. Ash from coal-fired
power plants is included in the concrete mixture which minimizes the quantity
of cement needed. The pipe can withstand only 2-3 meters of pressure which is
adequate for use in on-farm distribution systems covering small areas.
Approximately 3,000 km of pipe per year would be produced and installed under
the project. The water-saving pipes installed on existing wells would reduce
water use by about 35 percent compared to open ditches, enabling an additional
area of about 36,300 ha of rainfed lands to be brought to full irrigation.
3.6       In order to maintain funding for new wells and water-saving pipes, a
revolving fund for this purpose with a maximum four-year replenishment cycle
would be established under the project in a separate account in ABC. Farmers
usually contribute 30-50 percent of well construction cost and borrow the bal-
ance. This practice would be continued under the project. Assurances have
been obtained at negotiations for the establishment and maintenance of such a
revolving fund in the amount of Y 32.5 million at county ABC branches and man-
aged by county PMOs.
3.7       Northeast Coastal Area.  Surface irrigation systems would be
expanded and upgraded in Tangshan and Qinhuangdao prefectures to capture and
utilize most of the water that presently escapes to the Bo Sea. In Tangshan,
surface water supplies from the Dou He and Luan He rivers would be regulated
and interconnected to provide the irrigation water to reclaim scattered
wasteland areas adjacent to presently cultivated areas. Structures to be
developed under the project include: (a) expansion of the Dou le irrigation
system, by constructing two surface reservoirs and installing control gates,
small pump units and drainage features to bring 6,200 ha into production;
(b) expansion of the Luanxia irrigation system to bring 8,620 ha of new lands
into the irrigated service area with the installation of control and storage
gates, pump units and conveyance facilities. The new areas in both the Dou He
and Luanxia schemes would initially be planted with paddy, and as the salinity
of the soil is reduced, cropping with wheat and vegetables would be extended
to suitable areas. In Qinhuangdao prefecture, four separate irrigation Sys-
tems would be upgraded to allow lands originally included in old, partially
completed schemes to be served. The initial systems were constructed fn the
1960s and 19709 and did not have adequate funding to complete all features.
In addition, some of the main canals were constructed over highly pervious
soils and were built without lining. These systems now suffer from high water



- 16 -
losses that prevent water delivery to the lower ends of the original service
areas. These improvements would expand the fully irrigated area by a total of
about 14,000 ha in Qinhuangdao prefecture. Detailed descriptions of the
irrigation schemes are in Annex 1, Appendix 1. The total Incremental irriga-
ted areas in Heilonggang and Northeast Coastal areas are summarized in the
following table.
Table 3.1s PROJECT LAND AREA SUMMARY
('000 ha)
Gross     Cultivated area           Irrisated area
area   Esisting With project  Existing  With project
Beilonggang area         3,188   2,194        2,210       1,373        1,565Sa
Northeast Coastal area      770     157         176          59           84/b
Total               3,958   2,351        2,386       1,432       1.649
a   Incremental irrigated area consists primarily of about 100,000 ha from
new wells and water-saving pipes, the remaining from surface water irri-
gation systems.
lb   Incremental irrigated area from surface water irrigation.
3.8       Water Resources Development Plan.  The project includes funding of a
program to strengthen the monitoring, planning, operating and managing of sur-
face and groundwater resources by the WCB. The conjunctive use of surface
water to supplement groundwater resources and to reclaim partially saline
areas has been targeted and would be of primary concern under the project.
The project would provide equipment to collect, assimilate, monitor and evalu-
ate the shallow groundwater levels and withdrawals. Staff training would be
provided to expand the capability of the lCB for making future estimates of
groundwater availability, detenmining areas of overexploitation, measuring
groundwater level response to rainfall and selecting long-term potential for
additional drilling of new shallow wells. Assurances have beeiL obtained at
negotiations that no new wells other than those under the project would be
drilled in the Ieilonggang region until the final assessment of the ground-
water resources under this program has been made. Surface water modeling and
operation simulations studies of the Wei He River pump diversions into the
Heilonggang area would also be conducted to establish detaiied operating pro-
cedures and to maximize conjunctive use. Subregional water balances would be
made to support plans for new water resource allocations and plans for future
surface water imports. Strengthening of surface water management in the
northeast coastal area would also be included in the program as there would be
long-term competition in this region from the large municipalities of Beijing,
Tianjin and Tangshan for surface water. The training activities associated
with this component would range from local township staff to senior engineers
of the provincial IWCB and would consist of local in-service training and over-
seas training.



- 17 -
3.9       Water Resources Research.  The following water research topics of
relevance to the project have been selecteds (a) investigation of the chang-
ing surface water runoff patterns; (b) study of methods to improve or reclaim
partially saline lands through surface and groundwater irrigation practices,
(c) survey, evaluation and assessment of wastewater use in agriculture, and
(d) future water use efficiency and water allocations. These research pro-
grams would be conducted by the WCB and related institutes of the HAAS and
Hebei Agricultural University (HAU). Assurances have been obtained at nego-
tiations that results of water resource monitoring, water resource development
planning and research would be compiled as they become available, and dis-
cussed with IDA, PHO and WCB.
Agriculture Development
3.10      Agrochemicals.  The major constraints to increasing crop yields and
production in the project area are the lack of irrigation, agrochemicals, cer-
tified seeds, and the existence of waterlogging, excess salinity and drought.
High-enalysis chemical fertilizers are in short supply, particularly phos-
phates. Soils are generally deficient in nitrogen and phosphate and current
fertilizer application rates for wheat, maize and cotton are below recommended
rates. Low-analysis fertilizers such as highly volatile ammonium bicarbonate
(17 percent N) and low-grade calcium single superphosphate, SSP (12 percent
P205), are the main fertilizer sources. Some urea is being manufactured in
the province but demand is more than supply. To address these shortages, the
project would finance initial incremental needs of inputs and import about
63,500 tons of diammonium phosphate (DAP).  In addition, about 740 tons of
pesticides would be provided to augment provincial efforts in combatting pests
and strengthening IPM measures under the project, particularly for cotton.
About 6,000 tons of plastic resin, to manufacture similar amounts of plastic
film, would be imported to supply plastic film ground covering for early
planting of cotton, maize, paddy nurseries and vegetable seedlings. Locally
produced and imported inputs would be distributed in a timely manner by the
Marketing and Supply Corporation (MSC) at provincial, prefecture, county,
township and village levels and at prices which would cover costs of procure-
ment, transportaticn and distribution. A revolving fund managed by county
PMOs would be established at county ABC branches with proceeds from the sale
of inputs provided by the project to ensure procurement of future needs.
Assuraences to this effect have been obtained at negotiations.
3.11      Seeds.  The project would strengthen the existing seed processing
facilities and institutions and improve the quality of wheat, cotton, maize,
paddy and oil seeds. For cotton, the objective would be to increase the use
of quality seeds from the present level of 35 percent coverage to about 75
percent in the project areas through upgrading and strengthening of 18 seed
farms and two seed companies, renovating and expanding 17 existing ginneries,
and introducing acid delinting technology into the province. Details are as
follows: (i) contracted area for seed production of basic seeds in 18 farms
would be increased from 600 ha to 1,800 ha with an annual incremental seed
production of 927 tons. This would include constructing 23,760 m2 of offices,
dormitories, laboratories, and store houses. In addition, 9,000 m2 of drying
floors; 90 sets of small ginneries; 18 tractors (12-45 hp) and 18 sets of seed
quality control, fire and safety equipment wo ld be provided; (ii) two seed
companies would be strengthened and expanded to increase amounts of processed
and marketed seeds from 400 tons to 2,400 tons annually and would be provided



- 18 -
with 3,800 m2 of store houses, processing shops and drying floors, two 1.5
tons/hr seed cleaners with conveyors, two 5-ton trucks and small items for
equipment renovation and repairs; (iii) 17 existing ginneries would be renova-
ted and expanded to augment the total annual capacity by 12,120 tons of raw
delinted pure seeds, resulting in additional production of 15,800 tons of lint
and 2,424 tons of iinters would be produced.  About 17,000 m2 of seed store
houses would be constructed to store additional seed; (iv) two acid delinting
plants would be constructed, one with a capacity of 2-4 tons/hr and another
with one ton/hr of acid delinted seeds with a total annual production of 6,500
tons of acid delinted pure seeds (single shift); and (v) basic seed growers
would be provided with about 3,000 two-row and four-row secd drills to effec-
tively plant acid delinted pure seed, five trucks for seed distribution and 18
tractors to help contract seed growers with farming operations. In the
Northeast coastal area, the project would support improvement of wheat, paddy,
maize, oil crops and vegetable seeds as follows: (i) three basic seed farms
in Quinhuangdao prefecture would be strengthened and expanded to increase
growing area by 117 ha, and basic paddy seed production by 309 tons/year.
This would enable 1,766 ha to be planted for extension seed; producing about
4,414 tons of seeds annually; and (. ) four seed companies in Tangshan Prefec-
ture would be upgraded to primarily increase improved paddy seed by 3,900 tons
annually.
3.12      Agricultural Extension.  In order to respond to farmers' expecta-
tions from agricultural extension under the production responsibility system,
the project would strengthen agricultural extension at all levels with special
emphasis on county, township and village levels. The project would construct
eight CATECs, six in Heilonggang and two in Northeast coastal areas. At the
township level, 124 Township Technical Service Centers (TTSCs) would be fur-
nished and equipped with necessary extension equipment, including visual aids
and simple soil testing kits. In addition, several existing CATECs and TTSCs
would be expanded, upgraded and supplied with necessary equipment including
veterinary services. Each group of five new TTSCs would be supplied with nec-
essary veterinary equipment and drugs. Training programs for farmers, village
households, township and county technicians would be carried out. Although
different bureaus handle their training programs separately, the project would
promote unified and integrated delivery of services at township and village
levels. Active involvement of national agricultural staff and provincial
scientists at the HAAS and RAU is also envisaged. Particular attention would
be accorded to implementation of IPM programs developed at HAAS and the
National Cotton Center at Anyang, Henan. One county in Handan prefecture
would be selected for disseminating the IPM program.
3.13      Agricultural Research Programs.  Provincial agricultural research
programs would encompass the following: (i) development of improved cotton
varieties; (ii) irrigation and fertilizer applications for cotton; (iii) cot-
ton pests and diseases; (iv) development of small farm machinery; (v) irriga-
tion and fertilizer application and pest control for Chinese dates;
(vi) improving quality of pears and dates; (vii) economics of drip irrigation
for fruit crops in Hebei Province; and (viii) development of high yielding
short season paddy varieties, water and fertilizer application. Cooperating
institutes would be supplied with needed equipment under the project and oper-
ating funds would be supplied by the province.



- 19 -
3.14      Dates/Foodgrain IntercroEPing and Orchards.  Chinese dates (Zizyphus
Juluba) have been a traditional crop in Heilouggang, planted as border strips
or intercropped with foodgrains and cotton. Currently, about 16,000 ha are
intercropped and an additional 20,000 ha would be intercropped in Cangshou
prefecture. About 50,000 households would participate in the program with an
average area of 0.4 balhousehold. Increased production would help in improv-
ing nutrition and alleviating poverty through improved incomes. In addition,
about 1,700 ha of new pear orchards would be established and about 4,000 ha of
existing low yielding pear orchards would be rehabilitated. The county &ad
township Forestry Bureaus would plan and implement the orchard development
component. The project would provide improved healthy planting material of
high yielding varieties with good horticultural quality, agrochemicals and
spraying equipment.
3.15      Agricultural Mechanization.  With the introduction of the production
responsibility system, Agro-Machinery Service Centers' (AMSCs) role in provi-
sion of machinery services decreased and is presently limited to fuel distri-
bution, rental of large tractors and bulldozers, repair services, regulatory
functions of tractor drivers training and issuance of licenses. In the mean-
time, the private sector ownership of small tractors, repair service and per-
forming rental services grew rapidly. Under the project, about 360 AMSCs
would be provided each with 10-ton fuel storage tanks, diesel oil pumping sta-
tion and small equipment. This is to improve efficiency of fuel distribution.
In addition, training programs for trainers of machinery operators would be
strengthened. To serve farmers' interests in the project area, the county
PMOs would establish a revolving fund at ABC with an annual amount of about
Y 1.5 million for the purchase of small farm machinery. The fund would be
administered by ABC in accordance with its prevailing interest rates and teoms
for similar purposes. Assurance to this effect have been obtained at negotia-
tions.
Livestock Development
3.16      Objectives and Strategy.  The primary objectives of the livestock
component would be to accelerate the diversification and improvement of farm
incomes by increasing ruminant livestock output throught (i) improving the
feed base quality, firstly, through expanding the area of alfalfa on waste and
saline land, and, secondly, through expanding the use of ammonia and urea for
the treatment of unpalatable crop straws; (ii) upgrading the quality of the
veterinary and animal husbandry extension services by providing improved
equipment and facilities, staff training and operating systems; (iii) provid-
ing a revolving fund for assisting farmers to invest in expanding livestock
production activities especially beef and sheepigoat breeding and fattening;
and (iv) supporting livestock related research.
3.17      Ammonification of Crop Straws.  The project would expand the ammonia
treatment of surplus crop straws, particularly wheat, tE' increase its palata-
bility and digestibility for ruminant animals (cattle and sheep). Initial
success of the process at Baizing county, through an PAO project, proved that
straw treatment with amonia (25-30 kg NH3/ton of straw) increased crude pro-
tein levels (by about 300 percent) and nutritive value. Small farmers can
obtain similar results by mixing urea and water with the straw in closed plas-
tic bags. Under the project about six new ammonia stations would be estab-
lished and operated by tne Bureau of Animal Husbandry (BAB) in areas wbtre



- 20 -
ammonia is accessible (near fertilizer plants). The stations would provide a
mobile service for specialized households. At full operational capacity (year
3) each station would be expected to handle about 430 tons of ammonia annu-
ally, sufficient to treat about 17,000 tone of straw. Training for BAH staff
would be included under the project.
3.18      Specialized Households and Alfalfa Development.   In Heilonggang
some 290,000 ha of waste and saline land have been identified as suitable for
reclamation through planting alfalfa. The suitability of the highly alkaline
deep loss soils for alfalfa production has been amply demonstrated through
the IFAD-funded project in Nanpi county (para. 1.14) where average yields of
over 5,100 kg dry matter per ha over years 2-5 have been consistently achieved
on previously unproductive land. Already some 60,000 ha of such areas have
been sown to alfalfa. It is being used by specialized households for live-
stock raising--primarily sheep/goats and cattle, but also including geese and
rabbits.
3.19      Under the project nearly 17,000 ha of land would be sown to alfalfa
during the first two years. The land would be leased to qualified farmers on
a long-term basis (15-20 years) by the respective village cooperative. It is
planned that about 1,775 specialized combined sheep and goat breeding and fat-
tening farms each of about eight ha with 50 breeding ewes or kids would be
established. Also, about 600 farms specializing in beef fattening (about 45
heads annually) would be established on the alfalfa areas. Investments would
include land levelling and preparation, alfalfa establishment including seed
and fertilizer, livestock shelters and feed storage, a chaff/straw cutter,
sundry tools and livestock. An assurance has been obtained at negotiations
that a revolving fund in the amount of Y 16.2 million would be established in
county ABC branches under county PMO management, to assist farmers to invest
in expanding livestock production activities, especially for ruminant animal
breeding and fattening.
3.20      Livest.ock Research.  The projec-. would finance a number of livestock
related studies to be conducted by HAU and BAH. These studies would includes
(i) further de -lopment of deep frozen semen collection, proctssing, delivery,
and extension elstems for cattle and sheep. The study would be conducted by
BAB Shijiazhuang Bull Breeding Station; (ii) an applied study of feeding and
management systems for sheep fattening in the high yield cropping areas of
Heilonggang conducted by the BAH Extension Station; (iii) feasibility study of
introducing improved breeds of imported and Chinese sheep and goats for both
meat and cashmere production. The study would be conducted by BAH Institute
of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science; (iv) processing studies of sheep
and goat produced commodities (wool, hides, and cashmere) to be conducted by
HAU; tv) exotic pasture -stablishment and productivity experiments by RAU; and
(vi) development of new techniques to preserve meat at room temperature by
HAU.
3.21      Livestock Training.  In order to reap the envisaged benefits of
helping small farmers through diversification into livestock activities,
effective training and extension programs would constitute an important part
of livestock activities under the project. During project implementation
about 92,000 county, township and village technicians, and 170,000 farmers
(two-day course) would be trained under the project. These training courses
would be conducted by HAU and BAB staff. Facilities provided under the proj-



- 21 -
ect for CATECs and TTSCs would be used. At the township level, for each five
TTSCs, one would be equipped with livestock extension equipment to provide
needed livestock and veterinary services.
3.22      Slaughterhouses and Cold Storage Facil5ties.  The project would sup-
port the construction of six new small slaughterhouses (one in each prefec-
ture) to serve as a model for improving slaughtering facilities and to empha-
size hygienic methods of handling meat and animal by-products. Each slaugh-
terhouse would have the capacity to slaughter 115 animals (mostly pigs) per
day, and each would be equipped with meat packing facilities and cold storage
for 100 tons of product. Each slaughterhouse would produce 1,495 tons of
pork, 115 tons of heads, 69 tons of lard and 620 tons of offal. per year.
Aquaculture
3.23      Aquaculture investments in six counties of Tangshan and Qinhuangdao
prefectures of the Northeast coastal area would include the following subcom-
ponents.
3.24      Shrimp Ponds.  The project would finance the rehabilitation of
3,219 ha of existing shrimp ponds. Special emphasis would be placed on pump-
ing, water distribution, and pond infrastructure. In order to achieve a 10
percent daily water exchange over the pond area, an additional 88 pumps would
be provided. Ponds would be deepened to a minimum depth of 1.8 meters and 706
sluice gates would be reconstructed. Pond dikes would be repaired where nec-
essary, and inlet and outlet canals would be enlarged. The project would also
construct 533 ha of new ponds including 400 ha in Changli county to support a
new shrimp processing plant.
3.25      Freshwater Fishpond Construction.  About 716 ha of freshwater fish-
ponds would be constructed. Since freshwater fish is transported and sold
live, Improvements to transport Infrastructure would be required, and 21.5 km
of pond roads would be built to facilitate access to the existing road net-
work.
3.26      Scallop Production.  In Funing county a pilot project has been rais-
ing scallops, for the last three years, in lanterns (purse nets) suspended
from polyethylene rope, in the Bo Sea. No feeding is involved with scallop
production, and the nutrients are derived as the scallops filter the plankton
and micro-organisms available. The Bo Sea is rich in these organisms, and
80-100 countilb scallop mussels has been successfully raised in one growing
season. The project would finance 2,500 chains,21 and would provide the
docks, work boats and infrastructure necessary to support the scallop produc-
tion.
3.27      Aguaculture Support Facilities.  The hatchery production capacity in
Changli county would be expanded by 2,000 m3, and the Funing scallop project
to 700 m3, providing an additional annual production of 200 million shrimp
post larvae and 122,500 scallop spats. Feed mill capacity would be expanded
by 1,000 tons in Luannan county, and by 3,500 tons in Changli county. New
21   Seventy-fife lanterns suspended from one polyethylene rope make one
"chain*.



. 22 -
cold storage facilities would be constructed in Funing, with 200 tons freezing
capacity, and in Changli with 1,000 tons freezing capacity. Changli county
would employ contact plate freezers, graders and have a large capacity ice
plant. Funing county would also employ a rapid freezing technique to minimize
scallop weight loss, and would utilize improved processing equipment.
3.28      Aguaculture Research Extension and Training.  Aquaculture research
and field tests would be the responsibility of the Hebei Research Institute
and the extension work would be the responsibility of the Agriculture Exten-
sion Station. This work is to improve the feed conversion ratios of the
shrimp farms, and decrease the dependence on imported fishmeal. The extension
work with freshwater fish would improve the carp polyculture techniques, con-
tinue production trials of Tilapia nilotica and intensify yields with the use
of aeration. Training of technical and management staff would be an integral
part of project activities. Training programs would concentrate on shrimp
pond rehabilitation, improving feed efficiency, identification and treatment
of diseases and improvement of processing and marketing. About 1,130 count,
technicians, 5,000 township technicians, 15,000 v,llage technicians, atid
35,000 farmers would be trained in different courses for variable durations
under the project. Study tours for provincial, prefecture and county techni-
cians would also be provided.
Asro-Industries
3.29      The proposed project would facilitate the transfer of international
state-of-the-art technologies and equipment to China for the establishment of
model plants to demonstrate the technical and economic differences between
indigenous and international processes, particularly for the manufacture of
chemical fertilizers, and would also lead to a significant abatement of pollu-
tion levels from the existing plants. Two existing fertilizer plants would be
substantially revamped and expanded to produce urea and MAP fertilizers which
are in short supply. Two other new plants would use cotton straw as the raw
material in particle board and fluting paper manufacturing. A major part of
the technologies and critical equipment required would be procurel through ICB
on a turnkeylsemiturnkey basis and in accordance with Bank appraisal stan-
dards. In view of the large number of obsolete small-size fertilizer plants
in China which require urgent rehabilitation, the two proposed fertilizer
projects may be considered trend setters for similar, but subsector-wide
rationalizationlenergy conservation programs based on advanced international
technologies and high-grade products. Details are as follows.
3.30      Weixian Nitrogenous Fertilizer Plant.  The plant is located in
Handan Prefecture in the Heilonggang area. The expansion, modernization and
partial replacement by advanced processes of an existing coal-based fertilizer
plant to increase its capacity from 15,000 tons per year to 30,000 tons per
year and substitute the existing production of 60,000 tons per year of low
nutrient powder amnonium bicarbonate (17 percent N) with about 53,000 tons per
year of high nutrient granular urea (46 percent N). The local design of the
revamped coal-based ammonia plant would be reviewed by an international con-
sultant to facilitate optimization of process design in terms of energy con-
servation, pollution control and capacity. The urea plant would use advanced
international technology featuring high efficiency and low energy consumption.
A turnkey contract for the supply of technology is envisaged.



- 23 -
3.31      Shenxian Phosphate Fertilizer Plant.  The plant is located at
Qianmotan in Henshui Prefecture and currently produces 25,000 tons per year of
powder single superphosphate (SSP, 12 percent P205). Replacement of an exist-
ing pyrites-roasting sulfuric acid and SSP plant with new facilities to pro-
duce 40,000 tons per year of sulfuric acid and about 30,000 tons per year of
MAP (such as 10-45-0). The ammonia supply for the new product would be pro-
vided by an existing ammonia plant, about 25 km from the project site. All
major processing units (i.e., phosphoric acid, ammoniation and granulation),
except the pyrites-based sulfuric acid plant, would utilize advanced interna-
tional process and equipment technologies to ensure efficient and reliable
operation as well ai adequate pollution control and optimized process econom-
ics.
3.32      Quzhou Particle Board Plant.  A new plant to manufacture 30,000 m31
year of medium density particle board would be constructed under the project,
using cotton stalk as the raw material. The plant would be located in Quzhou
county (Handan Prefecture) which is a major cotton growing area. The process
would be similar to two factories currently being installed in Shandong prov-
ince. The plant would be expected to act as a catalyst to other industries,
and attract further investment in furniture production and related trades,
thereby creating the potential for substantial local employment and industrial
development.
3.33      Weixian Pulp and Paper Plant.  A new pulp and papermill would be
constructed to process cotton stalk into fluting paper for the cartonboard
industry. The plant would produce 10,000 tons/year of fluting paper at full
capacity, and the product would substitute a significant proportion of imports
in Hebei province. This would be the first papermill in China to be speci-
fically constructed for pulping cotton stalk, although the process has been
successfully tested at other mills in Hebei and Shandong provinces. The fac-
tory would be located at Li Jia Zhai village in Xingtai Prefecture. The
annual purchase of 18,000-20,000 tons/year of cotton stalk, which previously
had no commercial value, would improve farmers' income in Wei county where
cotton is the major crop.
3.34      Because of the specialized nature of the agro-industries facilities,
Hebei Fertilizer Corporation and the Department of Light Industry would be
responsible for managing fertilizer and paper manufacturing plants owned by
the counties, respectively. Some overseas training is also envisaged and nec-
essary funds have been included in the project.
Institutional Development
3.35      In addition to supporting research, extension, training programs and
related institutes under each component, the project would also support over-
all project management by providing training and technical assistance to the
PM08 at all levels, particularly to their monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
units. These activities would strengthen project management in cost account-
ing and monitoring, reporting and evaluation systems. In addition, periodic
seminars would be held on agriculture, livestock, aquaculture and agro-indus-
try development to discuss M&E findings and resolve technical and management
problems. Funds have been provided for short-term training and to invite
Chinese experts from appropriate technical and research institutes to advise
PM0s on project implementation. The training programs would be carried out in



- 24 -
accordance with schedules to be agreed at negotiations. Funds for purchase of
needed office equipment and furniture would also be provided.
B. Status of Preparation
3.36      The project is at an advanced stage of preparation.  The basic data
have been collected. Preliminary designs for surface irrigation and some of
the agro-industry facilities have been completed by the concerned agencies and
design institutes and were reviewed by IDA and found to be satisfactory.
Detailed construction drawings are being prepared and would be completed by
September 30, 1990. Detailed designs of civil works, surface irrigation
structures and buildings for major sections of the agroprocessing plants are
being carried out by specialized design institutes. Detailed construction
drawings for civil works and engineering drawings for agroprocessing would
require international consultants and this has been included in the retro-
active financing provisions of the project. Completion of design of said
facilities and preparation of engineering estimates prior to preparation of
the bidding documents would be carried out by December 31, 1990. Sites for
the aquaculture component have been identified and selected by the PMO and the
Provincial Bureau of Aquatic Products on the basis of detailed surveys carried
out by county and prefecture engineers. Site surveys, soil, water and other
required testing have been completed and a survey of construction material has
been completed.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.37      The project would be implemented over a five-year period from 1991
to December 1995 with some activities during 1990. Completion of final
designs for surface irrigation is near completion. In addition, land develop-
ment, civil works and procurement of some equipment is progressing. A consid-
erable amount of work has been scheduled in the first three years for detailed
designing, bidding and construction of agro-industries, training programs,
construction of surface and well irrigation facilities. Some of the training
programs for agricultural development would be implemented throughout the
five-year project implementation period. Operation of agroprocessing
facilities would start toward the end of the third year following completion
of construction. The proposed schedule is considered to be feasible due to
the demonstrated abilities of key engineers, bureaus and design institutes
involved. The Hebei Government has demonstrated its ability in project imple-
mentation in several completed projects, including the recently completed IFAD
agricultural development project.
D. Cost Estimates
3.38      The total project cost is estimated at US$309.6 million with a for-
eign exchange component of US$149.2 million or 48 percent of the total. These
costs include no significant tax element since civil works and buildings are
essentially free of tax, and imported materials and equipment are exempt from
duties. Cost estimates are based on quantities derived from complete prelimi-
nary designs described in para 3.27 and from unit prices currently prevailing
for similar construction works and materials in the province and price lists
of local and overseas manufacturers for plants, machinery and equipment.
Engineering and management costs have been calculated at 2 percent of total
costs of works. Physical contingencies are 10 percent for civil works and



- 25 -
fertilizer plant equipment, and 5 percent for other components, except for
labor and land acquisition for which they are zero. Price contingencies for
both foreign and local costs, when expressed in US dollars, are based on
annual international price escalation rates for all goods and services of 4.9
percent for 1990-95, and when expressed in Yuan are based on price escalation
rates of 14 percent for 1990, 10 percent for 1991, 8 percent for 1992 and 5
percent for 1993-95. Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.2 and detailed
in Annex 1.
Table 8.2: PROJECT COSTs SUMMARY
U                               S
tots                            total
Yuan MilIIon      bar           US$ MII ]on    X  ba"
Local -For-.Iga  Total  cot.   Local Foreign Total FE coot
Water conservancy         268.9  120.6  897.6    82       57.0   27.2   64.2 82   32
Agriculture development    87.1  209.4  206.6    24       10.6   44.4   62.9 71   24
LivesTock davelopmant      86.5   41.1  127.0    10       10.8   8.7   27.0 82   10
Aquaculture               86.1   56.6  140.0    11        18.0   11.6   29.9 40   11
Agro-induatries            S2.5  180.7  281.2    21       19.6   85.7  655.  05   21
Zmetitutlonal development    11.0   4.0   15.0     1       2.5    0.0    8.4 26    1
Total Base Costs      081.9  607.8 1.289.2    100    188.9  126.7  262.6 49  100
Physical contingncie-      82.7   86.8   69.0      6       6.9    7.7   14.6 68    6
Price contingencie        148.6  109.1  262.9    20       19.6   12.8   82.4 40   12
T=otal Project Costs  0.4  752.7 1.681.l   126    16)!4  149.2  809.0 48  110
E. Financin8
3.39       Bank Group financing would be an IDA Credit of SDR 116.1 million
(US$150 million equivalent) and would cover 48 percent of total project costs.
The remaining 52 percent would be financed in US dollar equivalent as followss
USS million
(a)  IDA Credit                                                        150.0
(b)  Provincial Government                                              32.0
(c)  Prefecture and County Governments                                  71.6
(d)  Agricultural Bank of China                                         13.0
(c)  Beneficiaries' Contribution                                        43.0
Total                                                       309.6
F. Procurement
3.40      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:



- 26 -
Table 3.3t PROCUREMENT PROFILE
(US$ million)
Procurement method
Project element                ICB     LIB      LCB    Other     N/A      Total
Land acquisition               -       -        -        -        2.9       2.9
(0.0)     (0.0)
Works                          -       -       39.3     12.1      -        51.4
(12.9)    (2.1)            (15.0)
Nachinery & equipment         44.1     7.0     40.4     28.5      -       120.0
(42.0)   (5.8)   (12.1)    (8.0)             (67.9)
Vehicles                       2.7     -        -        0.7      -         3.4
(2.5)                     (0.0)              (2.5)
Materials                     41.1     -       13.1     45.1      -        99.3
(38.0)            (4.0)   (15.1)             (57.1)
Training & technical           -7.5                               -         7.5
assistance                                            (7.5)              (7.5)
Administration, engineer-      -       -        -        -       10.8      10.8
ing & management                                              (0.0)      (0.0)
Working capital & inter-       -       -        -        -       14.3      14.3
est during construction                                        (0.0)     (0.0)
Total                   87.9      7.0     92.8     93.9    28.0      309.6
(82.5)   (5.8)   (29.0)   (32.7)   (0.0)   (150.0)
Notes Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA Credits.
3.41      Works.  All the works in the project (US$51.4 million) would be
grouped into packages as large as practicable; however, none is expected to
exceed US$200,000. The works are scattered over a wide geographic area and
scheduled too far apart to be of interest to foreign construction firms.
Approximately 76 percent of the work (US$39.3 million) would be procured on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.
Procurement of works for agro-industries would be through LCB. The remaining
works (US$12.1 million), consisting of small canals, drains, land development
and minor site preparation, 'ould be undertaken through labor supervised by
county governments, force account in coordination with prefectures and provin-
cial bureaus.
3.42      Goods.  Project goods consisting of machinery, equipment, vehicles,
and materials are estimated at US$222.7 million. International competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for the agroprocessing equipment, large
pumps and motors, fertilizers, pesticides and some of the construction materi-
als, for a total of US$87.9 million or 39 percent of all goods. A margin of
preference equal to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the
actual custom duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed the
domestic manufactures on ICB. Specialized equipment such as research equip-
ment, water monitoring equipment, and seed processing equipment, up to a value
of US$7.0 million would be procured in a series of packages under limited



- 27 -
international bidding (LIB) procedures. Passenger vehicles estimated at
US$0.7 million are prohibited by government to be imported and would be fully
financed by local funds. Other vehicles such as trucks and specially equipped
motorized vehicles would be procured under ICB procedures. The remaining
goods including small pumps, irrigation equipment, electrical equipment and
small pipe, costing about US$127.8 million (57 percent of all goods) are dis-
persed in location and spread over the project period to the extent that they
would be let in small packages (most less than US$200,000) which would not be
of interest to foreign suppliers. A large portion of this would be for wells,
motors, electrical equipment, and pipes over the broad Heilonggang area pro-
cured by the local farmers (end-users) and spaced over a four-year period.
These goods would be procured through local shopping procedures as described
in the Bank guidelines. Breeding stocks and livestock equipment costing about
US$12.3 million would also be procured locally by farmers. An understanding
has been obtained at negotiations that passenger vehicles would be financed by
the province. A detailed listing of procurement arrangements for goods can be
found in Annex 2, Table 5.
3.43      Other.  Training and technical acsistance would cost a total of
US$7.5 million and would be fully covered Iy IDA funding. Land acquisition,
administration, engineering, management, working capital, and interest during
construction, which amount to US$28.0 million, would be locally funded.
3.44      IDA Review. All procurement packages for works and goods in excess
of US$200,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review. That would cover about
10 percent of the works and about 45 percent of the goods by velue, and would
consist of approximately ten contracts. Assurances have been obtained at
negotiations that all training and technical assistance contracts would be
subject to IDA's prior review and approval which are expected to cover about
five contracts. The procurement schedule (Chart 3) gives detailed projections
on how and when the nine largest packages, which constitute 32 percent of the
goods, would be put to bid. The China National Machinery Import and Export
Corporation (MACHIMPEX) would be retained as the procurement agent for all
machinery and equipment and the International Tendering Corporation (ITC)
would be the agent responsible for the procurement of materials including fer-
tilizers and pesticides.
G. Disbursements
3.45      Disbursements for agroprocessing equipment, construction and farm
machinery, vehicles (except passenger vehicles), and all imported items under
ICB procurement would be 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost, 100 percent
of the ex-factory price for locally manufactured items, and 50 percent of
local expenditures for items under LCB procurement. Disbursement against LCB
contracts for works would be 30 percent of contract expeuditures. Disburse-
ments for overseas training, study tours, consulting services, and contracts
for goods and services would be at 100 percent of total expenditures.
3.46      Disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs)
in cases of overseas training, study tours and consulting services; contracts
for goods and services, each costing less than US$200,000; and force account
work. SOEs for civil works, irrigation and drainage, farm works, and earth-
works would be supported by progress reports showing physical quantities and
unit prices, the latter updated annually and reviewed by IDA.  In the case of



- 28 -
LCB contracts, disbursements would be made against the contracts themselves
and other supporting documents. In order to provide for efficient disburse-
ments, a Special Account would be opened in a bank acceptable to IDA and with
a ceiling of US$8.3 million. Applications for replenishment of the Special
Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. Retroactive
financing of up to US$12.0 million would be made against expenditures made
after December 10, 1989.
3.47      It is estimated that the project would be completed by December 31,
1995 and the closing date wor d be December 31, 1996.  Disbursement experience
in China has been favorable and better than Bank Group averages. The project
disbursement profile is essentially in line with that for investment loans in
China. Estimated schedules of expenditures are given in Annex 2, Table 6.
H. Accounts and Audits
3.48      Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and materials
would be maintained by the county PM0s. These records would be forwarded to
the prefectural PMO0 for submission to the Provincial PMO for review.  The
Provincial PMO would be responsible for submitting the project consolidated
accounts and reports to IDA. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations
that the provincial PNO would mailtain the consolidated accounts of all com-
ponents for auditing annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and
that the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of each financial year. The audited accounts would include details of
withdrawals from the credit account made on the basis of SOEs and auditors'
opinion as to whether such withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for
reimbursement by IDA. The Provincial Audit Bureau would undertake the audit-
ing for the project.
I. Environmental Impact
3.49      In order to provide adequate representation for environmental con-
cerns, the Provincial Environmental Bureau (PEB) would be represented in the
Project Lending Group (PLO) and in the PHO. All effluents would be adequately
treated and suitable effluent control measures have been included in the
design of all agro-industries plants to meet internationally acceptable emis-
sion and effluent standards. Also the PEB would approve the final arrange-
ments for waste disposal and would set up and maintain a system of monitoring
effluent quality throughout the life of the project. Water quality would be
maintained by WCB and effective salinity control measures would be implemen-
ted. The IPM system approach developed at the National Cotton Research Insti-
tute (Anyang, Henan) and other provincial research institutes would be experi-
mented with on a large scale in one of the counties of Handan Prefecture
(Heilonggang) and then extended to other project areas. Imported agrochemi-
cals would be approved by the Bank prior to their procurement. Assurances
have been obtained at negotiations that all effluents from agroprocessing
plants would be adequately treated and that the PEB would clear the final
designs of the treatment plants and would establish and maintain a system of
monitoring effluent quality through the life of the project.



- 29 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMENT
A. Proiect Organizatioa
4.1       The Government of Hebei would be responsible for overall project
implementation. Representatives from concerned agencies and bureaus have been
assigned to serve in the Project Leadiug Group (PLG) and Project Management
Office (P1O). Presently, 25 senior staff members with support staff, consti-
tute the provincial PMO under the chairmanship of the Hebei Vice Governor, who
is also the chairman of the PLG. PLC is composed of senior officials to guide
the PMO in project policy matters at all levels.  Similar arrangements, i.e.,
PLOw and PMOs, would also be established at prefecture and county levels to
chart project policies and Implementation, respectively. PLGs would be
chaired by the Vice Governor at the provincial level, the Prefecture Chief or
Mayor at manicipality/city level and county chiefs at the county level. In
addition, Scientiiic and Technical Committees (STCs) to make recommendations
and policies on technical aspects would be established. Similar STCs at the
prefecture and county level may be formed as needed. Following project com-
pletion, all PM0 functions and responsibilities would revert back to relevant
agencies. The organization for project implementation is shown in Chart 2.
4.2       Project LeadinR GrouDs (PLGO).  Membership of the PLGs, at province,
prefecture and county levels would be comprised of representatives from the
Bureaus of Agriculture, Water Conservancy, Forestry, Animal Husbandry, Aquatic
Products, Environment, Light Industry, Planning and Finance; Hebei Fertilizer
Corporation, ABC and other agencies involved in the project.
4.3       Project Manatemnat Offices (P1(0).  P10 would be established at
provincial, prefecture and county levels and would be responsible for project
Implementation under the guidance of each PLG at the respective level. Each
P1O would be staffed with trained and qualified technical, administrative,
financial and management officers. The PMOs would have a primary function of
assisting each agency or entity in implementing related project components.
In addition, the P1M0 woulds (i) draw up annual, detailed work programs and
budgets for the project; (ii) review and approve lower level PM0 work plans;
(iii) monitor physical and financial progress of the project; (iv) ciordinate
and supervise project implementation; (v) review and approve technical speci-
fications for agro-industries, water conservancy, development of agricultural,
livestock and aquatic products; (vi) liaise with central and provincial agen-
cies regarding project implementation (e.g., procurement, planning, finance,
marketing, etc.); (vii) undertake procurement matters with the advice of ITC
and MACHIMPEX; (viii) prepare detailed project accounts, audits and progress
reports; and (ix) submit withdrawal applications to IDA. The PMOs at each
level would also liaise between the project and various technical and finan-
cial organizations that have support functions for the project (e.g., ABC).
4.4       Scientific and Technical Committees (STCs).  To advise PLGs and Pmos
at all levels, STCs, composed of technical specialists in all areas of project
related activities, would be established at the provincial level and other
levels as needed. STCs would be involved in planning and designing technical
aspects of the project, including international training programs and techni-
cal assistance. Periodic meetings between STCs and PMOs would be undertaken
to review technical plans and formulate future ones. Membership of the STCs



- 30 -
would be composed of eminent scientists from cooperating research institutes
and managers of provincial bureaus and other agencies involved in the project.
B. ManaeSent of Production Activities
4.5       Crops a4nd Livestock.  The Bureaus of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry
and Forestry at the provincial, prefectural and county levels would be respon-
sible for supervising production activities throughout the life of the proj-
ect. The BAG through the PM0 would also coordinate water conservancy activi-
ties with WCB. Seed companies, organized as independent units under the
county agriculture bureaus, would implement and manage the seed component and
supply farmers with seeds of improved crops varieties; fruit tree seedlings
would be provided by the local forestry bureaus or through the seed companies.
Fertilizers and pesticides would be available for purchase primarily through
the Supply and Marketing Corporation ($KC) and its branches at the prefecture
and county levels. SMC would manage supply of inputs at the grassroots level
in accordance with allocation plans drawn up by the agriculture bureaus and
the PMO8. With guidance from HAAS and the HAU, the BAG and BAR would provide
technical extension and training to project area farmers. In addition to the
four revolving funds established in ABC under the project for farm inputs;
livestock activities; wells and water-saving pipes; and farm machinery, ABC
would extend additional credit from their own resources. Assurances have been
obtainrd at negotiations that all revolving funds would be managed by the
county PM0s and established at ABC branches and that loans to farmers would be
at interest rates no less than ABC's prevailing rates at similar terms and for
similar purposes.
4.6       Aouaculture.  The implementation and supervision of aquaculture
activities would be under the general guidance of the Aquatic Products Bureau
with most of the units being implemented and managed by the Aquatic Products
Company (APC) at each county and the Hebei Aquaculture Corporation (HAC).
APCs were established in 1950 and would be responsible for commrcial opera-
tions including operating of feedmills, cold stores, processing plants and
marketing of aquatic products. HAC would have overall provincial responsibil-
ity for the breeding and production operations. Service units such as hatch-
eries, feedmills, processing and cold storage plants would operate as indepen-
dent units directly under the county APCs. The county companies would make
contracts with individuals or groups entrusting them with responsibility for
one or several fish or shrimp ponds or scallop chains. The company farm mana-
gers would make contractual agreements with the respective individuals or
grotps for the supply of growing stock, feed and other essential services.
4.7       Agro-Industries.  All agro-industries would be owned by the respec-
tive counties and managed by independent managers. Responsibility for the
four plants would rest with the economic commission for the respective coun-
ties (under the Provincial Planning Commission). Technical supervision would
be provided by the Hebei Fertilizer Corporation, the Forest Products Institute
(Beijing): and the Hebei Chemical Design Institute. The particle board and
fluting paper plants would be the responsibility of the Hebei Bureau of Light
Industry. The Chengdu Design Institute of the Ministry of Light Industry
would have the primary responsibility for the design of the two plants. The
slaughterhouses and cold storage facilities would be managed by the BAH.



- 31 -
4.8       The management responsibility system would be adopted in managing
all independent enterprises under the project. These independent enterprises
are economic entities with legal status to operate as profitable business con-
cerns with managers being responsible for profits and losses. Charters, busi-
ness licenses and operating guidelines have been issued for existing enter-
prises. Preliminary review of these guidelines by IDA was undertaken during
appraisal and PMO is preparing charters, business licenses and operating
guidelines for new enterprises. Review of these documents for existing enter-
prises as well as new ones to be established under the project would be under-
taken and finalized during the project launch workshop (para. 4.15). An
assurance has been obtained at negotiations that draft operational guidelines
for the new agro-industries enterprises would be reviewed by IDA before final-
ization and they would be managed by trained, qualified and experienced staff.
These enterprises sho-ild be financially sound, and maintain at all times a
debt-equity ratio no treater than 5*1.
C. Financial Management
4.9       Flow of Funds.  The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed againes.
expenditures for equipment; materials; earthworks and civil works for canals,
drairs, and structures; overseas training, study tours and consulting ser-
vices. Proceeds of the credit would be passed internally by the Ministry of
Finance (MOP) to the Hebei Provincial Government at an interest rate of 5.5
percent with repayment over 15 years including a five-year grace period. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by the provincial government. Most IDA
funds would be disbursed directly to vendors under standard ICB arrangements.
An additional portion would be used by the provincial government to cover the
costs of research, technical assistance and training. IDA funds to be onlent
for aquaculture, irrigation, livestock, seeds and agroprocessing components by
the provincial government to prefectures, and by the latter to the project
counties and enterprises would be onlent at interest rates no less than ABC
prevailing rates. An assurance to that effect has been obtained at negotia-
tions.
4.10      Domestic funds, which account for 52 percent of project costs, would
be contributed by the provincial, prefecture and county governments and proj-
ect beneficiaries, which would contribute either in cash or in kind (e.g.,
labor and organic manure). PMOs would receive their funds through the respec-
tive bureau of finance at each level. PMOs would use ABC as their fiscal
agent with the latter bearing no credit risk. ABC would also recover subloans
extended to project beneficiaries. ABC would not charge fees on its services
to the PMOs but would recover its costs through an agreed commission on funds
disbursed and recovered.
4.11      A project agreement incorporating all project terms and conditions
would be signed between IDA and the Hebei Provincial Government. State Coun-
cil approval of the Project Agreement as well as the Development Credit Agree-
ment (DCA) would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
4.12      Recovery of Project Investments.  Local branches of the ABC would be
responsible for both disbursement and recovery of funds from project benefici-
aries. Full recovery of the IDA portion of total project funding would be
guaranteed by the financial bureaus of the counties and prefectures partici-
pating in the project. Counties would repay prefectures which would repay the



- 32 -
province which, in turn,  ould repay MOF for the use of the ID credit.
Domestic funds would be returned to the respective financial county bureau,
except funds from the four revolving funds which would be returned to each
fund respectively to maintain its viability and continuity.
D. Execution of Proiect Works
4.13      Major civil works construction for surface irrigation and agropro-
cessing plants would be contracted to local companies under LCB procedures.
Construction contracts would be signed between the construction companies and
the provincial PMO which would be responeible for contract management. Pre-
fecture and county governments would organize local farm labor to carry out
earthworks, erect small structures, land leveling, land development and pond
construction and rehabilitation. Construo:tion of buildings and minor civil
works for agriculture development, livestock, aquaculture and agroprocessing
would be undertaken by enterprises through local contractors or direct labor
contracts. Assembly of agro-industries equipment, some of which would be on a
turnkey contract, would be undertaken through ICB. Coordination of civil
works construction and equipment assembly would be the primary responsibility
of the concerned enterprise. An assurance has been obtained at negotiations
that the provincial PMQ would submit an annual budget, financing arrangement
and program of works for new construction to IDA for review by December 31 of
each year in respect of work to be carried out in the following year.
S. Operation and Maintenance
4.14      Operation and maintenance (O&M) of the water conservancy component
would be performed by a combination of WCB staff and the water users. In the
case of the widely scattered new shallow wells and water-saving pipes, the
individual group of farmers assigned a new well or a new distribution system
would directly perform all O W activities. At present there is no surcharge
made for the resource use of the groundwater. The surface water irrigation
systems are all upgrades or expansions of existing schemes with established
organizations under the WCB within the prefecture, county and township to per-
form the primary O&M functions. The project includes acquisition of addi-
tional OWM equipment to strengthen their capability. The costs for the OMM in
each of the 14 subcomponents vould be met by a combination of water use fees
and some form of contributed water user labor (either free or partial wage).
The present rates would in most cases be revised in accordance with the MWR
guidelines. Existing fees of 0.0Z to 0.06 yuan per cubic meter are not ade-
quate and would need to be raised to Y 0.08 to cover the planned full recovery
of all O&M costs plus near or full capital recovery. The need for strengthen-
ing the OUM procedures for the new pumping stations in Handan and Xingtai pre-
fectures has been recognized as extremely important and a O&M plan for these
pump stations would be prepared and reviewed with IDA prior to initiation of
operations. This document would record equipment characteristics and manufac-
turers' recommendations, outline procedures for operation, define maintenance
schedules and specify responsibilities for making repairs. Staff, organiza-
tion and policies for setting aside the necessary funding for the OUM program
for these important facilities vould be provided. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that revised O0M guidelines for the pumping stations
and a review of water charges for surface schemes would be submitted for IDA's
review by December 31, 1991.



- 33 -
F. Proiect Launch Workshop
4.15      To initiate implementation and review of detailed design particu-
larly for water conservancy and agro-industries components, IDA and local
staff would conduct a project Launch workshop in Shijiazhuang in October 1990
for Staff of the provincial, prefectural and county PMOs. The purpose of the
workshop would be to review the total program for implementation and to cla-
rify tasks and responsibilities at each level. Topics to be covered would
include procurement and disbursement procedures, financial management, and
monitoring and evaluation. Special effort would be needed to review final
designs of agro-industries before bidding.
G. Monitoring. Evaluation and Reporting
4.16      The provincial, prefectural, and county PMOe and their M&E units
would monitor the project's progress and evaluate the project's economic and
financial benefits for each component and overall impact. The county PMOs
would keep a correct account of physical and financial progress of each of the
project components. Physical indicators would include such items as civil
works and earthworks to be completed, equipmp-t and materials to be procured.
Financial reports would detail project expenditures and support claims for
disbursement against credit proceeds. Information on financial and physical
progress would be submitted semiannually to the prefectural PMO, which would
prepare and forward progress reports to the provincial PMO according to each
component. Routine monitoring of physical and financial progress would enable
PMOs to identify problems and make adjustments as required in the project's
implementation arrangements. Monitoring of water resources by WCB would be an
important part of PMO's activities. The synthesis and assembly of needed
information to expand and refine provincial water resources planning would be
an important goal, which would be documented in a mid-term report indicating
future water resource availability. A list of key monitoring indicators for
physical progress and project expenditures and a plan for IDA supervision are
given in Annex 3, lables 9 and 10.
4.17      As part of the process of oroject evaluation, a baseline survey in
selected project areas and of randomly selected beneficiaries would be under-
taken by the provincial PMO and its M&E unit in cooperation with the Agricul-
ture Economic Research Institute at Beijing (CAAS. Beijing). Draft parameters
and questionnaires for the baseline survey and standardized reporting systems
by the PMO would be agreed upon and finalized during negotiations. Progress
reports prepared by the PMO would be forwarded to IDA every six months and a
mid-term review for the project by June 30, 199? would be undertaken by the
PMO to assess progress and chart Implementation of the project in the remain-
ing period. Review of the water resources planning would take place at that
time. The final, broad assessment of the project's implementation would be
the basis for preparing a project completion report by PMO to be submitted to
IDA no later than six months following the completion of the credit's dis-
bursement. Assurances to the above have been obtained at negotiations.



- 34 -
V. PRODUCTION. MARRETS AND PRICES
A. Production
5.1       The project would principally increase output in two ways:  (a) by
significantly increasing the yields of all crops through improved irrigation,
inputs and extension and (b) by adjusting the typical cropping pattern,
through new technology and irrigation, to allow relay cropping of wheat and
cotton, and wheat and paddy.
Crop Yields and Production
S.2       Crop yields would increase substantially with the project due to
improved irrigation and drainage, introduction and dissemination of improved
high yielding varieties, provision of needed and modern inputs and strength-
cred programs of research, extension and training. The incremental yield from
rainfed to fully irrigated areas in the two project areas would reach full
development in three years after completion of irrigation (Annex 3, Table
1.1). In Heilonggang, the yield of wheat would increase with the project from
1.3 to 4 t/ha; cotton (ginned) from 0.6 to 1.1 t/ha and maize from 1.2 to
4.0 tlha. Wheat and maize yields in the Northeast area are currently higher
than in the Heilonggang area, and even with the project, would continue to be
different. 'heat yield would increase with the project from 2.2 to 4.2 tlha
and maize from 2.6 to 4.2 tlha. These yields have been achieved in the proj-
ect area and under similar conditions under the North China Plain Project.
Cropping Patterns
5.3       The cropping pattern in the Heilonggang project area is typically
wheat-based. Cotton is planted as a single crop at present because of limited
water availability and the long maturation periods of existing wheat and cot-
ton varieties. It therefore competes with grains for land. With new, early
maturing wheat and the improved, short-growing-period spring cotton and
improved irrigation, the existing cropping pattern could be adjusted and a
large increase in cotton production would take place. The new cropping system
would be extended to about 100,000 ha in Handan and Xingtai prefectures. The
cropping intensity would be modestly increased from 141 percent to 145 percent
(Annex 3, Table 1.2).
5.4       The planting of Chinese dates, alfalfa and pears would change the
cropping pattern in the Heilonggang area. Chinese dates are intercropped with
foodgrains, reducing the area that could be used for grains but benefiting the
grains by providing windbreaks. The yield reduction of wheat due to the date
trees (about 24 percent at full development) is more than compensated by the
value of the dates. Alfalfa would be planted on land with low salinity would
mainly be used for animal feed and soil improvement. In time, after the land
has been reclaimed, it would be suitable for a wider variety of crops. Pear
orchards would be developed on marginal lands and riverbeds.
5.5       The cropping pattern in the Northeast area is similar to that in the
Heilonggang area, with the exception that cotton is not grown and paddy is
widely grown. With the project, 18,800 ha of wasteland would be converted to
cultivation through irrigation and would be cropped with paddy (16,900 ha) and



- 35 -
wheat (1,900 ha). After seven years, the salt content of th6 soil, wilch
would decrease gradually, would permit crop diversification into wheat, oil
crops and vegetables. About 6,000 ha would be planted under the project to
relay cropping of wheat, paddy and vegetables. The addition of wastelands for
single crop production would bring the cropping intensity slightly down from
115 percent to 114 percent. Incremental production of various crops can be
found in Annex 3, Table 1.3.
Livestock
5.6       Lamb, beef, sheep skin, cattle hides and manure would be the outputs
of livestock under the project. Incremental production under the project
would come from breeding and fattening of sheep and cattle using alfalfa, crop
by-products and ammoniated straw. Alfalfa produced from 17,000 ha of saline
land developed under the project would provide high-food-value forage for
sheep and cattle. Expanding the use of ammonia and urea for the treatment of
low-food-value, comparatively unpalatable crop straws of wheat and corn would
enrich them as feed.
5.7       Alfalfa-Based Production.  The production involves converting
wasteland used at present only for rough grazing of village livestock into
alfalfa fields. About 2,375 households would grow alfalfa as an input into
their production of sheep or cattle (1,775 households sheep, 600 cattle).
Alfalfa production would begin in year 2 and peak production of 7,500 tonsiha
of hay would be attained in years 4-5. Each sheep household would develop
120 mu (8 ha) and initially purchase 38 in-lamb breeding ewes and 2 breeding
rams, rising to 50 breeding stock in year 5. Lambing rates would average 300
percent by year 3. Alfalfa would be supplemented with cotton seed cake and
cotton seed hulls during summer months. Each household would produce 129
lambs, 8 cull ewes, 124 kg wool and 26 tons manure. Cattle households would
purchase cattle for fattening, would use alfalfa from 67.5 mu (4.5 ha), would
produce 45 head of finished cattle and 48 tons of manure each year.
5.8       Crop Residue-Based Production.   Cartle and sheep breeding and fat-
tening would also be done by 2,460 households using crop residues. Some would
be new large sized cattle and sheep fattening farms (groups of households)
with all feeds being purchased. Others would be existing crop farmers, who
would use their own crop residues, but even here the bulk of the required feed
would be based on purchased crops straw, as well as agroprocessing by-
products, such as cotton seed cake and wheat bran. All of these households
would be expected to treat crop straw with ammonia or urea to improve its
nutritive value and palatability.
5.9       At full development in year 6, the project would generate 4,388 tons
of beef and 4,597 tons of lamb annually. Recovered animal manure would yield
some 6,900 kg of nitrogen, 1,750 kg of phosphorous and 5,300 kg of potassium
annually. Incremental sheep skins and cattle hides would total 124,200 and
2,900 pieces annually.
Aauaculture
5.10      Shrimp.  The major objective of the shrimp component is to rehabili-
tate a relatively limited area of ponds (a small area of new ponds is also
included) and provide modern production and processing technology so as to



- 36 -
lower costs by increasing productivity, and increase export marketability.
Production of shrimp under the project would come from 3,219 ha of rehabilita-
ted ponds and 533 ha of new ponds. Due to the project's deeper ponds, better
vater control and exchange, and improved feed formulation, the new ponds would
yield 2.0-2.3 t/ha and the rehabilitated ponds would yield 1.8-2.3 t/ha with
an increment of 0.8-1.2 ttha. The total marketed incremental production at
full development would be 3,935 tons (1,106 tons from new ponds and 2,829 tons
from rehabilitated ponds).
5.11      Scallcpe.  The project would expand the Funing scallop production
facilities in the Bo sea to produce 2,500 chains of scallops. Each chain has
75 hanging purse-type lanterns, producing 500 to 600 kg of 5 to 6 cm whole
scallops. This in turn yields 60 to 72 kg of scallop mussel at a 12 percent
conversion rate. At full development, the project would produce 1,250 tons of
scallops with shell (or 150 tons without shell) annually.
5.12      Freshwater Fish.  Fish production under the project would be a poly-
culture system composed of Bighead Silver Carp, Grass Carp, Common Carp and
Tilapia. A one-mu pond would yield 140 kg of Bighead and Silver Carp, 100 kg
of Grass carp, 80 kg of Common Carp and 30 kg of Tilapia. This would give a
yield of fish of 5.25 tlha. Annual production of the project's 716 ha of
freshwater ponds would be around 3,760 tons.
AgroprocessinR
5.13      Livestock Processing.  The project would support the construction of
six small, modern slaughterhouses which, at full capacity, would process 115
animals (mainly pigs) per day for 200 dayslyear. The slaughterhouses would
cut, pack and place in cold storage the major products. Most packaged meat
would be sliced, shredded or cubed for the Chinese cuisine and nonmeat prod-
ucts would be processed off the premises. Each slaughterhouse would produce
1,495 tons of pork, 115 tons of heads, 69 tons of lard and 620 tons of offal
per year.
5.14      Seeds.  The project would support seed farm developpr-cat in both the
Northeast and Beilonggang areas. Paddy seed production (extension seed) is
currently estimated to be 6,247 tlyr. With the project 309 t/yr of foundation
paddy seed would be produced which would provide an additional 4,415 tlyr of
extension seed. Production of cotton extension seed is presently estimated at
15,300 t/yr. The project would provide for the expansion of 18 seed farms,
increasing their area from 600 ha to 1,800 ha for production of 927 t/yr of
foundation cotton seed. This would provide an additional 9,270 t/yr of exten-
sion seed.
5.15      Cotton GinninR.  The project would finance two new acid delinting
plants and the modernization and expansion of seventeen existing ginneries.
These would increase the total annual capacity by 6,500 tlyr of acid delinted
pure seed and 12,120 t/yr of saw delinted pure seed.
A8ro-Industrial Production
5.16      Fertilizer.  The project would support the conversion and expansion
of an existing ammonium bicarbonate plant in Weixian county to a urea plant.
This plant would be classified by Chinesf standards as a medium capacity pro-



- 37 -
duction unit, producing 53,000 t/yr of granular urea from 30,000 tlyr of
anhydrous ammonia annually. The project also would produce 16,500 t of slag,
which would be processed into construction materials, from 35,000 t/yr of
anthracite (hard coal) raw material. The project would help to replace the
existing sulfuric acid and phosphate section of the Shenxian fertilizer plant
with advanced equipment so as to incrementally produce 30,000 tlyr of granu-
lated MAP. By-product pyrite slag 12,000 t/yr woula be sold as cement/slag
construction blocks.
5.17      Particle Board and PaRer.  Tne project would finance investment in
the production of particle board in Quzhou County using cotton stalk as raw
material. The factory would use the county cotton-collection stations as pro-
curement and storage points for cotton stalk. Field stalk (23,400 t/yr) would
be purchased from an estimated 15 to 20 km radius around the plant. The fac-
tory would produce 2,370 tlyr of urea-formaldehyde resin required for particle
board processing in a small plant on site. The product would be standard
1,220 mm x 2,440 mm particle board sheets ranging in the thickness from 4 mm
to 40 mm. The plant would produce 30,000 m3/yr of medium density particle
board. The project would also finance investment in a papermill in Weixian
county to produce fluting paper using cotton stalk. This plant would produce
10,000 t/yr of fluting paper for the packing and cartonboard industries, using
18-20,000 t/yr of cotton stalk as raw material. The process would use ammo-
nium bisulphite for semichemical pulping of the cotton stalk, and the quality
of fluting paper would be equivalent to imported materials. The output from
the Weixian plant would, therefore, amount to about 70 percent of current
imports into Hebei Province.
B. Marketing Channels
Esxport Channels
5.18      China's external trade is conducted by a limited number of state-
owned foreign trade corporations (FTCs) which function under the authority of
the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (MOFERT) and its
provincial-level foreign trade bureaus. National-level FTCs such as the
Cereals, Oils and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation (CEROILS) supported
by its own hierarchy of city offices and provincial branches, conducted all
trading activities directly, from the identification of markets and negotia-
tion of contracts to the procurement of goods from producers and shipment to
buyers. Shrimp would be the only significant exported product in this proj-
ect, beside a small amount of processed dates. Aquatic products produced
under the project would be handled by CEROILs through its Hebei branch. The
PTCs seek buyers mainly at the semiannual Guangzhou (Canton) Trade Fair. Vir-
tually all of China's agricultural exports are marketed through bulk contracts
entered into at these fairs, and this would be true of the shrimp exports pro-
duced in this project.
5.19      A major drawback of this system is that producers face prices nego-
tiated with the FTCs that may have little relationship with world prices. Pro-
ducers have very little contact with foreign buyers since the FTCs are the
predominant points of contact between China and these buyers. This leads to
two serious consequences. First, local producers often do not have access to
all necessary information, thereby limiting their ability to react to market
opportunities. Secondly, the absence of contacts with foreign buyers means



- 38 -
that production enterprises forego much "free technical assistance in matters
such as product quality, other product specifications and new product devel-
opment. While this is the present situation, the foreign trade system is now
undergoing reform, with the Government gradually giving more autonomy in deci-
sion making to provincial-level institutions and exporting firms. In 1988,
authority was given to eight provinces to manage export marketing directly,
and to establish more flexible trade regimes, foreigu exchange allocation sys-
tems and export/import marketing organizations. This has meant a prolifera-
tion of local agencies involved in foreign trade. The project is in the pro-
cess of requesting from the Government the right to export shrimp directly
under a new brand name (para. 5.41).
Domestic Channels
5.20      In general, with the exception of cotton, project producers have an
array of options in marketing their output. They may sell through the state
system under negotiated contract or directly to rural and urban private mar-
kets. All of the cotton crop and 20 percent of the wheat crop must be deliv-
ered to the state at published prices.
5.21      State Agencies.  State marketing of agricultural commodities is
dominated by government bureaus and associated parastatals which operate under
the administrative umbrella of the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). This MOC net-
work consists of three subsystemss (1) commercial bureaus which manage a com-
plex of state food companies responsible for bulk procurement and state food
markets handling retail sales at administrative prices; (2) grain bureaus
which control purchase and processing of food and feed grain; and (3) the
National Inputs Corporation and Supply and Marketing Corporation responsible
for input supply (except feed grain) and purchase of farm products at the
grassroots level. These MOC-administered agencies handle procurement, proces-
sing, transport, storage and domestic sales of almost all major products. The
MOC network has agencies at provincial, prefecture, county and village levels
and plays significant roles in purchasing outputs and supplying inputs to
farmers.
5.22      Private.  Private or "free" market trading has become increasingly
important over the last decade in response to price deregulation and the lift-
ing of restrictions on long-distance trade. Nationally, the number of free
markets doubled during the period of 1978-88, and the value of farm products
sold in these markets increased more than sixfold. In 1988 Hebei had 3,010
private markets, 539 urban and 2,471 rural. Altogether they handle total
sales of Y 7.6 billion.
C. Markets
5.23      There would be no difficulty in finding markets for the incremental
production of the project. Domestic demand for food and raw material is ris-
ing each year due to increasing population and income. With favorable income
elasticities of demand, this promises a secure domestic demand for most nonex-
ported products. The increasing production of village and town enterprises
brought about by the rural reforms has also increased the demand for raw mate-
rials. The supply situation for individual commodities is also generally fav-
orable, except exported shrimp where marketing opportunities continue but
prices have recently softened (para. 5.41). It is expected that most of the



- 39 -
incremental production of the project would be consumed in the project areas
or in nearby urban areas. Small amounts of shrimp, scallops and dates would
be exported. The situation of their markets is as follows:
5.24      Crops.  China has exceeded the grain production record of 1984 in
1989's harvest of 407.9 million tons, after four years of disappointing har-
vests. Nevertheless, China is projected to import about 15 million tons of
wheat and 1.2 million tons of rice in 1989 and 1990. Hebei's 1988 grain pro-
duction was 20.2 million metric tons (5 percent of national production of 394
million tons in 1988). The overall grain supply and demand in Hebei province
has been roughly in balance until recently. Current and projected trends,
however, suggest a steady deterioration with annual deficits forecast to be
about one million tons by 1993. Part of the incremental grain production of
0.5 million tons under the project would go to offset this deficit.
5.25      The national market situation in cotton has also been one of excess
demand in recent years. At present the country's textile industry is operat-
ing well below capacity mainly due to lack of raw materials. While total
national production has increased over the last several years, it has not kept
pace with textile-industry demand, in part fueled by large, heretofore rapidly
expanding textile exports. Total demand for cotton is expected to be 4.5 mil-
lion tons in 1990, with production trailing it at 4.25-4.4 million tons. The
project's incremental production of cotton of 175,000 tons would be less than
4 percent of national production and would supply provincial textile indus-
tries, which are presently experiencing a severe shortage of raw materials.
Incremental production of fruit and vegetables would be marketed within Hebei
or nearby provinces. Chinese dates are consumed widely in China, both fresh
and processed, and are used in large quantities in Chinese medicine. Pro-
cessed dates, in dried and candied forms and as jam and wine, are produced in
quantity for both domestic and international markets. The incremental date
ptoduction of 44,000 tons under the project, which would be marketed without
difficulty, would be supplied to local fresh-fruit markets and to the date
processing plants in Cangzhao, which are now operated below capacity for lack
of raw material. Crop by-products such as cotton seed cake and wheat bran are
used in livestock production. In addition, the project would promote use of
ammoniated wheat and maize straw for feeding ruminant animals, and of cotton
stalks in particle board and fluting paper manufacturing. This would increase
value added of crop by-products.
5.26      Beef, Mutton and Manure.  Beef and mutton produced under the project
would mainly supply domestic markets. Provincial domestic demand for beef and
mutton has been growing, and there would not be any problem in the absorption
of the 8,885 tons of incremental production under the project. Current con-
sumption of nonpork meat in the province is in the range of 200-220,000 tlyr
and a specialized market for nonpork meat exists among the Muslim minority.
Cattle and sheep manure has a ready market in the province. It has been used
widely in crop production and commands a reasonable price.
5.27      Shrimp.  World production was estimated to have been 2.4 million
tons in 1988. The annual growth rate from 1984-88 was 6.2 percent. A growing
part of this production has been the product of mariculture. Total Chinese
shrimp production--both capture and culture--was about 212,500 tons in 1988
(180,000 t cultured and 32,500 t captured), 9 percent of world production.
Total world cultured shrimp production has grown from about 30,000 tons in



- 40 -
1975 (2 percent of world supply) to about 560,000 tons in 1988 (26 percent).
About 400,000 tons of this was produced in China, Indonesia, Thailand and the
Philippines, with the balance mostly from Latin America. China was the lead-
ing producer of cultured shrimp ln the world with a 1989 production estimated
at 185,000 tons. China exported 98,200 tons of shrimp in 1988, 15 percent of
world exports of 660,000 tons and about 46 percent of its total production of
shrimp making her the world's largest exporter. Her major markets are the
United States and Japan, with Europe a potential market.
5.28      The international shrimp market is presently very competitive.
Rapid increases in the world supply of shrimp are being paced by large
increases in the exports of black tiger (Penaeus monodon) shrimp from South-
east Asian countries, primarily Indonesia, Philippines and Thailand. Produc-
tion using extensive technology has a very low cost of production, especially
in Indonesia. The white shrimp varieties produced in China (P. orientalis)
and Latin American countries (P. vannamei), such as Ecuador, Honduras and
Panama, comuand a significant premium over Asien black tiger shrimp, but it is
not known at present what differential would exist in the medium run as
increasingly large supplies of Indonesian black tiger shrimp reach the market.
5.29      The incremental production from the project of around 4,000 t/yr
would represent less than 2 percent of China's present total production and so
would not materially affect either Chinese or world market conditions. About
1,500 tlyr would be exported with the remainder marketed locally. With the
exception of Indonesian black-tiger production, pond-gate cost of production
of white shrimp under the project (evaluated at the official exchange rate)
would be among the world's lowest. Because of this and because of improved
processing and packaging, the output should remain quite profitable for proj-
ect producers even in the event of additional world market price declines. A
detailed analysis of the world shrimp market situation can be found in
Annex 4.
5.30      Scallops and Fish. Most of the project's scallops would be consumed
domestically. The scallops would be sold in both fresh and frozen form. Per
capita consumption of scallops in China in 1988 was 30 g compared to 1,250 g
in Japan. These products are delicacies in the Chinese diet; thus with the
rise in per capita income, it is expected that demand would increase. The
deep freezing and packing facilities provided by the project would enable
these products to be transported to urban markets inside or outside Hebei.
All the carp and tilapia produced under the project would be sold to private
fishmongers at the pond side or would be transported in large wooden tubs
directly to the markets.
5.31      Fertilizers.  Availability of fertilizers is always a constraint for
crop production in China. Fertilizers produced from the factories covered by
the project would have a ready market. It would be sold to farmers, farmer
groups and cooperatives at the factory gate, without the Intervention of sales
agents, at negotiated prices. Purchasers would come and collect fertilizers
from the factories using tractors or donkey carts. The Marketing and Supply
Corporation might also purchase fertilizers from the plant to distribute out-
side the direct collection area and would pay the same price as farmers.
Local industries would continue to buy secondary products, slag, construction
blocks, oxalic acid and liquid ammonia.



- 41 -
5.32      Paper and Board Products.  The Weixian papermill has letters of
intent from five cartonboard manufacturers in Hebei Province for the purchase
of fluting paper up to 22,500 tlyr, more than twice its annual output of
10,000 tlyr at full capacity.  The Department of Light Industry estimates that
annual demand for particle board in Hebei Province is 90,000 m /year, and that
production is currently less than 17,500 m3/year. The full output of the
Quzhou mill would increase local production to 47,500 m3/year, or about 53
percent of local demand. Neither plant would appear to have any difficulty in
marketing its full production capacity.
D. Prices
5.33      China's agricultural price policy over the past decade has focussed
on adjusting procurement prices of goods marketed through the state-run system
and reducing the number of goods subject to state monopoly purchase. While
lifting price controls, the Government has encouraged a more open marketing
system by easing restrictions on private interprovincial trade and sanctioning
establishment of free markets, both retail and wholesale. The sum total of
these measures has been creation of a more diverse and competitive cormercial
environments during the ten years (1978-87) national free market trade
increased from Y 12.5 billion to Y 115.8 billion. Producer prices for grain,
vegetables, fruit, meat and aquatic products have more than doubled over this
period as conmnodities have been traded in tree markets. Consumers, both rural
and urban, have also benefitted from the -ider availability and higher quality
of farm products.
5.34      This success notwithstanding, price liberalization has been associa-
ted with the emergence of several disturbing economic trendss rising infla-
tion, sharp supply and price fluctuations, mounting state expenditures on con-
sumer food subsidies, and growing government involvement in the allocation and
sale of farm inputs. The Government's response has been to reaffirm its com-
mitment to achieving a more market-oriented economy over the long term while
reverting to administrative control of various price bonus programs in the
short run.
5.35      Output Prices.  Grain and oilseeds are priced variously--at contract
prices set by the government, at prices negotiated with state entities and at
prices determined in free markets. Since 1984 the contract procurement system
has been used instead of the quota procurement system. The contract prices
for major commodities are set based on national price policy and have been
rising steadily over the past five years. In 1985, the difference between
market prices and contract prices was small, but by 1988 the steadily growing
gap between contract and free market prices resulted in the following free
market premiat wheat 60 percent, maize 75 percent, soybean 85 percent and pea-
nuts 100 percent. Negotiated prices, generally higher than contract and lower
than market prices, have recently been almost 15 percent below market prices.
5.36      In Hebei, grains are mainly sold at negotiated prices (wheat 80 per-
cent, paddy 80 percent, corn 75 percent, soybeans, peanuts and millet 90 per-
cent). Only 10-20 percent of wheat and paddy were sold at contract or market
prices. Many farmers prefer to sell through negotiated channels rather than
the free market, since transportation and handling is normally provided by
purchasers. The quantity of grain sold through free markets for grain is thus



- 42 -
still small. In contrast to grains, fruits, vegetables, aquatic products and
livestock products are mostly sold in the free market.
5.37      Cotton Prices.  Cotton lint is the only product under the project
which is still subject to 100 percent state contract purchase at prices
announced annually by the government, with farmers required to produce accord-
Ing to production quotas. The price of cotton was fixed at Y 2.91kg from 1984
to 1988. These low prices were primarily responsible for a decline in Hebei
cotton production from 1 million tons in 1984 to 0.57 million tons in 1988,
with the result that provincial textile industries are operating below capa-
city due to a shortage of raw materials. The Government has been aware of
this problem and provided other incentives, such as providing fertilizer and
fuel at subsidized prices, while maintaining stable cotton producer prices.
These nonprice incentives were not sufficient to induce farmers to expand pro-
duction up to the previous level. In 1988, the Hebei Provincial Price Bureau
conducted price studies and made recommendations to the National Price Bureau,
which resulted in the decision to increase prices to Y 4.71kg in 1989 and
Y 6/kg in 1990. Since the decision for price increases is at the national
level, it is important that the Provincial Price Bureau continues to communi-
cate cotton price analyses and recommendations annually, prior to the setting
of cotton prices by the National Price Bureau. An understanding has been
obtained at negotiations that cotton price reviews would be undertaken each
year and that the results and Provincial recommendations would be communicated
to the National Price Bureau and IDA. The project would provide Hebei cotton
farmers with two important galns, increased yield through irrigation, new
technology and high nutrient fertilizer and increased cropping intensity
through relay cropping. With these productivity gains, it is expected that
project farmers would allocate part of the land under various wheat rotations
to relay cropping of wheat and cotton and also maintain cotton acreage at cur-
rent levels.
5.38      ShrimD Prices. At current prices, Chinese production of shrimp con-
tinues to be profitable, but already low world shrimp prices may turn lower,
depending on how rapidly Indonesian and other Southeast Asian producers of
tiger shrimp expand and how cross-elastic with superior white shrimp it proves
to be in the main export markets. While China is competitive in white shrimp
(not considering the special products tax it now imposes on shrimp), extensive
production of P. monodon in Indonesia could drive the price toward the
Indonesian pond-side cost of production, now estimated at US$2.00/kg head on,
compared with January 1990 US$2.59 and US$4.51/kg cost of production for
Chinese and Ecuadorean semi-intensive production of white shrimp, respec-
tively. It is a prime objective of the shrimp component to produce a consis-
tently high-quality product, which, if it obtains brand recognition in export
markets, could narrow or close the current 15-20 percent discount off
Ecuadorean shrimp that Chinese shrimp draws in the US market and thereby coun-
ter some of the likely future general price decline. The development of a
separate brand for the project's output therefore is an important goal of the
project, which would be evaluated after the operation of processing facilities
and training programs.
5.39      Imported Input Prices.  Farm inputs, which are mostly distributed
through the state-run distribution system, continue to be underpriced in the
project area and throughout China. For example, prices of urea and DAP are
sold at 30 percent below border prices. The most serious part of this system



- 43 -
is the limited availability of inputs, which are mostly tied with contract
procurement of grain or cotton. The project would finance the import of fer-
tilizer and pesticides for project farmers. It has been agreed that these
inputs would be distributed to project farmers by local levels of the SMC.
Assurance has been obtained at negotiations that the SMC branches would act as
agents for the PM08 and would charge the farmers a price reflecting the cost
of imports plus distribution margins and that the provincial PMO would review
annually the resale price of imported fertilizer and pesticides and communi-
cate this review to IDA. This is intended to avoid the problem cf subsidized
prices and depleted fertilizer revolving fund.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1       The major benefits of the project are incremental production, which
vould result from the investment and new technology, and increased rural
incomes. The crop development component of the project would provide incre-
mental annual production of 520,000 tons of grains (wheat, maize and paddy),
valued net of on-farm costs at US$56 million (1990 dollars); 175,000 tons of
cotton valued at US$111 million; 10,000 tons of oil crops valued at US$1 mil-
lion; 88,000 tons of vegetables valued at US$6.5 millions; 44,000 tons of
dates valued at US$25 million and 70,000 tons of pears valued at US$10.5 mil-
lion. In total, the crop component would generate incremental value of US$210
million annually. The aquaculture component of the project would produce
annual incremental output valued at US$5 million, net of production costs,
mostly by rehabilitating existing shrimp ponds but also by constructing a lim-
ited number of new ponds for se-rimp and freshwater fish and facilities for
scallop production. The livestock component of the project would provide
incremental production of mutton, beef, wool, hide, skin and manure net of
production costs of US$7 million annually. The agro-industrial (fertilizers,
board. paper) and agroprocessing (slaughterhouses, feedmills and cold stores)
plants would produce total value added of US$8 million per annum and would
create a demand for cotton stalk, providing additional income of about US$0.7
million to project farmers.
B. Employment and Incomes
6.2       Employment.  Opportunities generated by the project would help
reduce existing seasonal underemployment among the rural force in and around
the project areas. Livestock activities would create 5,400 full-time jobs for
employed labor and nearly 5,500 full-time jobs for family labor. For the
Northeast area, full time jobs would be created for 5,540 aquaculture produc-
tion families and approximately 1,500 in related processing, cold stores and
feed mills. In the Heilonggang area, farming activities of the project in
irrigated areas would increase annual demand for labor by about 76 million
person-days (200,000 person-years). The labor increase would come mainly from
the general -:&crease in labor intensity of agriculture (6.5 million person-
days), from the substitution of cotton for other crops (61 million person-
days), and from the increased cropping intensity due to the newly enabled
relay cropping (8.5 million person-days). In the Northeast, labor increase
would come from the new rice acreage on former wasteland (5 million person-



- 44 -
days). Date and pear production would require additional labor of 0.9 million
person-days. The agro-industrial activities would create about 9,130 full-
time jobs.
6.3       Incomes and Poverty Alleviation.  In addition to the substantial
employment effect, the improved cultural practices introduced under the proj-
ect would markedly increase labor productivity and incomes to project benefi-
ciaries, most of whom presently have incomes below the provincial average.
Average 1987 per-capita rural incomes in Northeast and Heilonggang of Y 405
(US$109) and Y 378 (US$102) were significautly lower than the provincial rural
average of Y 440 (US$118), which, in turn was about half of Hebei's urban per-
capita income of Y 855 (US$230). Even within the project areas, some counties
had significantly lower incomess in Heilonggang the two poorest counties had
an average per-capita income of Y 250 (US$67) and the next 13 counties an
average per-capita income of Y 350 (US$94). The Northeast's higher income is
due to better crop yields and to the existence of some industrial activity.
Remote project counties in the Northeast, however, have per capita income
about 20 percent below the average.
6.4       The project would more than double the incomes of the 480,000 bene-
ficiary farm families in Heilonggang. Farm model analysis shows that farm
income would increase from Y 1,120 (US$237) at present to Y 2,370 (US$502)
with the project and the average return per person-day would increase from Y 6
to Y 10. Per-capita income would increase from Y 280 (US$59) to Y 593
(US$126) (Annex 3, Table 3.1). The 18,000 households who would integrate
livestock in their farming activities under the project would have additional
farm income ranging from Y 430 (US$91) to Y 730 (US$155). The 50,000 families
who would intercrop dates with wheat would earn additional farm income of
Y 408 (US$86). The 62,500 families who would develop and rehabilitate pear
orchards would earn additional farm income of Y 878 (US$186) annually.
6.5       In the Northeast, under the project, 60,000 families would be allo-
cated 4 mu each of additional land reclaimed from wasteland for rice produc-
tion. The farm model analysis show that family incomes would increase from
Y 1,195 (US$253) to Y 2,857 (US$605), the average return per person-day would
increase from Y 9 to Y 11, and per-capita income would increase from Y 299
(US$63) to Y 714 (US$151) (Annex 3, Table 3.2). This would also be a change
from well below to well above the provincial rural average income. The 5,540
aquaculture families with new full-time jobs would earn Y 2,500 per family or
Y 625 (US$132) per capita.
C. EmPloyment Opportunities for Women
3.6       The major social benefit derived from the project, apart from pov-
erty alleviation, is the generation of employment opportunities for women in
the poor Heilouggang area. Substantial female employment would be created in
the cotton production and processing. Harvesting of cotton is primarily done
by women. Incremental production of cotton in the project would require about
5.8 million person-days of picking workers. This figure can be translated
into about 145,000 female casual workers (40 days per season). Textile indus-
tries would also employ more workers as the raw material constraint is
relaxed, but no precise estimate is available. Seed cotton production under
the project would hire 990 women. Since the raising of small livestock is
mainly done by wamen, raising sheep would engage about 9,000 women. Incremen..



- 45 -
tal female employment in new processing activities, such as cotton seed pro-
cessing, meat packing, date processing, and shrimp and scallop packing, would
be approximately 4,500 women. The four agro-industrial plants would employ
about 400 women.
D. Cost Recovery
6.7       Cost recovery for this project would have several major elements.
Almost Y 250 million vould be contributed by beneficiaries in the form of cssh
or labor and would involve no direct cost to the Government. The cost of che-
mical fertilizers, pesticides, plastic film and seeds would be recovered by
payments for these products from beneficiaries. The costs of research and
training (Y 22.2 million) would be recovered through the 5 percent provincial
crop and livestock taxes and the special product taxes for aquaculture and
fruit of 10 percent and 5.75 percent, respectively. (These taxes would apply
to the incremental production of the project.) Services provided by the water
conservancy, farm machinery and veterinary bureaus would be recovered through
service fees. Local government investment in agroprocessing and agro-industry
In the form of equity would be recovered in the normal way from the corres-
ponding share of enterprise profits. Local governments would also benefit
from enterprise profit taxes. Cost recovery for investment in irrigation would
be through labor contributions during project construction and O&M and through
an increase of revenues from water charges (raised from Y 40 to Y 80 per
1,000 m3) which would recover 100 percent of the cash OEM, power and capital
costs of the irrigation works. The cost recovery analysis in Annex 3, Table 4
shows that at present tax rates, project charges would be sufficient to cover
project costs with a recovery index of 80 percent. Rent recovery at full
development averages 43 percent. Discounted over the life of the project, the
rent recovery index averages 45 percent. These rates show that the public
authority would be able to capture almost half of the surplus that farmers
would receive above the minimum return necessary to induce them to participate
in the project.
E. Financial and Economic AnalTses
6.8       Financial Analysis. Financial analysis has been done separately for
the crop (water conservancy and agricultural development), livestock and aqua-
culture components of the project. Investment and production costs are valued
at 1990 prices. Water cost is estimated at Y 0.081m3. Labor includes family
labor valued at Y 6/person-day. Outputs of crops are valued at the weighted
average of contract, negotiated and market prices. Prices for livestock and
aquaculture products are the prevailing market prices less transportation and
handling costs to reflect the farm-gate prices. The analysis of each compo-
nent is as follows.
6.9       Crop. A per-hectare crop budget analysis for cotton, wheat, paddy,
soybeans, maize, peanuts, millet and vegetables, has been done without project
(rainfed) and with project (full irrigation) for Heilonggang and Northeast
separately. The result shows substantial annual incremental net benefits of
all crops ranging from Y 725 to Y 9,916 per ha. This is a percentage increase
ranging from 54 percent to 250 percent (Annex 3, Tables 2.1-2.2). Financial
analyses have been carried out for investment in date intercropping and pear
orchard development and rehabilitation, and they show high FRRs--42 percent,
48 percent and 76 percent, respectively.



- 46 -
6.10      Livestock.  Financial analysis has been carried out on a model basis
for various livestock farms in the project areas. The analyses show positive
cash flow after debt service and high rates of return ranging from 24 percent
to 68 percent (Annex 3, Table 5.1) and detailed analysis can be found in the
project files.
6.11      Anuaculture.  Financial analysis has been carried out for rehabili-
tated shrimp ponds, new shrimp ponds, new fishponds and scallop production
separately and by production county. In estimating financial costs, all
investment costs related to the establishment of hatcheries and pumping sta-
tions, as well as investment costs for technical support, have been taken into
consieeration. Investment cost is estimated at about Y 17,300/ha for rehabil-
itated ponds, Y 40,000/ha for new ponds and Y 3,700/chain for scallop facili-
ties. Annual production costs are estimated at about Y 24,000 and Y 15,000/ha
for shrimp and fish, and Y 470/chain for scallops. The analyses show high
rates of return ranging from 40 percent to 56 percent and positive cash flow
after debt services (Annex 3, Table 5.2).
6.12      Agro-Industrial and Asroprocessint Plants.  Financial analysis has
been carried out for the fertilizer plants, the particle board mill, the paper
mill, the slaughterhouses and cold stores separately. Investment includes
plant design, land purchase, construction of infrastructure and buildings, and
equipment. The investment is evaluated over a 20-year period, except that
certain equipment is replaced at shorter intervals. Production costs take
Into account technical assistance, management, marketing and training costs.
All investment shows high financial rates of return ranging from 18 to 39 per-
cent. Cash flow analysis has also been done. All processing plants show
positive cash flow after debt service. Detailed analysis can be found in the
project files.
Economic Analysis
6.13      Economic analysis has been carried out for the principal components
(crops, livestock, aquaculture, date intercropping and pear) and for the proj-
ect as a whole, using constant 1990 border prices. In carrying out the analy-
sis for the project as a whole, the agroprocessing and seed components have
been excluded since these activities provide inputs to farms, and their prod-
ucts, i.e., fertilizer and seeds, would be charged at border prices to the
project. Some commodities have processing costs, e.g., paddy, cotton lint,
beef and mutton. Processing costs have been estimated based on similar exist-
ing operations and are deducted in the calculation of farm-gate prices in
border-price terms. All other investment costs along with physical contingen-
cies have been taken into account in estimating the economic costs of the
project.
6.14      World Bank price projections or average export prices actually rea-
lized by China were used to estimate the farm-gate economic prices in 1990
constant terms for traded inputs and outputs. Economic prices for nontraded
goods were estimated using conversion factors (summarized in Annex 3, Table
6). These conversion factors were estimated based on an analysis of the
deviation of social opportunity cost from the actual financial prices prevail-
Ing in hebei caused by taxes and price distortions in nontraded goods. All
economic values were converted to local currency at the prevailing official



- 47 -
exchange rate of Y 4.72 to US$1. Farm and unskilled labor has been valued at
Y 4.8 per person-day, representing 80 percent of the prevailing average wage
rate of about Y 6/person-day in the project areas. Based on the above, the
results of the economic analysis are in Annex 3, Table 8.1 and summarized as
follows.
6.15      Crops.  Incremental costs and benefits for water conservancy and
agriculture development as a whole have been estimated "with' and *without'
the project, except for the wasteland paddy development. (In the latter case,
siace there are no crops presently produced and the opportunity cost for the
land is very small, full rather than incremental costs and benefits have been
used.) Incremental costs include all investment costs plus physical contin-
gencies, incremental O&M costs and water pumping costs for both wells and sur-
face irrigation. Fertilizer, pesticides and other inputs to be used in the
project are costed at farm-gate economic prices. All farm labor including
family labor has been taken into consideration in calculating the ERR. Incre-
mental benefits, including by-products are estimated on the basis of average
yield projections from representative average cropping patterns 'with" and
'without' the project. Economic prices for crops and principal inputs are sum-
marized in Annex 3, Tables 7.1-7.2.
6.16      Based on the above assumptions, and a 20-year period of analysis,
the ERR of the crop development component is estimated at 34 percent. The
relatively high return reflects the existence of sunk costs and the resulting
relatively low per-hectare investment costs. This component is not rendered
unprof.table by significant changes in costs and benefits: incremental yields
would need to be 18 percent lower than those estimated and incremental costs
22 percent higher for the ERR to fall to 12 percent.
6.17      Livestock.  Economic analyses have been carried out for the cattle
and sheep subcomponents, as well as for the livestock component as a whole.
The values of by-products were taken into consideration when computing eco-
nomic farm-gate prices. The prices were based on average export prices for
the different categories of meat and the average import price of greasy wool,
adjusted for domestic transport and handling costs. The costs of alfalfa pro-
duction and the upgrading of technical and veterinary support services were
included. Based on these assumptions, the ERRs have been estimated: 41 per-
cent for the sheep subcomponent, 33 percent for the cattle subcomponent and 33
percent for the livestock component as a whole. Sensitivity analysis shows
that the livestock component is relatively sensitive to changes in benefits
and costss 10 percent lower incremental benefits, or 11 percent higher incre-
mental costs, would reduce the total component ERR to 12 percent.
6.18      Aquaculture.  Separate economic rates of return have been estimated
for the shrimp, scallop and fish subcomponents and for the aquaculture compo-
nent as a whole. All investment costs related to establishment and rehabili-
tation of the shrimp and fish ponds and the scallop facilities, including
costs of maintenance of facilities and costs for management and technical sup-
port, have been included in the analysis. The economic farm-gate price for
shrimp was derived on the basis of actual export prices received for Chinese
shrimp in the US market in January 1990, adjusted for transportation and
handling costs. Due to the soft market for shrimp, it is assumed that a
reduction in this already low January 1990 farm-gate price by 6 percent per
annum for the next five years and that the price would remain constant at the



- 48 -
1995 level from 1995 onwards (see Annex 4). For scallops and fish, economic
prices are derived from actual financial prices. The shrimp feed economic
price was estimated on the basis of the economic prices of the component ele-
ments and estimated milling and other costs (Annex 3, Table 7.3). On this
basis, an ERR of 30 percent has been estimated for the shrimp component, and
ERRs of 63 percent and 28 percent for the scallop and fish subcomponents. The
total aquaculture component's ERR is estimated at 30 percent. Sensitivity
analyses shows that aquaculture benefits would need to fall by 16 percent and
costs would need to increase by 19 percent for the total component ERR to fall
to 12 percent.
6.19      Dates and Pears.  Economic analyses have been carried out for date
intercropping with wheat and new and rehabilitated pear orchards. Costs,
including development and operating costs inclusive of family labor, were con-
verted to economif costs using the concepts described above. The farm-gate
econoadc prices of dates were based on prices received by the FTC adjusted for
transpertation and handling costs. The farm-gate pear price was derived from
the 1989 Hebei market price adjusted for transportation and handling costs.
It is assumed that date trees have a production life of 20 years. Under the
above assumptions, dates and pears have ERRs of 43 percent and 54 percent,
respectively. The date and pear subcomponents are not very sensitive to
changes in benefits or costs: benefits have to fall by 88 percent and costs
have to rise by 520 percent before the date subcomponent would have an ERR
equal to 12 percent. Benefits would have to fall Dy 69 percent and costs
(which are inherently low) would have to rise by 225 percent before the pear
subcomponent would have an ERR of 12 percent.
6.20      Total Project.  Based on the above analyses, the total project eco-
nomic rate of return is 32 percent.  Its net present value (at a 12 percent
discount rate) is Y 1,545 million.
F. Risk
6.21      There are no major risks in the project.  The Provincial Government
is highly coamitted to it. Potential risks have been minimizeds (i) the risk
that the VCB would manage its water resources poorly and not provide adequate
amounts of water for both irrigation and agroprocessing has been minimized by
investing in training of staff and by establishing a monitoring and evaluation
unit in the VCB, (ii) the possible risk of aquifer depletion is minimized by
limiting the number of new wells under the project until year 1993, after the
WCB completes the analysis of how to balance water demand and supply without
aquifer depletion and recommends future investment in water resource develop-
ment and allocation, (iii) the risk of greater-than-anticipated shrimp export
market weakness is minimized as a project concern, since the shrimp subcompo-
nent is very small and there is a large unsatisfied domestic market, and
(iv) the risk of inadequate price incentives for cotton is lessened by recent
major procurement price increases and by the establishing an annual cotton
price review and a channel for provincial input into National Price Bureau
policy-making.



- 49 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMEN9ATIONS
7.1       At negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the Hebei Prov-
incial Government that:
(a) four separate revolving funds would be established and maintained at
ABC fort (i) wells and water-saving pipes (para. 3.6); (ii) farm
inputs (para. 3.10); (iii) farm machinery (para. 3.15); and
(iv) livestock activities (para. 3.19). These funds would be man-
aged by PMOs. Loans to farmers would be at interest rates no less
than ABC's prevailing rates at similar terms and for similar pur-
poses (para. 4.5);
(b) no new irrigation wells other than those under the project would be
drilled until the final assessment of the groundwater resources has
been made (para. 3.8);
(c) results of water monitoring, the water resource development plan,
and related research would be compiled as they become available, and
discussed with IDA, PMO and WCB (para. 3.9);
(d) overseas training and study tours would need IDA's prior review and
approval (para. 3.44);
(e) provincial PMO would establish and maintain the consolidated
accounts of all components for auditing annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial
year. The audited accounts would include details of withdrawals
from the credit account made on the basis of SOEs and auditors' opi-
nions as to whether such withdrawals were against expenditures eli-
gible for reimbursement by IDA. The Provincial Audit Bureau would
undertake the auditing for the project (para. 3.48);
(f) imported agrochemicals would be approved by IDA prior to their pro-
curement, that all effluents from agroprocessing plants would be
adequately treated, that the PEB would clear the final designs of
the treatment plants and would set up and maintain a system of moni-
toring effluent quality through the life of the project (para.
3.49);
(g) draft operational guidelines for the new enterprises would be
reviewed by IDA before finalization and that they would be managed
by trained, qualified and experienced staff. These enterprises
should be financially sound and that they maintain at all times a
debt equity ratio no greater than 5:1 (para. 4.8);
(h) funds onlent to project enterprises and final beneficiaries would be
at interest rates no less than ABC prevailing rates (para. 4.9);
(i) provincial PMO would submit an annual budget, financing arrangements
and program of works for new construction to IDA for review by



- 50 -
December 31 of each year In respect of work to be carried out In the
following year (para. 4.13);
(j)  revised O&M guidelines for the pumping stations and a review of
water charges for surface schemes would be submitted for IDA's
review by December 31, 1991 (para. 4.14):
(k) provincial PM0 would (i) prepare progress reports to be forwarded to
IDA every six months, (ii) undertake a mid-term review by June 30,
1993 and a review of the water resources investment plan, and
(1ii) prepare a project completion report to be submitted to IDA no
later than six months following the completion of the credit's dis-
bursement (para. 4.17): and
(1)  SMC and its branches would act as agents for PM0 and would charge
farmers a price reflecting the cost of import plus distribution mar-
gins and that PM0 would review the resale price of imported inputs
and communicate this review to IDA (para. 5.39).
7.2       Understandings have been reached at negotiations thats  (i) all pas-
senger vehicles would be financed by the province (para. 3.42); and (ii) a
review of cotton prices would be undertaken each year and the results and rec-
ommendations would be communicated to the National Price Bureau and IDA (para.
5.37).
7.3       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 116.1 million (US$150 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity to the People's
Republic of China.



- 51 -
Annex 1
Table 1
HEIE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPLE"T PROJECT
ole  Provinclal and Projet Area Statistles
Projoet County              %
NoelX    -- - - - ---                             of
Item/D"cription           unit    Province  Northseat  Hotlooggang   Total   Province
Total Lend Area           GOOOhe      19,699         So1        8,1'"       4,049        21
Total Arabi* Land         00OOhn       7,68          418        2,258       2,69         85
Total Cultivated Land    '00Ghb        6,577         867        2,194       2,661        89
Irrigsted Are             00Oh.       8,60          215        1,854       1,109        44
Forest                   '00Gbe        8,180          88           98         186         6
Grosland                  'OOha          162         198           58         246        29
Population:
Total                     1,000       57,100       2,992       15,559      10,651        a2
Agriculture                1,000      46,784       2,781       14,617      17,800        86
- Farm Laborer           1,000       21,642       1,297        6,128       7,416        84
- Families               1,000       12,048         748        8,462       4,196        85
Township                   No.         8,874         224          o6        1,10        82
Administrative Vilog"    1,000         5,046         844        1,641       1,65        89
Crop Areas:
Weat                      '000 ha      2,850          28        1,005       1,026        44
Rice                     '000 he         125          71            0          71        57
Corn                     '000 ha       1,08$          51         652          688        82
Cotton                   '000 ha         025           9          564         598        72
Oil Crops                 '000 ho        627          87          142         170        29
Vegetbles                '000 ha         264          16           77          98        88
Fruit ireeo               'oG he         146           2            6           6         6
Livestock Population:
Cattle                  '000 hoed      1,812         101          409         510        28
Sheep                   '000 hed       4,645          e1          726         607        18
Cost                    '000 head      4,912         157        1,407       1,564        82
PIg                     '000 hed      18,686         667        2,660       8,747        27
Poultry                 '000 head    104,060       6,612       81,179      8770         s8
Rabbit                   '000 head    10,880         561        6,205       5,608        8o
Production:
Gralns                     tooot      19,200       l,608        5,2sa       6,96        s8
Cotton                    'COOt          628           6          460         460        78
Oil Crops                 '000o          660          54          1S5         209        80
eat                        too'0       1,009          TO          164         254        25
Fruit                      'Oot        2,002         110          6S0         770        s8
Aquatic Product.           'OOOt         179          98            4         100        Se
Total GVAO:
Crops                    Yuan M       12,1609      1,268        6,880       6,824        54
Fruits                   Yuan 1        1,611          76          502         676        se
Forest                   Yuan U          66a          28          109         182        19
Livestock                Yuan U        4,868         414        1,147       1,561       s8
Fisheries                Yuvn U          429         112           11         128        29
Per Capita Inco           Yun            444         405          870



CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PCCRAM
...........................
Ctimatic Data
................................................................................................. ....................................................................................................................  ..... ....
Iteu/Location                Jan         Feb        Nar         Apr         may         Jun         Jul         AUg         Sep         Oct         Nov        Dec
............................................................................................................ ......................................................................................................... 
IRAINFALL C )                                                                                                                                                               total
MeNtonggang Region               3.S         5.7        10.2       26.6        39.7        90.5       206.1       188.9        47.4        24.4         9.4         S.1      657.5
North Coastal Region             3.3         6.8         9.4       25.S        25.4        60.4       172.8       137.0        43.8        29.6        13.9         4.5      532.4
.................................................................................................................................. ................................................................................... 
EVAPORATION  (u)                                                                                                                                                            Tott
Ne ionggmg Region              48.2        67.?       152.7       241.8       818.4       345.4       223.0       176.9       161.8       132.0        72.9       46.4    2487.2
North Coastal Regfon           48.8        S9.1       120.9       208.2       279.4       233.5       177.9       169.2       169.2       135.5        82.5        55.6    1739.8
................................ ............................................................................................................................................ 
TEMPERATURE (deg.C)                                                                                                                                                       Average
............                                                                                                                                                               ................ ...
Hellongo ang Region            -3.8        -1.1         6.1        14.1        20.8        25.7        26.8        25.3        20.3        13.8         5.4        -1.6       12.7
North Coastal Region            -5.9        -3.8         3.1        11.5       18.1        22.3        25.0        24.3        19.4        12.3         4.1        -3.7        10.6
.........................................................................................................................................
SUNSIINE (Sours)                                                                                                                                                            total
.........                                                                                                                                                                   ..............
Heilonggang Region            185.3       178.6       218.4       230.5       280.2       271.7       227.8       227.9      222.9       217.9       181.2       178.4    2620.8
North Coastal Region    209.2             204.0       236.6       248.7       280.7       253.6          218      234.4       251.7      238.7       200.3       195.5    2771.4
Sources: Nebei Provincial Plaming Commission
IXa
NI-a



- 53 -
Annex 1
Table 3
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HEBLONGGANG IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS
IRRIGATION APPLIUTtON ESTIMATES FOR HEILO lANG REGION
CRQP     PERCENT  THERETICAL             CHAXGE   VOLUME
OF AREA  EVAP-TRANS          BY QTA    MU/M.
UHEAT           67     5035               -1200      2569
MAIZE           39     4290                 -30      1661
COTTON          26     4980                  80      1316
OTHER           16     4005                   0       6"1
CROPPING       148                     SUJTOTAL      6187
INTENSITY                 EFFECTIVE RAINFALL    3387
CROP REGUtEENT         2800
PERCENT 0   CROP  EFFECTIVE   CROP IRRG
AVERAGE       ET    RAINFALL  REWIREMET
DRY YEAR IRRIGATION               110      6806      3100     3706
WET YEAR IRRIGATION                90      5569      4200      1369
NNUAL   IRRIGATION           RESJIRET           M3/HA.
IRRIGATION METHOD           EFFICIENCY             AVERAGE             DRY                WET             LONG TERM
IN PERCENT             YEAR               YEAR               YEAR               MEAN
WELL WITH PIPE                     90                3111               4118                1S21               3290
WELL WITHOUT PIPE                  65                4308               5702                2105               4555
SURFACE IRRIGATION                 50                5601               7412               2737                5922
PUKP OR STORAGE GATE
PARTIAL SURFACE SYSTEN             SO                2800               3706                1369               2961



- 54 -
Annex 1
APpendix 1
Page 1
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Description of Water Conservancy Component
and Distribution Within Prefectures
1.    Heilonagang Area.  Adequate and reliable water supply is the primary
constraint to expand irrigated area and intensify agricultural production.
Conjunctive use of water resources from surface water supplies and shallow
well aquifers is the key to providing sustainable irrigation water to propel
agricultural development. This would be attained by a two-pronged approach to
improve structures to distribute surface water on a larger area, particularly
in years with above-average rainfall, and providing investments in drilling of
new shallow wells and laying of water-saving distribution pipes. A water
planning for the province's water resources would also be conducted under the
project.
2.    Additional surface water would be brought into the southern portions of
the Heilonggang region by the replacement of four existing pumping stations
from the Wei He River that are nearly inoperable at the present time. The new
pumps would provide additional installed capacity and would add an estimated
225 million im3 of surface water into the region in an average year. In
addition, six sluice gates would be constructed in existing flood drainage
channels to provide temporary surface storage within the project area. The
total storage capacity formed by the gates is 36 million i3. These gates
allow capture of a portion of excess late summer surface runoff to be used as
irrigation the following spring. The surface supplies obtained from gate
impoundments vary from year to yeat depending on the rainfall, but are
valuable in reducing groundwater withdrawals and in providing groundwater
recharge. The locations of the pumping stations and storage gates to be
constructed under the project are shown on Map IBRD No. 22306 and are further
described as follows:
(a)   The Zhongying and Diazhuang Storage Gates in Cangzhou prefecture
would be built across existing large drainage channels and would
have the capacity to impound 33 million m3 of water.
(b)   The Shenghuding and Wangzhuachun Storage Gates in Handan
prefecture would be constructed, having a storage capacity of 3
million m3.



Annex 1
-    -                         Appendix 1
Page 2
(c) The replacement of the Nanlizhuang Pumping Station, consisting of
eight units and having an installed capacity of 12 m3/sec would be
made. This station would pump an average annual volume of about
96 million m3.
(d) Improvements and new canals, control structures, bridges and
irrigation facilities in the partially completed Jianzhuang scheme
would be constructed.
(e)   Two deteriorating pumping stations in lower Handan prefecture
would be replaced with a sinle new pumping station having 13
units and a capacity of 25 m isec. This new pumpinx station
serving the Junliu irrigation scheme would deliver an average
volume of 200 million m annually. Canal lining, control
structure and irrigation svstem improvements would also be
included.
*f) The Chachezui Pumping Station would be replaced with the same
5m3/sec capacity as the original installation.
The total area irrigated each year from these surface supply systems would be
quite variable from year to year but on average, 24,000 ha of former rainfed
lands would receive a full irrigation supply and 122.110 ha would receive
either partial or supplemental irrigation in areas either without irrigation
or which are now served by only wells.
3.    As for drilling of shallow wells, a total of 9,942 new shallow wells
would be drilled and fitted with electric or diesel pumps at a rate of 4.000
wells per year in the first 2.5 years of project implementation until more
detailed assessment of water resources is carried out. These new wells would
be in addition to the 12,000-17,000 shallow wells drilled annually to replace
older wells (about ?2 annually of 230,000 existing wells). The shallow wells
would vary in depth from 30 to 80 m with capacities ranging from 20-40
m3/hour. A typical well system equipped with water-saving pipes and a
capacity of 30 m3/hour would be capable of supplying irrigation to an area of
6.75 ha, i.e., a total of 67,100 ha of rainfed land would be converted to full
irrigation. In order to improve water delivery, closed conduit water-saving
pipes would be installed not only with new shallow wells, but also existing
ones. A total of 6,478 km of concrete pipes would be needed for the new wells
and 3,356 would be installed on existing wells. The pipes would vary in size
from 100-200 mm and would be produced locally with methods that compact low
slump concrete into standard size forms. Ash from coal-fired power plants is
included in the concrete mixture which minimizes the quantity of cement
needed. The pipe can withstand only 2-3 meter of pressure which is adequate
for use in onfarm distribution systems covering small areas. Approximately
3,000 km of pipe per year would be produced and installed under the project.
The water-saving pipes installed on existing wells would reduce water use by
about 352 compared to open ditches, enabling an additional area of 36,300 ha
of rainfed lands to be brought to full irrigation.
4.    In order to maintain funding for new wells and water-saving pipes, a
revolving fund for this purpose with a maximum four-year replenishment cycle



Annex 1
-    -                           Appendlx 1
Page 3
would be established under the project in a separate account in ABC. Farmers
usually make an initial direct investment of 30-501 of well construction cost
and borrow the balance and this practice would be continued under the project.
5.    Northeast Coastal Area.  Surface irrigation systems would be expanded
and upgraded in Tangshan and Qinhuangdao prefectures to capture and utilize
most of the water that presently escapes to the Bo Rai Sea. In Tangshan,
surface water supplies from the Dou He and Luan He rivers are regulated and
interconnected to provide the irrigation water to reclaim scattered wasteland
areas within presently cultivated areas. Structures to be developed under the
project include: (a) the Dou He irrigation system would be expanded with the
construction of two surface reservoirs, Installation of control gates, small
pump units and drainage features to bring 6,200 ha into production; (b) the
Luanxia irrigation system expansion would bring 8,620 ha of new lands into the
irrigated service area with the installation of control and storage gates,
pump units and conveyance facilities. The new area in both the Dou He and
Luanxia schemes would initially be planted with rice, and as the salinity of
the soil is reduced, cropping with wheat and vegetables would be extended over
a portion of the area. The location and sizing of the project facilities and
service areas are shown on Map IBRD No. 22306. In Qinhuangdao prefecture,
four separate irrigation systems would be upgraded to allow lands originally
included in old, partially completed schemes to be served. The initial
systems were constructed in the 19608 and 19708 and did not have adequate
funding to complete all features. In addition, some of the main canals were
constructed over highly pervious soils and were built without lining. These
systems now suffer from high water losses that prevent water delivery to the
lower ends of the original service areas. Works on these existing irrigation
schemes includes
(a)   The Yinging Irrigation System where a 68 km main canal diverts
from the Qinlong River. The connection of the main canal to two
in-line reservoirs would be modified to allow more reliable and
direct irrigation water delivery to downstream users. Lining of 6
km of secondary canals plus extension of the system's branch
canals, laterals and related structures would provide for
expanding the full irrigation service area by approximately 4,000
ha.
(b)   The Yanghexi Irrigation System where the West Canal leading from
the existing Yanghe River storage reservoir would be concrete
lined for about one-half of its 31 km length (about 16 km). In
addition, 6 km of subcanals would be lined and rehabilitation
performed on numerous control structures. This would allow
expansion by 4,660 ha of the full irrigation area.
(c)   The Changli Irrigation System where the existing main canal would
be lined for 3 km. and where the lower portion of the scheme would
be completed by the construction of 17 km of secondary canals,
three main control and storage gates, eight pump lifts and
numerous smaller conveyance and drainage facilities. This would
allow a 4,000 ha expansion of the area to be fully irrigated.



Annex 1
_ 57 -                            Appendix 1
Page 4
(d) The She He scheme where construwAion of a permanent diversion dam,
main canal and distribution system would bring 1,333 ha of rainfed
land under irrigation.
It is estimated that the improvements, system expansions and water-saving
lining on the above systems would expand the irrigated area by a total of
14,000 ha in Qinhuangdao prefecture. The upgraded and new facilities would
also improve water deliveries to existing irrigated areas.



58 -                         ~~~~Annex 2
Table 1.1
HESE) 11O1UIILIURUI 0VLOPMEN? 900J1C1
PRDAlIC COST SUHIART
liiin,t OOOI                                       (US$ I 00Ol
Total  Project                                                                 I total                                           I otal
2friw Saes                                  11 foreign  ease
WcaI   foreign    total    Evchang.  Costs          LocalI   foreign   lotsl I    3chaflge   Costs
A. Motor Conwosency
errigation Develop wt           133.436.8  59,305.5   192. 742 3        3)      16  28.2?0.5  12.564 7  40.835            31       16
molts 8 water Saving Piles      132.io009  55.002.3   19?. 103 3        33      16  27.28?.5  13.171.?  41.759 2          33      1B
Maer Resource Nanaguwnt           2. im 0   3.0359      S. 149 5        59       0      447.9      643. 1   I. 091.O0     59        0
Maasarch Svpourhs                 1.225 0   1. 253 2    2.478 2         51       0      259.5      265.5     525. 0       St        0
Smh-total Matwr Consevancy         261.816. ? 126. 596. 6   397. 473. 3    32      32  S6. 165. 4  21.245.0  84.210 4        32       3?
6. Agriculture
agrK4ct.rltu     Iaoats          20. 725.1I 123. 717. I   144. 442.2    66      12    4.390.9  26.211. 2  30.602 2        66       12
Seeds                           Is.985.?7 86. 461    42.4"a69           62       3    3.) 8"S 5 5".60      8.9 93 0       62        3
AVriC. Stgort Services           32.841. 0  39.409. 6    72.2505 S      55       6    61.91I a   S. 3495S  15.307 3       Ss        6
fruit 0evelopmnt                 10.915 6   9.2467I   20. 162.3        46        2    2.312 6   1.959 1  4.27) 7          46       2
Igric  easearCh                   1.632. 9   1. 314.)   2.94? 2         45       0      3416. 0    276. 5    624.4        45       0
S,h-10tal Agriculture              812. 100. 2 200. 146.92  262.249 1      ?I      23   17. 394.)  42.404 4  S2, 728-S       7)      23
C. fare  "a~ueY                      5. 015. 3   9. 260.9    14. 278.3     65       I    1. 062. 6   1.262. 1  3. 024. 6     65        I
0. Livestock
$1111 eetopeent                  75. 120.3  32. 161.6   107.261 9       30       9   15.9)5.3   6.8)3.9  22.729 2         30       9
bt  Straw Treatment               1.0)8.7     962.      2.001. 3        46       0      220.1      204.0     424.0        66        0
Slaughtitrneuse                  9.S657   7 .596.?    I?. 182. 4        44       I   2.025.6   1. 609 5   3.636 1         44        1
Livestock  osseatch                 793.0     390.6     1. 163. 6      33        0      161.0      82.7      250 6        33       0
S**-*to1taLivestock                86.5117.  41. III S   127. 629.2        32       0   IS. 330. 0   S. 710.1  27.040 I      32       10
SIirio Pandslee                  12.737.6   5.538 6    16.276 2         30       I   2.696.12  1.173 4   3.672.)1         30        I
SIwws  Ponds-Raliab             42. 915. 0  2 t,666. 9    64.563. 9     34       5    9.092. 2   4. 59. 9  13. 63. 0      34       S
Scallop                           1.691.2   4. 182.9    5.674.1         71       0      356.3      6862   1,244.5         ?I        0
S.Upet facilities                12. 758.6  117.218.0    29.974 6       57       2    2.7?03.)1  3.647. 5   8. 350. 5     57        2
fish Ponds                       14.210 2   S.248.1   20. I5&.3         30       2    3.010. 6   1.260.?   4.270.89       30       2
Aquiulture Oesatirch                740.0     941.5     1.681 S        56        0      156.6      1299.     356 2        56S      0
S.h'Tota) Aituaculture              65. 052. 6  SS. 495. 9   14054W6.      39      It   16.019.6  11.7157. 6 29.1777 2       39       It
forti tigr Plants               62.9225. 8 110.282. 1   173. 201.9      64      14   13.33).?1 23.364.9  36. 896.6        64       14
Particle Board Kill              18.S32 0  42.953 0    61.465.1         70       5    2.926.)   9 .100.2  13.026.5        70       S
Pawe Ni))                        11.015.2  15.463.?    26,498.9         58       2    2,333.7   3.280.5   5.614.2         58        2
S*tb-otel Igromilustrites          922473.0 168.718 9   261.191.9          65      21   19.59).?  35.745.5  55.337.3         85       2)
6.Project Mauiagement Office      111.6811.3  4.022.2    is.660.5        25        I   2,561 6ol     52.2   3.360.3         25       1
Total BASELINE COSTS                631,873.9 601.354.9 1.239.228 8          49     t00  133.671.6 126. 676.9 262.548.5        49      100
Physical Contirtgenclee            32.?00.6  36.255. 8    66.956. 5       53       6    6. 926.)   7.681.3  14.609.4        53       6
Pr ice Cont ingencies,            t43.7M..3 109. 134.3  2512.9261.6       43      20   19.574. 7  12.8646.6  32.423. 3      40       12
Iota) PROJECT COSTS                 808.         2 367.0 7 ...74      ------61. 1)2.0--6 12$6  160G.37_4. -4 149., 20,69 63 309.581.   489 ""II'
March 20. 1990 I6.26



- 59 -
Annex 2
Table 1.2
CHINA
Nt811  *IIM?UAIL KVEIOPWiKTtt  PiO,11Ct
IOAtcI COST SUNNAIt
lYuBln I0001                                              U) *0 0
'I Total                                                I total
Heilongagng                                                                I foreign B55*                                           I foreign 8cw
tocal    foreign       lotal      fachane   Costs          Local     foreign   total    £scharwe   Costs
tt:.;SS*t t::ss:StS :S3:;:t.SSt Ss:;Sftt: S:n:ut tS$S *:S:2Sst s.S:SSSZI :z$t*stu*stSst: ins.:
A aitar CtonervaAcy
.... ...... .. ._
Irrigation oel08sant                 7.t82.6  23.0445 4       0.92S 0          28        9   12.263.3   4.t82.5   11.145.8              28        9
lells 4 motor Saving Pipes          132,100.9  65,002 3   IS?,103 3             33        21   21'.987.5  13,771.1  41.759.2             33       21
Rator  esbowce Rlnagmnt               2. 114.0   3.035 6       5. 149 6         59         1       447.9      643.1   1.091.0            59         1
esearch Supports                      1.225 0    1.253 2       2.418 2          51         0       2M9.5      2S 5        S221.0         St        0
Sub-totel water Conservaicy            t3.322.   92.33. S   2S5.65S 0               32       30   40.9182   19.562.8  80.521.0              32        30
S. Agriculture
...........
Wriculmurat 1npuis                   17, 161.2 100.265 3   tl7.426.6            865       12    3.635.9  21.242.1  24.818.5              85        12
Seeds                                14. U132.5  24.368.8     38.01. 3          61         4    2.994.2   S. 162.9   8.t17.1             63        4
Agrec. Si.port Services              27.086.6  34. 154 3    62.040 9            55         I    5.90S .2   7.236. t  13. 144.3           Ss         I
fr'uit oevelopmnt                    10I916.6   9.246.7    20. 162.3            46         2    2.312.6   1. 99. I   4.271 7             48        2
AVric Research                        I.4g8. 4    1.040. 2     2.538. 6         41         0       317.5      220.4       537.8          41        0
.........    ........... ........ ........ ....... .............. ........ ............      ..  .........   ............ .........   ........... .... ......... .... .....
sub-total Agriculture                   71.594.2 169.07S 4   240.669.7              to       26   1S.168.3  35.821.1  0.9*9.3               70       26
C. farm tachitnery                       3.104. I   S.S6t. 3      &8M2. 0           65         1      657.8   1.200. 7   1,J58. 5           6S         I
0. Livestock
SHM Ove lopent                      *1.120.3  32. 161.6   107.281 9              30       11   15.915. 3   6.813.9  22.729.2             30        tl
Am  Straw treatent                    1.038.7       962.?      2.001. 3         48         0       220.1       204.0      424 0          48        0
slaughterhouse                        9.65.?   7.596 7    1t. 12 4              44         2    2,026.6  .1.609.5   3.636.1              44        2
livestock Rksarch                       793.0       390.6       . 183. 6         33        0       168.0        82.1      250.8          33        0
Suhbfotal tLivestock                     6.S11.7  41.111.5    12t.629.2             32        14   18,330.0   8,710.1  27.040.1              32       14
A. groindustries
....... ..........
lertiltMr Plants                   62,925.8 110.282.1   173,20? 9              64        18   13.331.?  23.364.9  36.696 6              64       18
Particle Bord Kill                   18.132.0  42,953.0    61.48S. I            10         7    3.926.3   S.100 2  13.026.5              70        7
Paoer Kill                           11,01t.2  1t.483.7    26.4S8 9             18         3    2.333. 7   3,280.1   S.614 2             SS         3
. ........ ....... ..  ........ ..... ......... ....... .......... .... ..... .. ... ..... ..... I--   ........
Sub-total Agroindustries                92,473.0 168.718.9   261. 191.9             6S       28   I1.S91.7  35.745 5   51.337.3              65       28
f. Project  anagement Office            11.838.3   4.022.2        15,860.5          25        2    2.508.1        852.2   3.360.3           25         2
...... ..... ........... ...........  .............. ........  ............. .. ... ......  ....... .. .. ........... .. .... .
total SASEWttE COSTS                     418,850.6 480.931.7   939.,82.3              S1       100   97.214.1 101,892.3 199,106.4              S1      100
Physical Cantingencies                 20.475.2  27 367.5    47. 842. 57            ?        5    4. 338.0    , 798.2  10. 136.2           ST         S
Price Contingencies                   101 199.7  84,629.9   1851829.7              4S       20   13 694. 1   9,891. 1  23.518.2            42        12
Total PROJECT COSTS                      180,S21.1 692,929.1  1.13.44.                II       12555  121t246.t1 t17;58.6 232,827.8            $1        t
SSSSSSSSS*SSSSSSS*3St;  t*SSSS   Ss;flSSSS;tt::SSSS..:SfSS   Ssa*flSS.  S.flSSt
........... ....................................... ... ... ... .... .....................................................................
Ntbch 20. logo  16:.28



-60 -
Annex 2
Table 1.3
HAitu aootcutluaat ogwctopmut 900dc?
PsoiCI COSt susutr
tlun IOa"l                                           wss loos
...............................................  ....... ..............................
Northeast                                                                         i letal                                            I
' foreign  Base                                       Foretign  las
tocol    foroln   total    latcharqe   Costs    tocal   foroeln   Total   Inchon"ge   Costs
w Mater Conservancy
.... I.............
Itssootion  eetolgpent            *5.554.2  36.260 1 111. 84 3            32       37  16.00t.2  7 682.2 23.869.S            32       3?
Sblotel Water Conwvacy               75.554.2  36.260.  111.814 3            32       37  16.007.2  7.U2.2 23.b89.5             32       37
8   gricultur
Agricultural Iru'ts                3.563.9  23.f4f  8  27.015.5           8?        9      tSS. I 4.968.6  S.123-6           8?        9
Seeds                              1.613 2   2.092 4   3.S45.5           S13               392.6    443.3    835. 9          53         1
Agruc. Sywirt Services             4.954 3   5.255. 3  10.209 7           51        3   1.049 6  I. 113.4  2.153 1           St        3
gr ic fttAsrch                        134 6     274 1       408.7         6?        0       28.5       8. 1     88.6         6?        0
Sub lotul Agriculture                 10.505.9  31.073.5  41.519.4           75       14   2.225.8  L.583.4  8.809.2            75       14
C  form lachinery                      1.910.6   3.593.7   5.504.3           65        2      404.6    761. 4  1. 166 2         6S        2
D. Aquiculture
ShrMP Ponds -Ve                   12.731.6   5.538 6  I8.276 2            30        6   2.698 .   1. 173 4  3.872.1          30        6
Shrem   Ponds-Rebhb               42.9SI.0  21.668. 9  64.583 9           34       22   9.092.2  4.S9S.9 13.683.0            34       22
Scallop                            1.591.2   4,182.9   S.674 I            71        2      3983    N6.2  1.244 5             ?1        2
Suipt facilities                  12.75S 6  17,216.0  29.974 6            S7       10   2,103.1 3,647.5  6.350 S             S7       10
fish Ponds                        14.210.2   S.948 1 20. 158. 3           30        7   3.010 6  1.260.2  4.270.1            30        7
Aquaculturi, Reseach                 740 0      941.5   1 681.5           16        I      t56.8    199.9    356.2           56         I
Sub-lsotal Aacultluo                 89. 052.6  SS.4995.9 140. 148.5         39       47   8. 019 6 t. 757. 6 29. 777.2         39       47
...............    .........  .......... I.... ......... .........    ..........  ............. ........  ..........  ............... ........ .................. ...
Total USEfil13  COStS                  73.023.4 126.423.2 m. 448 .             42      100  36.651.5 28. 184.6 63.442.1           42       1to
Physical Cmntinpcutes               12.225.6   .88S. 3  21.113.8            42        7   2.990.2  1. 83.t  4,473.3            42        7
Price Conil eales                  42.99S2.5S  24.504 4  67.09619          37       22   S.880.7  2.957.5  8.838.1            33       14
,.............   ................. . .......  .... .......... ........ .......... ........ ........ ........... ........ ..... ..
Total PROJCI COStS                    227841.US 159.81S.8 387.65t 3            41      129  45.12863 31.625.2 76.73.5            41      121
33s3a33%3    :3333333;  - 3... 33.3.3.:.33 3   3333333....   33t3..  ** 33 33 3  3i s33.z 33s33:3 .. 33s33z
ac .    0 0.                      .           .............................................
tbrcb 20. 1SSO 16: 30



- 61 -
Annex 2
CHI"                                      Table 2.1
tEIEI a*ulCuIIuRat 0!VILPtEUT PRUOtl
sumwg, acCotuts cost sumIUR
Iluan  0ool                                       IUSs I 000c
S lotal                                          I Total
Total  Project                                                              I Iror.sn  Bass                                  I Foreign Base
1ocaI   foreign    Total    Exchange   Cosls       Ltoal   foreign   total   Exchang    Costs
1. IUVESINEIII cOsTs
................
A. tand Acquisition                      10.437. 3              10.437 3                 t   2.21. 3              2.211 3                  I
B. Civil  wks
Earth Wlorks                           S.969.7  17.801.1    73.7?t 4         24       6   118458.0   3.M1-1'  15.629 5        24       6
Stone morks                           30,420.2  19.85? 9    56.218 1         3I       S    7.716 1  4.20.2  11.923 3          35       5
Concrete Morks                        22. 379. 3 28.471. 8    S0. 851. I              4    4 741. 4   6032.2  10.773 5        56       4
Stib-Total Civil Morks                  114.169.2  66.131.4  180.900 6          31      1S  24.3)t0   14.0109.  38.326.4         31       15
C  PublIc Works A Sui dinQs
.....................
Pmblic Works                          21.622.3  1I.060.9    42. 683. 2       3I       3    S. 2. 2   3.190.9   9.043. 0       3S       3
Bus1d4np                              02.97?  0  44.932 9    97.90S          4*6      8   ti.223.9   9.019.7  20.143.6        46       8
Civil Erection                        17.578.4   8.2716    25.850.0          32       2    3.724.2   1.?02.S  5.416 1         32       2
Sub-Total Public Wtor s 8 Bidings        98.1?? 6 66.265.3   166.443.0          41      IJ  20,800.3  14.463 0  35.263.3         41       13
0.  Ichianry am Equiprint
Agric Equephent                        5.092  0   9.727.8    14. 8M  3       66       I    1.080.0   2. 061. 0   3.141.0      66        I
Irrigation Equipment                  50.987.4  03,073.9   104.061.3        St        8   10.802.4  11.244.5  22.046.9        Si       8
t.vestock Equipiwnt                    4.9)0.4  4.169. 1    9.0U4.5          46       1    1041.4     883.3   1.924 7        46        1
fort. Plant Equip.                    16.956 0 08.324.4    15.20.04          17       6    3.,92.4  12.356.9  15.949.2        77       6
Processing Equipment                  14.996 3  16.315 6    91.311 9        84        7    3,117.2  16.168. 6  19.345 7        4       7
Peterch A Ext. Equip.                 13.633.9  17,345.6    30. 979.        56        2    2.888.0   3. 674 9   6. 6. 4       56       2
Sub-total bechinery an  Equipent        106.586. S 218.9S6 3   325.542.9        67      26  22081.U9  46.38. 1 68.971.0          67      26
I. Vehicles                               t.084.3  12.41I.8    13.000.2         92       1      2".7   2.630.0   2.860.2         92        1
r. fleterals
fertliztrs                             8.682.1  73.920 7   82.602.8         89        1    1.839 4  15.661.2  17.500 6        89       1
Pesticides                             3.792.0  21.977 2    25.169.2        8S        2      803.4   4.6506.2   5.459.6       as       2
latorted NateralIs                    10.394 3  39.6711 9    00.066. 2      *9       4    2,202.2   8.405 1  10,607.2         79       4
D*stic lateriel                      104.202.2  33.142.5   137.344.6        24       11  22.076.7   7.021.?  29.098.4         24       11
Building Naterials                       133.6     200.0        388 6        66       0       28.3      04.0      82.3        66       0
Breading Stock                        42 827.0   6.054.0    48,881.0         12       4    9,073.5   1,282.6  10.356.         12       4
Si-Total tatorails                      1170031.0 175.021.3   34.Q052. 3        St      28   36023.S  37,080.8  73. 104.3        St      28
G. Inc. Maoring Capital                  24.916 0          -   24.S16.0          -       2    S.217,8         -        21J8 8     -       2
tt. Intwest during Const.                14.09. 7  17.881 3   31.947 0          56       3    2.978.8   3.189.?  64768.4         56       3
1. tabor                                  9.t111.2        -   59.1 tt2           -       S   12.623.6            12. 123. 6       -       5
* . training
Desest ic training                    10. 003.   8. 27. 0    18. S80. 5      46       1   2. 130.0  t. 606.6   3.936.5        46        1
Overses Training                         548.8   6.283.1     6.832.0         92       1      116.3   1.331.3   1,447.6        92        1
Training Fort. Plant                     7t3.7  1t420.2      2,133.9         67       0      1tS  2    300.9     402.         67       0
Sub-Total training                       11t.316.60 S6230.8    27.046.8         S9       2    2,397.3    3.438.1   5,836.2       S9       2
R. Technical Assistance                     166.9  2.821.0      2.988O.         94       0       35.4    5971.      633. t       94       0
*. esign 8 ticense fee
....................
License fee                                  -  4.402.8      4.42.8        too      0                 943.4    t343.4       100       0
tngineeringqDuign                      1.926.0  t.t162.6    13.088.6        85        1      408.1   2.360.0   27173.0        85       1
Design Costs                           I,459.9   1,857 4     3.317.3        56        0      309.3    393.0    102.8          56       0
Sib total Design 8 Licens fee             3.38S.9  17.472.6    20.808.?        84        2      717 4   3.101.9   4.419.2        S4       2
11. Other
SProeparts                               279.6   1,422.7      1.702. 3       4       0        09.2     301.4    360.17        84       0
fort. Equip. Spares                      88? 6   2,903.8     3.191.4        11       0       I8I.1    615.2    803.3          7?       0
Freight S Insurance                      180.4  1.857.0      2.037.4        91       0        38.2    393.4      43t.6        91       0
Management                             2.574.0   4.002.5     6.5?6.          SI       t      S40.3    848. 0   1.393.3        6t       t
Others                                13910.t  S   , 966.4   15876.29        12       t   2, 4. 1      416.6  3.363.8         12       t
Sub-total Other                          1?,832.1  12.t12.3    20.S84.4        41        2    3,778.0   2.574.6   6.352.6        41       2
lotal BASELINE COSTS                        631.873.9 6078.34.9 1.239.228.8         49     100  133.t1.6 128.676.9 262,048.5         49      t00
Phlical Contingee sI*                     32 700. 8  36 205. 8    68. 96. 5   5   3       9   6. 928. t *. 681.   14,609.4        53       6
Price Contitngecies                      143.792.3 1t91 34.3  252,926.6         42       20   19.574.7  12 848.6  32.423,3        40      12
Total PROJECT COStS                         808,367 0 702.40.0 .S6t1.It2.0         48 . 126160,7 '.4 t4.,206.8 309,081.2  4---- 4t8 ..""118
itsissGti.,. :sal.,4sax **:S*tSsi*s iiiisasS. *s*lx       ss      S      itssissz  *SSS; l. s. . sa$ .-,
.    ................. .....................................................  .....................................................................
ftWrh 20. t990  t6 2t



- 62 -
Annex 2
Table 2.2
CHNAt
4ES1i5 AGtRCULIURAL DIVEtOPNENt PRO.JCt
SUNARY ACCOUNttS COSt SUNN*R?
(tueat '000I   fUSS * 000
.........................   ............................................
Heilonggang                                                                                      I Total                                                % total
I foreign  Base                                          foreign  Base
Local    Foreign      total        sexharge   Costs      toeal    foreign   Total    Exchageo         Costs
,,,,,:,,: sn,:,:::: SS*:*s:SSSS  * Sii: *,;                S;............................. : ;Xs;.:*  *s::t*,t: ::::s:: :ss::::.:s:: *Sn,,;
I. IttVESthEtIT COSTS
................
A. tand Acquisition                            5,847.2            -     5.847 2                     I    1.2318 a               1.2388            - 
8 Civil Hoilks
Earth Mo'is                                 2.004 4      637 6       2.642 0          24        0       424.7      135. t     559 ?          24        0
Stone o *ks                                 3.4368    t.873 9        5.310.           35                728. 1     39t.0   1.125 0           35         1
Concrete  oarks                             7,600.8   9,670.0    t7.270 7             56        2     1.6t0.3   2. 048.7   3.659 0           56        2
Subts otal Civil Works                        13.042 0  12.181.4    25.223 4             48        3    2.763. 1   2.580 8   6.343 9            48         3
C Public wtoks 8 Buildirns
Public Works                               12.896.4   7.031 7    19.T28. 1            35        2    2.732.3   1.489 8   4.222 0             35        2
Buidind s                                 48.202 7  40.883 6    89.0.6. 2             46        9   t0.212.4  8S.61.8    8.874. 2            46        9
Civil Erection                             17.578.4   8.271 6    25.856.0             32        3    3,724 2   1.152.5   5.476.7             32        3
..... ...... .... ...................... .... ..................................    ......... I............    .........   ...........  -- -- --   -- - - -   -- -- --   -- -- --   -------
Sub-total Public .forks A Buildings           78.677.5  56.186 8    134.864.2            42       14   16.669.0  1I.904.0  28.572 9              42       14
0  Nachinery and Equigpent
.......................
Agric Equipmtent                            3.170 4   6.050 2    . 9.220.6            66        1       671.7   1.281.8   1.953 S            66         1
Irrigation Equipewnt                      41.915.6  43.630.9    865.546.5 S1                    9    8.880.4   9.243.8  18.124. 3            51        9
Livestock Equipment                         4.916 4   4.169.1       9.084 5          46         1    1.041.4       883.3   1.924.7           46         1
Fort  Plant Equip.                         16.956 0  58. 324.4    7S.280. 4           77        8    3.592. 4  12. 356.9  tS.949. 2          77        8
Processing Etuapment                       12. 788. 1  66. 077 8     7. 866.8        84         8    2. 109.3  13. 787 7  16.497 C           84        a
Reseac  S Ext. Equip                       11.656.4  14.829.?    26.486. 0           56         3    2.469.6   3. 140.9   S.611 6            56        3
.........    ............ .................  .......... ............. .........    ........ ....... ---------. ---------   -------. .... .....  .  ..... ...
Sib-Total taehonery and Equipment             91.400 9 192. 082.0   283.483 9            68       30   19.384 8  40.695 3  60.060. 0             6S       30
E. Vehicles                                      755.0   8.644.4        9.399 4          92        1       169.9   1.831.4   1.991.4             92        1
F. ateiails
fertilizers                                 6.939.4  59.083.5    66.022.9            89         7    t.470Q2   12.517.7  03.987.9            89        7
Pesticides                                  2.912.3  16.879. 1    19.791.4           86         2       617 0   3.576. 1   4. 193. 1         8s        2
Itowrted Nateralls                         8.706 4  33.226. 0    41.931.3            79         4    1.844.4   7.039.4   8883.8              79        4
Do st IC  terias                          102.*26.85  32 640.3    135.267.8           24       14   2 .742.9   6.915.5  28.658 4             24        14
Breeding Stock                             42 804. S   6,060.8    48,6SS.3            12        5    9 068.7   1.282.0  10.350.7              12       6
Sob-Total Waterails                          163 98o8.  047,880.7   31t.868 7            47       33   34.743.2  30.330.6  66,073.9             47        33
0. Inc. Harking Capital                       17 976.0                 17 2976 0          -        2    3.,O8.6            -   3.808.5                     2
H. Interest during Const.                     14.059.7  17.887.3    31.947 0             56        3    2.978.8   3.789.7   6,768.4              56        3
1. Labot                                      43. 130.0                43. 030.0          -        S    9. 137.7           -   9. 137. 7          -        6
T. Training
Domestic  training                          8.817.3   7.478.4    16.295.7             46        2    1.868.1   I.S84.4   3.452.6             46        2
Overseas training                             498. 1   5.702.8       6.200.9          92        1       105.5   1.208.2   1.33. 7            92         0
Training fort. Plant                          713.7   1.420.2        2.133.9          67        0       151.2      300.9      452.1          67        0
...........................  ............ ............... .........  ...........  ......... .. ..... ....  ............ ......... ...........  
Sub-total Training                            t0.029.0  14.601.5    24.630.6             69        3    2.124.8   3.093.5   5.216. 3            59         3
K. Technical Assistance                           161.8   2.734. 3      2.896.1          94        0        34.3       6?9.3      613.6         94         0
t. Design A License fee
ticense Fee                                            4.452.8      4.452 8          100        0           -      943.4      943.4         100        0
Engineering Design                          1.926.0  11.162.6    t3.088.6            65         1       408.1   2.366.0   2.773.0            85        1
Design Costs                                  850.9   1.082.6        1.933 6         66         0       180 3      229.4      409.6          56        0
Sub-total Oesign S License Fee                 2.776.9  16.698 0    19.474.9             86        2       588.3   3.537.7   4.126.0            86         2
H Other
Spareparts                                    279.6   1,422.7        1.702 3         84         0        59 2      301.4      360 7          84        0
Fort. Equip. Spares                           887.6   2,903.8       3,791.4          77         0       188 1      606.2      803.3          77        0
freight S Insurance                           180 4   1.857.0       2.037.4          91         0        38.2      393.4      431 6          91        0
Nanagwent                                   2.St4 0   4.002 S        6.76 .5          61        1       545.3      848.0   1,393. 3          6t 0
Others                                     03,084 t   1.849.6    14.933.6             02        2    2.772.0       390.9   3.163.9           12        2
. .......... ..... ........... .... ...._....... . .. .......... ............ .... ........  .........  --------... --------- ---------... -------
Sub-total Othor                               07.005.6  12.035 5    29,040 I             40        3    3.602.S   2.549.9   6.152.8             41         3
....._................... ..............  ........ ........... .........  ...........  .........  ............ ......... ............ ........ .........
Total BASELINE COSTS                             458.50.6 480.931.7   939 782.3              S1      100   97.214.1 101.892 3 199.106 4              St      100
Physical Cont igencws                          20.475.2  27. J37.     47.842. 7           57        5    4,338.0   6,798. 2   0. 136. 2          57         5
Price Contingences                             Oti. 099. 7  84,629.9  186.829.7          46       20   13.6S4.1   9.891. 1  23.585.2            42        12
total PROJECT COSTS                              580.52S.5 592.929 t 1.073.4S4 7             St      125  115.246.1 0l17l6.S6 232.827.8              St      it7
SS;S*SnS ±SS:::tflS :SSSiS$;,,  flfl*S::: t :t SSS*SSS  S**SS    :tSs:zst -SSZSSS*t inn;?::z   siis::
arc 0...                                                  ............ .....    0  .8: 8  .     _    _ _  _                                      .
tlFrch 20. IM9  16:28



- 63 -
Annex 2
Tab le 2. 3
CHINA
HIEBEI A08ICUL TUBAL DivEiOPIIENT PROJECT
SUWIARY ACCOUNTS COSt SUNNANY
IYuan ' 000)                                     (USII *0001
Nlortheast                                                                           I Total                                         I Total
-                                                       N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Foreign  Base        I Foreign  Oslo
toesaI   foreign   Total    Eachange   Costs    LcalI  foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
I. INVESINENt COSTS
A. Land Acquisition                       41.090. 1         -  4.590 1                  2     972.5         - 912.0                     2
B. Civil Works
Earth Works                            53.960.3  17. 164 2  71. 129 S       24      24  11.433 3  3.636.0 IS.069 8         24      24
Stone Morhs                            32. 983 4  17. 984 0  S0.96? 4       30      17  6. 988.0  3.8010. 2 10.798 2       35       17
Concrste Harks                         14. 778 6  t8.8901. 9  33.080. 4     56      It  3. 131 1 3.963. 4  7.114 0         56       Il
Sub,total Civil Morks                    101.12? 2 53.900.0 I00.6?7 3          36      02  21.002.4 11.430. 1 32.082 0        35      02
C. Public Morks S Buildings
Public Ilorks                          14.720.2   8.029.2  22M0  I          30       8   3.119 9  1.701 I 4.821 0          30       8
ButIdle."g                              4.774 3   4.042.4   8.823. 6        46       3   1, 01 1.S    807 9  1.869. 4      46        3
Sub-Total Public Mothks 8 Buildings       I9.500.2  MOTS7  6  31.078 7         38      It  4. 131.4  2.059 0  6.690. 4        38       It
0- Nlhacinery and Equipwnt
Agric Equipmnt                          1.92?.)   3.67? 6  5.604 8          66       2     4048.3    779.2  1.167 4        66       2
Irrigationt Equipment                   9.071.8   9,443.0  135.14.8         II       6   1.92220  2.000 B  3.922.6         01       6
Processing Equipmtent                   2.208. 3  11.23?.8  13,446 I        84       4     467.9  2.3*0.9  2,848 8         84       4
Rtesearch 8 Ext  Equip.                 1.9??. 0   2.515. B   4.493. 3      06       2     419.0    033.0   902.0          08        2
Sub-lotel Nachinery and Equipment         1I. 184 7  258.74 3  42.009.0        64      14  3.2)7.1  0.693.?  8.910 8          84       14
E. Vehicles                                  329.4   3,771.4   4.100. 8        92       1      69.8    799.0   888.8B         92        I
F. Naterails
fertilizers                             1.742.?  14.83?. 3  16.579.9        89       6     369.2  3.143 0  3.512.?         89       8
Pesticides                                879 6   0.098.)   0,977.8         80       2      186.4  1.080.1  1,266.0        80       2
leiorted Natersi Is                     1. 688.9   6.440. 9   8,134.8       79       3     317.8  1. 380.?  1,1723.0S      79       3
0owstl ic Rterial                       1.070.?     001.2   2,0758.         24       I     333.8    106 2    440.0         24        I
Building Materials                        133.6     200.0      388.6        86       0      28.3      04.0     82.3        66        0
Breeding Stock                             22.0       3.2       20.1        12       0       4.68      0?       0 .4        12       0
Sub-Total Rateratis                        6,042.9  27. 140.6  33. 183.5       82      11   1.280.3  0,7S0.1  7,030.4         82       it
G. Inc. Nothing Capital                    6,940.0              6,940.0                 2   1.470.3            1,470.3                  2
II. Labor                                 l50.81. 3         -11.981.?                   1   3. 3*0.9        -3.38509            -       5
I. Training
Dast ic Training                        1,236. 3   1.04805  2.284 8         48       1    261.9    222.1    484.1          46        1
Oveirses Training                          500. I   080.81    631.6         92       0       10.?    123.1    133.8        92        0
Sub-Total Training                         1. 287.0   1.629 4   2.916 4        06       I    272.?    340.2    617 9          08        I
J1. technical Assistance                       0.2      87.2       92.4        94       0        I. I    18.0     19.6        94       0
R. Design S License fee
Design Costs                              609.0     774.8   1,383.8         16       0      129.0    164.2    293.2        08        0
Sub-Total Design 8 License fee               609.0     774.8   1.383.8         06       0      129.0    164.2    293.2        06       0
L. Other
Others                                    826.0     116.8     943 3         12       0      170.1     24.8    199.9         12      0
Sub-Total Other                              828.0     116.8     943.3         12       0      170. 1    24.8    199 9        12       0
Total BASELINE COSTS                         113.023 4 126,423.2 299.446 0         42     100  36.657.0 26.764.6 83,442.1         42      100
Physical Contingencies                     12.225 6  8.888.3  21.113 8          42       7  2,190.2  1.803 1 4.413.3           42        7
Price Contingencies                        42.692.S  24,004.4  07,096.9         3?      22   0,880.7  2,907.05 8.838.tI        33       14
Total PROJIECT COSTS                         227,841.0 159.810.8 387.807.3         41     129  4S. 128.3 31.620.2 76,703.0        41      121
siSi......  liii Z  *:ssS.ssSs -S*sSt*i  ....it %*SS Si..... asisz ......t  S-4:*tiS   ......
Narch 20. 1990 16. 30



CIII. mo  MIC
Mr-c-.                                      W...-                                                     tIuiwtock
Hellouggang.,                                        U01sa     Moeavsp.h VC"01                              SW   4A  t                     fm           s      A    tmItun
546  b  SIt..   ~ t. 11     4010
*Cwsvl bI te
S4wIUo of                              2. 62 0
Sta loollsot                           6  .4 I
U~~~~~~beb.k.  am.                                         .                . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .....   ......  .      .... ..............
I n t  .om om b   copm6                                                                                                              l i n t
fort.pto V                            4.44A        63606P
Peli f      d                                   t. P36  1qi
U640*1 tA  I.,   V *qwpirofl            3Q           e.0        3.4220  1.30 II                 .S I19.44?89.    8.3  0                             .11           . 2         ."       so44
1if131,Nt,                                                    ~~~~~~~            ~          ~~~~~~~~~62.114 4  2.4 fi6 2I7  f.294 I 
34071 4        -              .07        is2                                               - 
lbegmred oblteoo t                                                  I7  S141        41.240?     189                          492 a,                              .. 
SinaI. Notarial                       21. PA?4     9490                                         40. Ito   6  827                                 2.414                                   .
urosutq Slosh                                                                   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"    .  .. ..   .....    4..   63                  43.9....  .......  ....
3*3.3.3 oblaoll.~                       21. 681 4      6.4S"20      62      S"4 7    437426 6    410 4              It. M  3 1   963 a              3.24                                too
*  hIs beAl~44q Capeou                                                                          1. 3794                                                                     I'M97  2400
*Iple t     see Scowl
I 4*04                                    fl."2       38.6046               iw                                      2.00    M90140                                                      7.
ko8t s ttaiseial                                                9234                            to 1414. S446                          449                    126S          89.9
OWttim  14634Mq                                                  "S40                              ..416 S
vp*411649 lfqt PlogI
soll total FroetMq                                                1.469                            332.6049 I.                                                                  9
IL  ftIwoatfsol.t4so~                                               I"  4                         3343    923 6                                                     .6.
I. Dump 8 Irceeoos fee
b,,p Coal.                                                                                      teA                             .                                          9
lob 1o483 bb.,,8 leeomo toe                                             4680  ~~~~~~~~~..   .    ..... ............ .... ..... ......... .
* S    ot  v     I#ova "i4 
or.*1 8 fweerwo,
03*00,                                                1916                    .   3443           .           .         .          7934~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......   .....
t.o t%U3C.to                       6046          4731 1o  I    316  2 416        31tt.4265 IS. SolI 3620409    10.3162 I 2. 6386    6>811,0    4072no39   2.0s 3      It3.3to34   1. In36
total WoU.ll6  CRIS$                       60. 4280    '47 301 I       1 44 6 2476?      33742666 3&0.0  36at. 0409    20 362 I I..34 I    .7120    t07. 281 I  3.00  3           M.0    S.62
04".Co# Ccl . qW.9s4348 6                    84'244       3166 j    41 9      681W1 3.C8110   1. 42  63          I 61  9f0      4363 I     .3049       St I         S"9        *
P. w, Coot                     71 ~~2606%    41.440 4     1811?0    "93      98.6849  4.2233b1.2 47 6      21.3634    6341    1.021 I     Wall a8     so4S9        1,3033     "429
1043  8045   OSCIS tMl00881v0                            "4S47 A   S62310  1.40113        141.u83A644.03959 77) 41 7   222168  3 pi27    3089 to.0on0a"          S."8 S         0823       46. *
lo0'oser   haowp                          3034 14        440182    364 3"6046           264917  1'91%6 410 lo        30to41106  3.1"90    11.811 a6    e 3.S" 2 1. 2.        9 .013 a    4301
bisitlO  4490429 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.     ..............  ......  ............



- 6S-
Annex 2
Tabile 3.1.2
IgEO ntflqSIiO                                                           Pis.catl
,,,,,........      ....... .........    project                                   Cont i. iesc
Fgr    l,er   Prtlel                             lsgeft                            ............
Plants   Bard I11   Papr Noll    Off1e tota                                                ct
ttSaSl           .g.SZSIS    SSS**SS           tSitSz *    SSSSSS.., Sfls.. * a;553 ,,, aS;
750.0 e        0S4.6          615.1                  -         5.^4?. 2       1. 3      7S. 0
-              -               *               *         2. 62. 0   10.0         264. 2
-              .                                         5.310.?    10.0         531. 1
-              '               *               -        17. 2?0.?   10. o    1. M. I
-       25.223.4   10.0   2.522.3
1,520.2         5,414.0 ta*# ?8  I    s *o e16 4
4,933.2         2,520.1                          #1i OJIb '         0   4.044  3
25,650                 -               -                        :'.   0*., O   to 0     . ba   o
25,150        8,743.4         7,96.1                          1i4.864 2    60  8.035 7
*              -                *        0.220.5       s 0       461.0
-- .546.5    5.0   4.27?.3
*   -          -       -                 9.084.S    5.0          454.2
75.280. 4                -               -                        1 .280 4   10.0 o       . 52. 0
-    434451.1        13. 114.                   -       1?.865.8   s5          3.0 83.3
-              -       2.034.6          26.486 1    s.0   1.324.3
.. ................. ............ . . ....... .. ....    .. ........   ...........   ... .. ... .... .
i5.280.4    4345t.   1 13. 114.?                2t034.6         263.483.9    6.3  11.938.2
-        3 A.4          728.3          . 120.5           9 399. 4    S.0         470.0
-              -                -       a 6.022.9    5.0   3.301. 1
*-      19.19.4    5. 0          080.6
-       41,931.3    5.0   2. 06.6
.307.5    135.267.8  S50  6 ?53.4
-               -         8. 48SSS. 3    5. 0   2.442.8
............... .... .......... .. .......... ............. -----------   .......... ..... ........ ........ ........ 
-              *        l.30?.5        311.88.t         5 .   l5.503.4
7.300.0        4.345f2        2. 19.?                   -        l?.7?6.0    0.0            0.0
31.9*-.0                                                 -        31.04?.0    0.0             0.0
- .            -                -       43. 130.0    0.0            0.0
-          66.5           22.2             W7. 5        I6.295.?    0.0             0.0
-          s186.8                          0  .6         6.200.s    0.0             0.0
2. 133.9                .              -                -         2. 133.9   10.          23.4
.............. ................. ............ :..  ............   ---------    ............ ... .... ........
2. 133.9          2M33             22.2           237.1         24.630.5    0.9           213.4
-      1.535. 1           94.0                  -        2.808.1    0.0             0.0
4.452.1                 *              -                -         4.452.8    10.0         445.3
13.0a8.6                 -              -                         13.40l.6    10.0   I. 38 S
-      1.000.,           566.5                 -         1.33.5    0.0              0.0
............... .................... ....... ..........   .............   .............. ... ....... ........
1?.541.4        I.000.9           566.5                  -        1,474.9    0.0   1.754. I
-      1.131.1           303.0                 -         1.?02.3       0.0          0.0
3.1S1.4                                -                -         3.?91.4    10.0         379.1
2.03?.4                                -                -         2.037.4   10.0          203.?
L its 5                 -              -                -         6.576.    1 .0         867. 5
-      1.61?.1           014.3        11.160.8          14.933.6    0.0             0.0
2.405.2         2.is?.o0        1.21; .4       11;   .*.8        22,041.1    4.3   1.240.5
..... ........... .......... ............. ..........   .............. ....... ................ .... ......
3. 20M. 9    61. 4S. I    26.498.9              l5. 60.5        939.1*2.3    5.1 471.842.1
13. 207.0    61.465. 1    26. 408.0               1, 60           030. 782 5.       .  47.842. 7
13. 391. 1      2. 529. 0       I. 0ss 3           223.1         4.,842.?    0.0              0.0
26,052.8       11,080.4         S.097.0          3.s53.9         185.6829.       4.8 8IL a ..o
........*....... ..................... ..........   ............. ...........   ............... .. .... ........
212. 65.8    750. O5 4    32. 65 2               20.031.5   1. '173.454. ?         4. 8 SL 6, 7. ?
nsa,,,,,,  *,.flsSISS  .fsflf                   ,fl...s.S4    sssSzS9 tSS    Si,  StSt lSt
136,044.4    St.S*4.0           1t8,06.3          4.721.8        512.029.I          .4  31,033.6
..................................... ............................................... ,,,,,,,,,,,,.................. 



~~ .,v,c~~.3@wa4  ~~~(..t3   6g..e  4.r.  $ktw~~~~~~   S'w'       ~. .... ..... ....                          Cmtr     N
I 36945)mu1 cosus
A  leaw 6cqPl3o,4                                                       4231                        4.8483us3I27    3,3, 2                                             I ,6.   50  6.0
a  C,vw*) lbs
Iw3bp8,2) 384 a                                                                                 6324 3   3. 030I 328. 0         226 4   6,1336 9             ?I32.1 3S0.01 P.42.0
1Slow florki                         30. 288 a                                                  2.) $14 S    IL803   143 I     .422 4    2,1WI 2             10,6UT..4  0. 0 6066.2
Csca.4oe 004,2  34                                                                                S 1$60    6.034 3  1)3 3    3.M926    3,4012            .33.18OO.4  40.0 3.1184.0
6b30343* Co-*I flooki                   7 368                                                      2.816s     46.104    8 03 3   tO. 04 2   42.0 3"  I         3167S"   3 00  31S.SD. I
C P*Isw N.ths 8 b.3ld..g
P3*1b 11or..                         349422                                                      3.6140 3    3.1116              62 2    2,062. 6                M.22 I 1 .. 1.0 3.18
16. Mos"                                                  2.921 O3.140 3                                    .303 4            ).51) 2                     . 62.    .            0.
Sub-liou$ Pmb),c No.3w a 6rn3ddfp       34 6422       2       .2  0  1.148 3                          g402    4.8162 2). it)2a   2.012 6                        2)1, S"    1S0  3,128.S
* nnsw  ald 3.~~
F3ic 1qa)p.3                                                                 M20   S. 432 8                                                                   6. 4.611   S     M8.1
33't49)36fl 1033~~~~~3'3    4.389g2                                                    3.84        ,2  3   84                  3 .0?.           .  34.IS.8  ".          _ 61.
P.*m.4a, t.opise                                            62086                                                  -.2       3266 24.04.41.                                     1.
Po  IA 84:331t                                                  a 8)                                                     .  itS          .          3.63     O440.2I  1.0      21.
Sombletal Noehias.p ed Iq.np.mn3         4.3tog2                S"06  2.83329   3920   S. 4)2.6a   3,48. 4    S,621.23  442 4   32,21. US.   , 14L.6    3, 611I.S  42.4ON.0  1O.0 1"3t.
I  Vskcles                                                      4992   l3ot                                      640o4  92) 3    3.321 a     1S"6                 4,34.8 1f6S0    266.8
tort  ,n I Is0.'O 4t2? 7                                                       42 2                                                                              sit.   361    S.0 a 820
%St.3ic3n                                           S.9313                     241 S                                                                           S. 1,17.8  1S0    M65              @
t400.1d bl..833Is                                  4.824 6                                                          3.SSO2                                     0.3348 1IS0    465)
commose lbtotosl4.4823                             M02                                   336 3       7is                  .                          O.n1a5 S0    4028
Smt Id**g Notoor is Is                                                                                        204         -      72238.   10                                     34
5.md.q Stock                                                                                           .2 1?                                                      26    S   10   33
1)03e3t5 Itallosit                       t. 4823     2.013.  202%f               356                 3362        283  1316 9       31n2                         22.3M26   10  3.6S"6I
6IWt  morosiag Capital                                                                              414.0    2.461 0   26)4    2.38660    4,1S44 0              LO".640  0 0      0 0
taboo-                                 is. 341                                  100o                    .                          6. 6      170 a             IS."$33   00        .
Doh34c 1t8w.n@O                                                    2.363 I               236.. 2268 00                                                                           0
O.~~~~~~uws.  f.e:ou.g                         6336    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  . .    ..  . .....  . ...  ......  ......  ......         .......    00.   ... 0.
Sub-ota )ta3ftn3g                                                     2.8A24 9                 S 3                                                                2.936.4   0 0     0 0
a3 ?.e3.3ca3 866P13eaC@                                                  94.                                                .                       4                      0 0          00
08K.qhe. 3o.                                                                                       S422        41 4                 S 6                         .2136a  0 0       00
'.' n143 lfvr.q.. 43 I....S" ..                                                                      49         41 4             In7681.                         3.83 8  0.0      0.0
0360,1                                                              .     3)0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io2  43.6'    2.2 I 3I00  37 3  114323  0.5  0.0 
Sib' bedo  gig.                                                                                       VI302      43n.8a    62 I    3100        313                  21432   0.0.    0.0
lotiol 35V.1S?SI Costs                     333.6341 3    21031s6 3.446 30o.206 1   4401    J.104 3   it.its 2   64.98361.67$4.3   2,074 6   26.310.3       ,81.1  213,M.446.1  1.4 23,332.6
local 66113348 Costs                        333.4)4 3    21.03%s 6J.64  1 St0.206 1   4007   S.104e3 J 36.2282   64. us291.614. 3   22.646   20.3663       3.6831 S366 44.1  1.3 23.13326
""no I 81 C.mg...e..                      41a1. 3      3. 310 a 32? 3   3436       319      2706    3 .22?1     1,S.44) 3  3012S   3.116 I   3.11321       64 3  2).I32.   0.0       0.0
PraICI Coa33n Peee                        K .111S a    8. 1.4.A4  606   .04% I    93S    3,803 4   4.092S    30, 9113  9663    S,6M04    3.1414 A          28. 1   51.6666   6.11 4,5.6111.1
tiso*# e6Dci 0911                          363614"94     1% M1) 24%41)4  %3.6?    138i0    8.7763   23.61323   80.680 31.340 0   3M,21  I  24.623    2.24. 2  651.6II11 a  S. 6111So04
t..,.,p fueeuagin                        44 M2  I    10.121 02M  332     16.31    345 0   4.3%4 6    G  6.46   26,422  S. M,633  23,0036    1.3M82      3.24   316,831 .8a  6 6 M4,5.5a
Plore). 30  3810  Is 30



- 67 -
Annex 2
Table 4.1
co[MA,
ItE8Et URIcuttuRt AlEVEta6l0Ett POECI
Projeot Coonnts by yeer
lotals Including Contingencies                                    totals Inclulding Contirg.nes
Heilongganp                                                       (luau 0oI01                                                        USSI 001
gei2      m                     . .. .............. ........................ ..... ........................  . ........ .............. ......... ................ .. .. .............. 
soiS9       91/92      92/93    93/94    94/9v          Total       o90/9      91/92    92/93    93/94    94s/9    lotl
:SflttSt*  stst:;2S.  Inn.;..  s-.,..Sf  *Sn..:..  s.ns..S...  *SSl3aSS  flfltt              SSSt  Sllt  fSatflSS :tSf131   tSSSflS3
a. motor ComnrveIcy
Irrigation O.velopwnt               20. 669.9  33.978.6  33.041 6 19.998 3                   106,882.0   4.278.6  G.662.4  6.342.0  3.639 .I                 20.9t8.8
iblls £ water Saving Pipes           74.893.?  84.325.6  71.73.4 I&.864. a                   24s.928.6   1. 060 16.749.4 13.716.)  3.500.0                -  49.274
water Reso,c. Natraggest              2.839.?   1.418.1   1.135.6         419.6                G6,213.0      981.9      360.1    218.0        778              1244.9S
Research Suipport-                    ).476.8 9     97 3       325.2    331.2    331. 1          . 063.9     306.2      16S.       62.4       61.4    59.4       608.0
,,,,,,,,,,.  . .. ..... .... ..... ......... ........ ........ .... ........ .......... .. ...... ......... . ... ... .    . ..... ........ .
Sub-total  aiter Conservency            99.877 6 120.3S0.6 106.279.6 3U.21I.9          331.1   366.087. I  t0.678.6 23.88t.0 20.398.4  1.274.9    59.4  72.296.4
8. Agriculture
..........
Agricultural Inputs                  39,476.0  36.599  7  3).899 7 2s.609.3  18.293.0    IS1.861.    8.113.I 17.261.9  6 122.0  4.7?0.9 3.26K2  29.591.3
See"ds                               33,28662   9.089 7   1.4S9.1         300.3    904.5    44.639S.    6.89).6  1.803.     279.3             99.?    90.6   9.120.I
Agric. Support  erwvces              20.672.?  34.09s.0  11.460.9  4.66 .0  6,244.5    7t.341. 2   4.321.9  6IL695.9   2199.6                 89.S 1.121.)     9273 3
fruit Develc nt                      17,069.3   8,30T.6             -         -               23.316.8   3.934.0  t.291.               -                       4, M789 
Agruc Ues.rch                           879.2       96.         591.0    426. )    432.9        3.271.3       162.0     194.9      109.8      79.4     77.7      639.4
Sub-total Agriculture                  ;'1.583.   67. 073o  45.362.? 30,998.8 29.479,0    300.4930  23. 102. 2 17,276.4  6,7069  9,I91.2 4. 43.6  99.4)0.2
C. farm flechuery                        3.389.?   5.202.9   1. 99. 3       126. 9     139.      1 0o. s0s.1    70I .$8  t.032.3    3t. 3       23.      24.3    2. t97. 2
D. Livestock
SHN Oevelopnt                        97. 34.9  66.230.)   6.9SM. ?           -               130.600.7  1 ,6VA.s9 13,140.9  1342.8              -         -  26.362.S
bK  Straw Tretmnt                            -   1.2s2.      11.364.6      S.6       9.0       2.628.9           -    248.4    261.9          1.3      0.9      9)2.S
Slaugterbouse                         6.242.)   9.292.4   1.943.9    689.7    1724.2    20.892.3    1,708.4  1.843.?              373.1      126.0   130.0   4.181.3
tivestock ts.rch                        7276        223.1      194.6      196.4     169.9       1.468.1       190.6      44.4      31.4       29.0    29.8       29I.2
... ..   .......  ......... ......... ........ ........ ........... ...............       ............ ........ ...........^^* ......... .... ..... ---..,----e     *....-
Sub-Total Livestock                     66.344.9  16."SS.3  10,498.9    692.9    8s9. )           9SS.99.1  13.735.9  S.2127.4  2.0)9.)    158.2   160.1  31)347.4
E. Arogindustleo                                *
Fertilizer Plants                   53,34.3  87,114.1  11.347.8                             212.6G6.8  I1.063.I 1. 41S.6 13.69.4                -         -  42.13.1
Pvticle Sord "oill                   11.463.)  St.,S987   3.910.4  1.040.6  1,092.6    79.099.4   3.6)9.9S 10239.9    70. 6                  193.)    196.2  142991,2
Paw   UdIl                            6,824.2  23. 119.s   2,094.2    SS9.3    39.1    32 US. 2    1,390.             4, S8?.     402.0      103.4    70.0   6.St3 3
Sb-Totol Igroindustries                 77.521.6 152.4*2.9  11.32.4  LS997.9  1.482.1   320.431.9  IS. 001. 0 32.238.1  14.88.   2 9m*4   266. 2  6.360t.2
F. Projct Ranagot Office                 7,932.8   2.89.02   3,. O54  3.192.?  3.365,4    20.037.9    1,999.6    sn3.5   S986    5912.3   604.2   3.91.2
...*    .......... . ^.......... . .......... ........ .......... ...........  ........ ........ ......... ..I..... .......... .......................   .....     .    . 
Tote) P904ECT COSTS                      3466249.6 49s.031.9 244.,01.6 7S921.0 31. 6814.4 1.173.494.I  75.8261 90.269.3 46. O.3 14 096.1  9.68.4 232.6ut.8
J9.-S.29 42.89.  299**942 19SSX  %*X%sx-_ *0248*9419s *gas%   *******  83S8*8    $*s *S$* *s Vssal   zsast
.......................s..... ....................................    s               .          .              a..... .........     8S.....stSSS..............    *sSfl.  *..................S. . .
flarch 20. ISSO 16 28



- 68 -
Annex 2
Table 4.2
CHINA
HIEM[ ACIlCiUt        L  OEVIVCLOPETl PROJtCT
Project Caents by 1tr
lotals  Including Contingencies                                              Totlit Including  Contoencies
Northeast                                                                    l(uan ,                                                                       tuss I000)
.. ...... ......... ..... ...... ... .. . ...... ..... .. ... ...   .. ...... ........ .............................
90/91         91/92       92/93        931/4        94/95      total           90/91       91192        92/93        93/94    94/95        Total
IL Mater Conwevacy
.... ... ..... .......
Irrigation  DOvelonfint                    26.397.S   43.652.6 48.530.0  33,314.3                  64.0  151,959.4    5.465.4   8.661.2   9.314.8  6.180.8                     I.5 29.833  8
......... ......... ... ... .....  .......___. .    .......... ..  ._. _.......   .......I..  _........... ......._._-.... ..... .. ...... .   -.. .... ....._
Sajb-Totol Mater Conservancy                   26.397.9   43.652.6  48,530.0  33.314.3                  64.6  151.959.4    5 465.4   8.661.2   9.314.8  6. '80.8                    It.6 29.633.8
f. Agriculture
. .. .......
Agrieultural  inputs                        8.519. 8    8.234? 7             7368.9   8 .275.4 4.616.    35 133.2           1 776.4   1 633.9  1t414.0  1. 64.3    839 6   6.828. t
Seeds                                       4,453.4                                   -                 -    4,453.4          922.0                                                        922 0
Aeric.  Support Services                     3.812.0    6.$7t68           578.5        697.2    933.2   12.598.?               789.2  1t305.1           tIl.*      1294        16t.5   2.502.J
Agric   eseareh                                 185.6         121. 1        80.7        63.0        61.6        5t8.0           38.4        24.0         IS.5        It.7       12. t      lOt 8
..............., .,....... . .. .... ... . _.......  ........ ............   ........   ....... I...... ......... ....... ....... .........   ... ...... _.. _
Sibt-otal Agriculture                           11.00. 9   14.933.5   8.026  t  7.035.1 5.671.2   52.703.3                      3.526. t  2.963.0  1t540.5  1t305.3  1.019.2  10.354.t
C. Faril Nichinery                               2,257.4    3.006.9   1.458.?                25.8       21.5    6,778. 3           461. 4      56. 6        280.0         4.8        4.9    1. 353. ?
0. A      acu lture
.... ......
Sher ip Po-16"                               7.38t.S       9. 193.4   4.105.0   2.933.0                 -   23. 613. 3      1.528  3   1.824.t          181.9       44.2                4. 684.5
Shrimp  Ponds-Rstab                        40,893.5   28955. I II. 131.8                                -    0.980.3    8.466.6   5. 45.)   2. 136.6                     -          - 16. 348 2
Scallop                                      2 155. 4    3,201. 3   1. 191. 3                                 7-  148. 0      570.5        635.2        226.7            -              1 . 434. 3
Support tacilitles                           1. 72t.    28,491.8   1. 1382                                  31. 35?.     1.598.6   5.654.3              218.5            -          -   7471.4
fish  Ponds                                 13.,36. 3   10.474.3          994.8              -              24, 625. 3    2.165.3   2. 01& 2            190.9            -              5.034. 4
*qiaculture    eserch                           379.3         425.0       461.9        49. 9    531. 1    2,294.2               78.5        84.3         88.7       92.2        95.3       439.1
.....  . ...... .....   .....   ...... .. ...   .._...._. ___._ ........ ........ ....... ....... ........
Sub-totaI Aqw cultur.                          12.467.S   80 746 9  19.022.9   3.429.9    531. I  116. 21  3   IS. 001.8  16.,021.2   3.65t. 2    636.3                             95.3  3. 41 1. 9
..... _  -. _1 .......   ....... ... .. .... .. ...... . . . ...... .   -----   -----   -----   ----   ----   -----
Total PROECT COSTS                               t8 t13. 6  142.339.8  17.031.1 43.805.8 6 300.4 387.657.3   24. 468L 6 28. 242.0  14,86.5  8  t127.2  I. I)). t   7153. 5
33SSt:tS3      3523S 4 tS   SttSi*S  $S$SSSSSS43t 4f4 aSSSSfl*3    33Sita*  *3tSS. .                     *SflSSS*  53333 *....3S .             tS...
.._.._.................... _.._.._ ....................._._..__...._. ............._........_....................._. _ ._  ..._.._.._.._.._.
Xarch 20.  1990   I& 30



AIOn_ 2
-69                                 Table- 
cam
NM5II AGRICULTURAL DVCL0IMRNT PIOJnCT
Procurement of MacbIneurv ROaulument and Material
(Y'000)
Procurement method
Project eleasut               1CB       LUB       LC        Other      Total
Machinerv
Constr. & O&N machinery    2.830      2,360      5,190         0      10,380
Vehicles                   12,800         0          0     3,250      16,050
Farm machinery                  0         0    1S,580      4,720      20,3001a
Subtotal                15.630     2.360    20.770      7.970      46,730
Equtoment
La.ge pumps & motors        2,830         0          0       950       3.800
Small pumps & motors            0         0    23,600      3,780      27,380
Well pumps & motors             0         0          0    35,400      35,40AOa
Electrical                      0         0    22,700    14,160       36,860
Misc. irrigtion                 0       900      5,200     7,550      13,650
Gates & hoists                  0         0    23,100    12,300       35,400
Water monitoring                0       950      2.360     5,200       6.S10
Research & extension            0     8,500     5,200      9,440      23,140
A.oniation                      0         0          0     3,300       3,300
Fertilizer plant (2)       88,300         0          0         0      88,300
Cardboard plant            31,150         0          0         0      31,150
Particle board plant       76,460         0          0         0      76,460
Slaughterhouse                  0         0    19,400      3,300      22.700
eGnnery & delinting             0     5,660    19,300      3,290      28,250
Seed processing                 0     2,36b    17,460      2,830      22,650
Office                      6,600     8,000     9,440    14,160       38,200
Cold storage                    0         0      7,080     4,720      11,800
Aquaculture                     0     4,250    15,100      9,400      28,750
Subtotal              205.360    30.620   169.940   129.780       535.700
Materials
Cement                     15,600         0    14,200    12,300       42,100
Steel                       6,000         0     1,900      5,350      13,250
Timber                      4,700         0          0     3,300       8,000
Fertilizers                97,500         0          0         0      97,500
Pesticides                 30,000         0          0         0      30,000
Plastics & other           40,300         0         0      4,700      45,000
Well casing & misc.             0         0    27,400          0      27,4001a
Water-saving pipe               0         0          0   114,700     114,7001a
Aggregates                      0         0    12,700    11,300       24,000
Misc. constr.                   0         0      5,660     3,300       8.960
Breeding stock                  0         0         0    57,920       57,920/a
Subtotal              194,100          0    61,860   212.870      468,830
Total (Y'OOO)         415 060    32,980   252 570   350 620   1.051,260
(US$ million)      87.9        7.0    i-l i5743               222.7
a   Locally procured goods included under one of the project's revolving
funds.



ANNEX 2
70 -                              Table 6
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA                   Disbursements                       Disbursement
fiscal year/   Semestral    Cumulative    Cumulative            profile /a
semester     ---- (US$ million) ----        (X)         Yearlsemester       2
1991 X                                                    Year 1
First         7.0            7.0            5             First
Second       12.0           19.0           13             Second          5.4
1992                                                      Year 2
First        17.0           36.0           24             First
Second       20.0           56.0           37             Second        29.2
1993                                                      Year 3
First        25.0           81.0           54             First
Second       20.0          101.0           67             Second        61.2
1994                                                      Year 4
First        18.0          119.0           79             First
Second       13.0          312.0           88             Second        91.0
1995                                                      Year 5
First         8.0          140.0           93             First
Second        5.0          145.0           97             Second       100.0
1996                                                      Year 6
First         5.0          150.0          100
La   Disbursement profile for China - specific investment loans.
/b   Included retroactive financing up to US$12.0 million equivalent and
deposit in Special Account of US$8.3 million.
Completion dates December 31, .1995
Closing date   s December 31, 1996



71 -
Annex 3
Table 1.1
REABl AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEGT
CropDued Areas. Yields and Production
Area Converted            Yield           Incremental
Crops                 to Full Irrigation  Present      Future     Production
(Rainfed) (Irrigated)
Heilonggang Region        (Hectare)            (ton/ha)             (1,0O0ton)
Wheat                       56,000           1.3          4.0           151.2
Maize                       34,000           1.2          4.0            95.9
Cotton a/                   95,000          0.6           1.1            53.2
Cotton (intercrop)          30,000            -           1.1            33.3
Alfafa (partial irrg)        8,000                        6.0            48.0
Alfalfa (rainfed)            8,000                        4.0            32.0
Peanuts b/                   5,000          1.2           2.0             4.0
Chinese Cabbage              2,000         10.0          35.0            50.0
Orchard (new area)           2,000                       35.0            70.0
Chinese Dates c/            20,000            -           2.2           44.0
(intercrop)
North Coast Region
Wheat                        4,800           2.2           4.2            9.6
Wheat (intercrop)            1,900            -            4.2            8.0
Maize                        4,400           2.6           5.0           10.6
Paddy d/                    16,900            -            6.5         109.9
Orchard (new area)             800            -           35.0           28.0
Chinese Cabbage                500         15.0           35.0           10.0
Present              Future
Total Project Cropped Area                3,277,000              3,403,000
Total Cultivated Area                     2,351,000              2,386,000
Cropping Intensity                             139%                143%
a/ Ginned
b/ Shelled
c/ Intercropped with wheat
d/ Scattered wasteland near presently culivated areas in Tangshan and
Qinhuangdao prefectures.



I O 005 El d le!uu",Jo# ie £evftvl 414 /a
pus e     Udw  '4       - p6  1!0* dI !Jmldd /5
t°'° ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    S deUS  US-  S W          ,gtO
us-  sn   wOt        -       zl -A 0
^   0-0       o o       st       zt                    "-t      3        t5Ot     Ot                  rdt0-0)
W0*o    not      I. CM    8        setu  01d,3
on 00  0  080          0V-W1          l'  w
"I'- 0   0        U00P               t^4z1
o        slut    owl          P42421 41.  %IO G5C 8W-OI
O'W                                                                                  0        Lot      AO 1O'4-S19
S 0: 0   s~   n s             s     ss           o tC I"S
SSt               00              oas sa                                             et       p.sF___
N                     O O               O O      O        O             00 S~~~~~~~~~~0:  09 t     O        O            _-4t pIIY_I
o        0° o°                 00a S     US
°~~~~~'°  8                    0             ole     d'       0 °   0 "   0           0 S          "I I*=        a    u    oO tt |q /
0,49 ow-                                    an        0                              a            0 4 
ooo  S           a                               oo      oo        u        P     4    le'tWo
0-0      0        0                      S       0        0        0tSI                               A
o o                       0 0      ess      s s                             o        sts      8$S n  am0  a               1010R
0109     a"      s°e'8n 00t             op t, g -   , ^ 1 c
0'0 0 0                   oSt St0                                                  aIo,                                   I o   o oos- SSllogtS
005                     0                                                                                               lUSEis'S~~~~~~~m m    O  o
S-W                                0*0      59      -Ob                     O       0         U       is
t-SS-            a 0511                         0        U        12
0Wo      0        0            QD&      us       0        0        0        p.tmJw4Iam~
00       obt      0t                             0        0        0            v' at  4!41t11 0b
010      at       mg                    OS?1     0                 MtSP
*+so~~~~~~                         U w                             on  t    o        tiS      tI       pe,laoI                - a
S'Ot ~      ~~~      ~ t'0  St^  S6t        0o-.        at-    tS       ab                         Sl t Lfo1
C4  ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     000 0                      0U       UI           0015     c                 00       OS              *-~JIAiead             JYTUNe
Wof9                               0:°t    on        z                      es-t    et°        t       eot                        lo 1
ow                Ou      s &t g   ao w                            t0  tt0           mmllt    St *rww
ass g                             -      a        -It
0*-      0t                               0      0        U        Utl-I
Wo                   0~00510    LSW              sal:i                 *        US       SI       Un           p,us"J4!
top     uvs US                          01n      0        06       US
010      WI        g                     WI      0        AS        s       p.lt
C :51                     S'OOI~~~~~~~01  0SilODsl91                        0        iso:     USI"   ioslesqeS
55- g        wt                    o,*    as-        m        U
010      U                               L IO    0        OP        P                 8*I*
wA,S~~~y4r  sw~~~~             (50± as~m    Ws          mtsuA,  19Ui    m          0 off
1'UkCj.  WI  1Z   S*1LVOIZ IL AUSt    gm m:x              q    __ 
gm   m  ae" stim90b0I50
WM-               aearais       &wwwt Ge 
inc~~~~~~~O                    "       poef,011.4



MM  AGt0LnfAL 1*AL09f P00MC
i_  Ost.I Re;0 Cro p_g5 -rlgstae
C _oo  Am. Yields mid Production
Dflpp  MAA                                oucrim  lUe oLY To vatICn           PImw  IN          TOTAL
CROP              own OF                      (      i&.)                                        (1,000 TWO)                 MItI  OM         INC2WAL
vraonm  PFAMW  PJRM   OVAE     PFAMW                       Fu~~~nom                     AGOE TO    IWKUTS  PROIJUCTIM
WEA              FNtlj $irrieted         17.4     24.1      S.?     8.2s 4.7                        771       21 .4              6.7
Pme8.*ly 1  lrri.ed    0.0       0.0      0.0     2.80     2.60           0.0      0.0      0.0
NeWot                  4.B       0.0    -4.6      2.20     2.40          10.6      0.0    -10.6
Subtotal                        22.2     24.1      1.9                            66.2     77.1     10.9                                 17.6
Vg.tel.md                       (1.9)     (0)
la                Fll2 ittd              12.0     26.4      4.4     4.00     i.00          66.0    10.0       17.6               4.4
Prs"Il ly itt}"i       8.0       6.0      0.0     8.00     8.00          15.0     15.0      0.0
flefed                 12.9    IS.$    -4.4       2.60     2.70          89.6     46.1    -11.4
Subteftl                        49.9     49.9      0.0                           162.6    168.7      6.2                                 10.6
P00               Fall Irril rd          Z1.2     86.1     10.9     6.ll     6.E0         12.0  / 22.0        96.0              11.9
Part *e ly  tri -      0.0       0.0      0.0                             0.0      0.0      0.0
Walked                 0.0       0.0      0.0                             0.0      0.0      0.0
S.beeel                         21.2     86.1     16.9                            2.0    221.0      96.0                                109.9
Wastelands.                     (6.9)    (0)
puxrO       Fully . rrl             0.0      0.0      0.0               6.60          0.0      0.0       0.0               0.0
Partially irrIpted     0.0      0.0       0.0     4.20     4.50           0.0      0.0      0.0
Rlef.d                  8.8     MS.$      0.0     8.80     4.00         U11.6    116.6      0.0
Subtel                         8=.8      88.8      0.0                           U11.6    116.6      0.0                                  0.0
gtWDm            hPtty u rigr. "_         1.0      1.8      0.8    26.00    86.00          2t.0     45.0     20.0               i.0
(Pea  o "em)  Par ally  nP098s          0.0       0.0      0.0                             0.0      0.0      0.0
sibedd                 0.0       0.0      0.0                             0.0      0.0      0.0
Oebhoel                          1.0      1.8      0.6                           28.0      48.0     20.0                                 2B.0
Munn              i4il Iriye             0.0       0.0      0.0              2.00           0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0                                       3
IVafe                                 0.0   '                                             .
15.0     18.0      0.0     1.20     1.J0          18.0     10.0      0.0                                                        -
Outol                           15.0     18.0      0.0                            18.0     10.0      0.0                                 0.0                     W)
St6m60            Fully Sr iew            0.0      0.0      0.0     1.60     2.00           0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0
etially lrri-wted     0.0      0.0       0.0     1.i0     1.10           0.0      0.0      0.0
flinfid                18.0    1.0       0.0     1.18     1.88          17.0     17.0      0.0
fSlbesl                         15.0     15.0      0.0                            17.0     17.0      0.0                                 0.0
SP0I00 I/        Fully ;rri9etd         0.0       0.S      0.5    26.0      .00           0.0      14.0     14.0               8.8
Pf6ZiStty *rilgwbSd     1.0      1.0      0.0    22.00    26.00          27.0     12.0      0.0
Relafed                2.0       1.8    -0.t    15.00   20.00            J0.0       .6     -7.5
Subtobal                        8.0       8.0      0.0                            i2.0    08.6       6.5                                10.0
SUelS            Fully u.Sted            0.0       0.0      0.0              2.00           0.0      0.0      0.0               0.0
Partially Irrigated    0.0       0.0      0.0     1.00     1.1           0.0      0.0      0.0
hlSRais                21.0     21.0      0.0     1.00     1.10          210      21.0      0.0
S9,6oalI                        21.0     21.0      0.0                            21.0     21.0      0.0                                 0.0
TOTAL     AM  FPllsirvyte                61.6     90.9     29.8
rtally irlow           6.0       B.0      0.0
blafed                114.     106.      -.r.?
TOTAL                1M.6    201.2       19.6
Oat CotthmSed Area    187.    170.1      18.9
Cr"opion Intaifty      £16      1s1      0.00
Wies~et)
l/sslsds 48).A.. cobbap ,I.ct woId also be plantd beto' paddy.
Ii 



- 74                                                    Annex 3
CHM                                     ~~~~~~~~~Ta'Me    2 .1
all,.CUU        T      Pl§=
"$ llanugoeg C    s Budget at Pi l Development
(YUSSAO 
Atit   Cots           aet           C.i.          baIrkea       Pgeanut      41 I lot     Chlaeae CebbCg,
1I1ma               ILAt  Pr.o Amt Valwe  Amnabt Value  LiOunt Voluv  Aount Velue wmab Volvo A1  nt Voluv  mount Valu*
A. VltJbot ProJect4alafed C.ditl.a
Yield                tO"           065            1ot           1a             1           1.2      t       l           t0
Price I/             Y/t            moo         s1oe0           042         1250          * 73          10o5           440
Product Value         Y                   3300          1531          9n           1?60          IT"W          1320          4400
Opr.odtct Volve       Y                    410            04           90            s0o          V0              0             0
Total vlue                                a718          16S           1053         1310          19611         1320          4400
Land Prearatlon     "a  '3/ba        1    30             30      1    30      1    so       1    30       1    30       1    30
Seede                NoK             90   144   1W    202    50    76    so   120   I60   224    10    10  1t2    36
Orgpai. ftture       tan   1O/0t    20   20        is   teo      to0  100    to t1   0      10   100                    10    t00
Fortl I i Zee
Ur"                  kg   I .ks 20    416   160   240    150   240           so    60    80    6o    so    126   1S0   240
PAP                  kg    I.*/lsg  100   270   100   1iO    100   16    100        too  t1o    160    SO    90
Peatici4de           kg   '2/g        s     76   o.S 3     s   0       1 3   0.    13   0.5    13   0.3         6      1    26
S.eyer                                      40            40                                                             1    40
IrrigeblA eOter      as  Y. Olies            0            0
Subtotal                                  1176           on7          638           623           621           266           472
"at Value                                 2340           tn           415           76T          1341          1054         3s26
Labor                                      300           120           130          100           t25           120           e10
Return pot Ibaday                          8.6           6.4          3.2           7.9          10. I          8.           21.8
b* With Project-artIal irrigated ConditIon
field                ton           0.92          2.6           2.S           1.8           1.6             2            20
P.ice I/             Y/4t          am0           1100          642          1250          1473          1o01           440
Product Volue         Y                   NW20          2681          160                        2357          2030          6600
Byproduct Volue                            892           1i6          1SO            6o           250             0             0
Total Value           Y                   e161          3037         1763          1935          2607          2030          680o
Inputs
Land Prpgratlen      He  '130/ha      I    SO       1    so       1    SO      1    30       1    30       1    SO       1    6o
seeds                KG              90   144   160   202    so    3s   6o   120   160   224    1o    10    I 5    43
Organic aurle        ton  '11/t    so   SW         60   30       10   100    10   100    18   1O                        is   ISO
Peorillsier
Urge                 ke  VI16/kg   300   460   200   320   200   320    l0   112    70    112   100   160   250   400
DLP                  kg   '.01/kg   160   270   160   270   130   270  1t0   270   100   t00   1OO    160    60    90
Pletlicid.           kg  Y'16/kg      3    76   0.5    1S   0.6    13   0.6    13   0.8    13   0.3               a    1.5    39
Sprayer                                     40            40                                                             1    40
IrrigatIon Water     as   '6eS 280o    164  2600    164  230o   184  230             84   200   164   2300    14   230o   184
Suttotal                                 t126           139 1392                    82n           693           672           978
Not Value                                 4866          1678           7e6         1106          1714          145           T22
Labor                                      3i            LS0          t140          120           140           140           230
*eturt per lBnay                          13.1          11.2           S6.          9.2          12.2          10.4          34.0
C. Wit  Project-Fully trr.gated Conditlon
Yield                too           1.11             4             4            2             2             3            35
Prie I/              Y/t          6om0           1108           642          1230         1473          tOIS           440
Pro4dut Value         Y                   esso          4432         2360          25O0          2946          3s0          16400
*yoredu-t Value       '                    714           240          240            120          300             0             0
Totel Value                               7374          4672         2we6          2620          3246          3045         1s400
Inputs
Lard Preeralion       a   '130he      1    SO       1    S0       I    SO       1    30      1    30       1    30       1    30
Sed.                 Ng              76   160   140   17        48  67.8    70   108   140   224          9      9    13    39
OreaIc Man ire       to   '11/b    so   300    25   250    12   120    t1   1SO             16  t1O                     30   300
pFrt: I er
UWe                  kg  Y1.6SA    600   460   300   460   280   448    70   112    *r0   112   100   160  3S0    s60
-AP                  kg  Y'1.6g   280   .0    250   450   1I0   270   130   270   160   270   180   270   100   1go
Pesticides           ig   126k*       8     78      I    26    0.6    16       1    2?       1    26   O.s    iS    1.S    39
Spryer                                      40            40                                                             1    40
Irrigation Mwt       aS d   .006S  4600   360  4600   366  4600   86   460o  3s6   4600   368  4600   368  4600   386
S..eotal                                  1a"           10            1819         1061          1160           6o0         1s"6
mat Volvo                                 3476          2862          1469          1669         206           2195         13644
Labor                                      3O            160           10           tO            1eo           1eo           Soo
ieturn per mana                           14.0          19.0           9.9          10.4         12.9          12.2          48.1
_.___-  ------ --  -  --                     ---.- ------  -    -  -- ------------ ---------    --- -------_-_--- --------   ---- ------------



HMOM7 A6UCMUtA.L DeJ  AWJBr
orthst Crop Sedwet at P Itt Dwelt
Wi7t   Rice              heat        Maize         Srybma       Peanuts       Spi tch        Seet Pot_to.
UWit  Price Amunt Value   _ount Value  Mount Value  AMunt Value  MOUnt Value  Mout Valu  Mount Value
A. Without ProjectAened Condition
Yield                 ton                          2.2           2.6              1           1.2           1i            8.5
Price I/              Ylt                         110            642            0            1478           400           4J0
Product V luwe                                           248            1669          1250          1768          6000          1610
Syproduct Vsalue       V                                  112            156            60           200             0             0
Toul value             Y                                 2670         1828.2          1u10        1967.6          6M            1610
Land Preparation      ma   Y80/he                    I    s0        I    20       I    80       1     20      I    80       I    8
Seed"                 Ka io    202                                 0    120    S0    1        16    224    1.5    45    450   270
Orognic  wmrr         ton  '20/t                     e    S60     10    200    10   200        10    200    10       0     17   840
Forti I Ier
Urea                  hg   V1.8g                   2S0    400                   160     80     50     eo    200    m0      75    10
Am.Bloabonate              Y..6/kgo                               160     84
D?P                   kg   n.sg                    150    270   1oo    18    10o    1         loo    180
Petzetic                   V26/ka                  0.5    IS    0.5    18   0.5    18   0.5    1s             1    26    0.8    7.6
Sprayer                                                     0                              (Plastic for sp4;nch)   86              0
lrrigation Water      aS   Y.06/uS                          0
"utoutl                                                  1075           597            681           72765                       76
Mat Value                                                1495           14             67           12            2COS           942
Labor                                                     180            14            100           125           200           120
Ratur *r Monday                                          11.5            8.8           6.8           9.9          26.7           7.0
b. With Projet-Partial Irrigated Condition
Yield                 ton                          2.8           a.8            1.6           1.6            21           4.5
Price 1/              Y,t                         110            642           1220          1478           400           460
Product VUI e                                            8102          2119           1675          2a157        10000          2070
Spproduct Vale         Y                                  166            196            60           260             0             0
Toutl Value            Y                                  270         2516.6          1985        2l06.S         10000          2070
Landreparation        me  V20/ba                     I    80       1     80       1    80       I     s0      1     so      I    80
Seeds                 Ka                           1s60    202    so    12.0    80    12      160    224    1.5    45   4AN    270
Organic Manure        to     Y20/t                  10    200     1O    200    10   200        is    300     1    a0       7?   80
FertilIze &r
Ur"e                  k    Y1.8/kg                 250    400                   70    112      70    112   2S0    400      75    120
Nitrege               kg                                         200    56U
08?                   kg   VI. jk                  150    270    110    270    150    270    100    160D    80      90    100    IS0
Pesticide             k g   Yi/sg 0.8                            0.5    s18   0.7      18   0.5    18        1    26    0.8       e
Sprayer                                                                                         00
irrigation Water      ex   Y.06/08       2SO0    18m   2800    18    20                18   200    184    00    184   20 
btout                                                    12W            878           984           1045          1m            1182
Nat Value                                                1972           1444          1001          154           Om             9
Labor                                                     140            s5            12D0          140           2SO          1I0
Return per ltoedy                                        14.1           9.6            6.8          11.2          25.7           7.2
aoi With Projet-Fulty Irrigated Cwndition
YIeld                 ton            6.5           4.2             S             2             2             as           6.6
Prieu 1/              YJt           1287          1106t          642           1280          1478           400           460
Produt Value          Y                    66a6          4684     u     210          206C           29468        14000   24 76
Bproduct Value         V                    694           282           Sa0            78            80              0             0
Total Volue            y                   s8o9          496           8510o         25788          26           14000          25176
inputs
Lnd Preparation       Hb   Y8O/ha      2     6O      1    s0       1     So      1                    so 1  SO  1    ao     1    80                            El0,
Seed                  Kg              16O   a60    140    176     40    106    90    18    140    224    1.8    89   450   270
Orognic Manure        toen   Y20/t    10    200     12   240      12    240      1S   300      15    s00    21   600       20   400
Fertili,zera
Urea                  kgVl.6/kg  47S    7M        80      56    20    448    70    112         70    112   m0   6o    1O        UD
Zink Salfate           g    2         80     60 Do
DAP                   kg   V1.8Sja  217    891    18    264    130   270    180   270    150    270    100   180    1            27
Peticdes              kg,  Y26/kg     10    £5     0.7    i8   0.6    16         1    26        1     26    1.2     8s 0.6    18
Sprayer                    (Pset;i c   I)    15            0
Irrigption Water      No   Y.06/08 l l050   840   4600          4600 aBB   460o   868  4600    868   4600   868   400    36
S"utouta                                   29            182770        1480          1241           188           17086         1
Net Valu e                                 6044          829           2080          118            1916         122            106
Labor                                       So0          1n0            175            is0           160           Soo           140
Reurn per  nday                            20.1          20.5          11.6           8.9           12.0          41.0           7.6



CHIIU
HEBI9 ARtICLLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROECT
Fors Model - Hot longpng Area 1/
Present-Without Project              Futur-Without Project            Future-With Project
Other     Total              Other      Total              Othor      T-tal
Or1ins 8/ Crops 4/             Griann    Crops              Grains 6/  Crop.
Area (Mu) 2/                  6.4        4.2       12.6     6.4        4.2       12.6     7.7        4.6        12.8
aros Valus (Yuan) 0/         765.6     67.8   1,642.9  1,161.7   1,824.2   2,476.0  1,878.8   1,062.7    5,786.6
Animl Raistng 7/                                    225                           286                           n25
Total Inc...                                    1,927.9                       2,760.9                        4,261.6
Operating Costs
Land Preparation              18.6       0.4       26.2    16.6        8.4       25.2    15.4        9.2       24.6
Seed                          75.8      47.6      128.6    90.5       47.6      188.8    68.8       52.9       111.7
Oranie Manure                 60.6      46.7      107.2      98       65.3      161.8    66.5         78       164.6
Fertililsrs                 209.4      117.6        827   262.6      164.8     416.6   892.2       284.1      626.8
Pesticidas                    6.7       15.6       22.6     8.7       16.8       22.6    10.8       19.1       29.9
Irrigation Watet                                     0    46.6        64.8      60.9   168.9       112.9      801.8
Taxes 8/                      7.76     18.66      21.82   10.94        7.5       18.4    16.1      11.66       27.7
Other Cost 9/                40.0       40.0         80    40.0       40.0      60.0    40.0        40.0       60.0
Feed                                              100.0                         100.0                          110.0
Tot l Cost                   417.0     289.9      60B.8   560.0      868.4   1,048.4   808.7       657.8    1,866.6
Not Value of Production      848.6    567.4   1,121.1   691.7        940.8   1,717.6  1,068.1   1,804.9    2,870.0
Other Income 10/
Feol ly Income
Faml ly Labor (ianday) 11/     68         66      168.0      76         77     208.0       79         98      287.0
Return per MotuAy                                   6.0                           8.6                           10.0
Per Capita lncom  12/                               260                          429                            598
1/ A typical household haw 4 fml ly meomrs, husband, wife, a child and a grandparent. They have 480 workdays avi lable.
2/ Total al located ar Is l mu for which 8.8 mu for whet, 2.8 for cotton, 1.4 for mil let. Summer crops are 2.6 m
for maize, 1.4 for peanut. and .4 for soyben.
8/ Groins are wheat, maise, ml1let and soybean.
4/ Other crops are cotton *nd peanuts.
5/ Area producin maize and millot is reduced to expand area producing zotton from 2.8 mu to 8.2 mu.
6/ See detail ca culations in the proj ct file.
7/ Animal raising Includes I pig and I goat/shep without the project, expand to S gota/shep with the project.
8/ Form tax 2W of not lncome.
9/ Costs of sprayers.
10/ No other employment opportunities.
11/ Labor used for far ing plus 60-60 days used In anianl raising.
12/ Based on 4 parmon per family.



04DIA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPLENT PROJECT
Fare Model - Northeast Area 1/
Pre"snt-Without Project               Fature-Without Project            Future-With Project
Other     Total               Other      Total               Other      Total
Graons 8/  Crop 4/              Orian*   Crops                Grains, /  Crop.
Ares (Mu) 2/                   7.0        0.0        7.8      7.0        0.8        7.8    11.0         1.8       12.8
Gross Valuo (Yugn) 6/       1468.6       88.8     1671.6  1576.8       100.0    1878.8  4459.2        809.8     4768.6
Animal Raising 7/                                  290.0                          290.0                          625.0
Total Incom                                       1681.8                         1986.8                         5298.5
Operqoi ng Cost
Land Preparation              20.0        1.6       21.6    20.C         1.6       21.6    84.0        8.8        87.6
Seedb                         90.9        8.7       99.6    00.9         8.7       99.6   169.1        28.4      212.6
Orgnic Manure                 81.8        8.5       89.6    68.7         8.6       96.2   180.0       41.8       201.8
Fertilizers                  186.9       12.6      199.7   186.9        12.0      199.?   681.5       48.4       729.9
Pesticldam                    24.8        0.6       24.9    24.8         0.8       24.9   106.6         2.4      109.1
Irrigation Watar              20.0        0.0       20.0    20.0        24.6       44.5   468.7       44.2       502.9
Tanxe  8/                      9.5        1.5       10.9      9.6        2.0       11.6    84,1        4.1        88.2                  %4
Other Costa 9/                40.0       40.0       80.0    40.0        40.0       80.0    40.0       40.0        80.0
Food                                               120.0                          120.0                          180.0
Total Costa                  47n.9       78.7      68B.5   478.4        98.7      697.0  1704.0      207.4      1911.4
NHt Value of Production     1010.6       14.6    1196.8  1097.9          1.8    1269.8  2755.2        101.9     2857.1
Other Incom 10J
Fmi ly Incom
Family Labor ("mnday) II/       75          7        182       77          7        127      176        16         254
Return p.r Manday                                    9.1                           10.0                           11.8
Per Capita 2ncome 12/                                299                            817                            714
1/ A typIcal household has 4 family members, husband, wife, a child end a grandparent. They hev 480 workdays avalable.
2/ Total ellocated area is 7.8 mu for which 2 mu for ries, 2 m for wheat, 8 au for maize, .2 for sweet potatoes
and 0.6 mu for peonuts.
8/ Grains arm rice, wheat and eaize.
4/ Other crop. are sweetpotatoes and peanuts.
S/ Each fmily will have 4 mu roelaimd from wastlands for rice.  Irrigation water will enable to plant one More  o                   g
of summer crops.
6/ See dtetI  c lul ations in the project filI.                ' 
7/ Animl  raising Includes 1 pig and 1 goat/sheep without the project, expand to 6 gos/shep with the project.
8/ Far teax 2 of not income.
9/ Costs of sprayers.
10/ No other mployment opportunities.
11/ Labor use  for forming plus 50-0 days ume in animl raising.
12/ Based on 4 parson per fmily.



- 78 -
CHINA                    Annex 3
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  Table 4
Rent and Cost Recovery
------------------------------------------------------_--------__------------__---
Northeast   Heilonggang           Total
(60,000)      (480,000)      (540.000)
---------------_-----------------------_----_------------__------------------__---
(Y'000)
At Full Development
Incremental Income a/                      98,700        744,480        843,180
Lests
Imputed Value, Family Labor b/             35,136        117,504        152,640
Imputed Value, Management Services c/       9,870         74,448         84,318
Imputed Return to Own Capital d/            4,935         37,224         42,159
Allowance for Risk/Uncertainty c/           9,870         74,448         84,318
Subtotal                                 59,811        303,624        363,435
Equals:
Project Rent                               38,889        440,856        479,745
Project Charges
Water Charges e/                         21,000        144,960        165,960
Taxes fl                                  4,935         37,224         42,159
Total Charges                            25,935        182,184        208,119
Rent Recovery Index (2) g/                     67?            41?            432
During Project's Life h/
Project Rent                              217,900      1,446,600      1,664,500
Project Charges
Taxes f/                                 15,560         85,090        100,650
Water Charges                            21,000        144,960        165,960
Interest and Loan Repayment il          156,540        333,468        490,008
Total Charges                           193,100        563,518        756,618
Rent Recovery Index (C) g/                       89?            39Z            452
Project Costs j/                            256,360        691,200        947,560
Cost Recovery Index (2) k/                       752            822            80?
a/ Based on the incremental income of farm families in the farm model analysis,
before deducting project charges and debt service.
b/ Based on incremental labor valued at 802 of the market wage.
cl Ten percent of incremental income.
di Five percent of net incremental income.
e/ Based on Y.08/cu meter.
f/ 5? for crop and livestock, 102 for aquaculture and 5.75Z ::r dates and pears.
g8 Project charges as a percentage of project rent.
h/ Expressed as present values over 20-year project life, discounted at 122.
i/ On-lending rates for agroindustries and aquaculture at 19.242 for 20 years and
14.4? for livestock for 8 years.
ji Total project costs excluding farmer labor contribution, costs of support
services (repaid from service fee).
k/ Project charges as a percentage of project cost.



- 79 -
Annex 3
mlXNA                       Table 5.1
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock - Summary of Financial Analysis
Items                   Annual Net Return        FRR       NPV at 12%
(Yuan)              %           (Yuan)
Sheep Breeding and
Fattening (Alfalfa)        7,054               24             21,111
Sheep Fattening High
Yield Crop Farm            1,512               29              5,634
Beef Breeding and
Fattening                  2,205               31              9,795
Beef Fattening High
Yield Crop F&nrm           8,014               33             33,081
Sheep Fattening              7,915               39             36,308
Beef Fattening (Alfalfa)     8,752               47             39,716
Beef Fattening              30,642               68             30,642
-- _, -- -   - -- -- -- _- -- --.  .--  -- -- --,--   --_--   --.   -



- 80                               Annex 3
Tab le 5.2
,CHIN
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aauaculture - Summary of the Financial Analysis
Ainnual
Items                    Incre. Net Return      FRR           NPV at 12%
(Y'000)             %            (Y'000)
Rehabilitated ShrimD Ponds
-Changli County              1,117              48            21,552
-Fengnan County              1,563              46             8,435
-Loating County              2,829              43            19,946
-Luannan County             4,264               47            23,673
-Tanghai County              2,631              47            15,458
New Shrimp Ponds
-Changli County              1,444              42            27,468
-Tanghai County              1,190              56             9,4i6
Fish Ponds
-Fengnan County              2,576              43            13,846
-Laoting County              1,181              46             5,964
-Luannan County               852               48             6,004
-Tanghai County              2,281              41            11,724
Scallop Production
-Funing County               2,247              40            13,178
_------ ------   _   ... --.--- ------ -.---- . ---_- ------ ------ -.- _.



04M
MM ACOUCLLTURAL DeVtLOMW PRDJWT
C-P "D",   cotoo Insercropso ioft C'sine
Unit      Cost    pvt      PY2    PY3    PY4    PM      pyo    p"     pya    PY9   PYIO   Pyl-I  VW       PY13   PY14   PYIS   PYIS   Pyl?   pylg   png   pM
Yield -Wk"t Itarim?          Tor                3    3.i    3.8    3.7        4      4    3.6    3.9    3.2    3.2    S-2    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2        3       3      3      3      3
Yiold -fttea  ton/he         Tor                0       0      0      0       0      0    0.6    0.9    1.2    1.5       2    2.5    2.5       $    3.9    3.5    9.6    5.5    0.6    3.5
Volue of 04"t               Yoor   YUOD/t  3,WO  3,410  3.850  4.070  4,400 4.4M   3.9"   3 980  3 52D 3 520 3,m    3.62D 3                S.=    S'm    B,wo 3 X*  3 300 3.3CO  3 300
0      0      0      0       0   1000   isoo   9w,-   iam-   4000   5m        iFO6   sm    7000   fm       fFA,  +5W-   7000   fi-W
Vs Iwo of Fresh cot"        yier   ygm/t        0                                                                                     S20
ymon            3.300  3,410  3.9W   4,070  6,41W  4.400  4.910  $.SW   S,M    O.M    7.5w   S.W    BAM   9.52D 10.50  10,300 10,900 10,300 20.300 10,300
LOW PP"Orbtion                                 30      40     30     30      BD     30     30     30      30     So     So     So      30
$04,410                     YO. 0   9!                                                                                                        so     30      90     30     30     so      30
0                                        a    173    175    175    175    173    179    173    175    173    373    17S    170    173    17S    27S    17S    173    175    175    17S
npfoic "Oft?.               to"   Y10ft      250    26D    250    250    250    250    250    2W       260-  250    290    290    2so    2W        2o     2w     gW      2W     2W     2W
Ures                       I'll   Y1.41ke    480    400    4M     480    4W      4M     490    4W      400    4W     4W     490    4W      40D   400    490    dft    49D    400    480
-W(0-40,O)                  k.    V1.9/ke    450    480    "D    450    450    450    450    450    450    450    430    450    450    4W          450    450    450    450    430    480
Pasticites                   11    Vs/kg       25      29     2D    29      29      24     26     26      26     26     26     26      26     26     26     26      26     26    26      29
Sprov-                       no.  Y40          40                                   40                                  40                                  40
Irriptica water              me  V.09/02  m    SU  30  SO  308  M   JIGS  80  308  M   309  M   M    3M   We  M   M    M   M    M
&ob4w                     obed"   Yelad       M       7M     75D    7M      70     TM     7M     730    750    M       ?W     M       730    750    750    M       700    ?W     7M      730
Svbtoul Production oang                    2069   25"    209   209   2829   2M         209   25M    209             MO   25"    2529   26"    2m        21509   2=9   2529   2520  2M
ftt 1#0100 of Whmt                            m       "I   tm      tul   tal   ml   Sol   ml    991    "I    951    "I    "I    91112   942    M                   771    771    772    771
Plot Volvo of *40t witbftt d"o               2LB  210  210  21M  220  2125 210  21U  2M  210  2M  2M  2M  2LU  2M  2M                                                    =0  ZO  00
M" &~                                       -IM    -1244   -04   -564   -254   -294   -M        -694 -%W    -1"4  -1174  -XIM   -1134  -1134  .1134   IM                .13154  _IW    -IM
Dooe lowsobmnt Cos"
Load Ps om- tion
Plopios                    he
OPOgnic Fort; I i"r        tm        Yo/t   do       90
Lobgw                   ""Way  Yalud         29       5
Somill ions,   b"di ins Yt          260     so
Port', I I soft
-#^.Si= b-, lto(17*0    ko    Y.391ke       St      le
Phosp%Dfom(22wm)               V-20/ko     2e      14
w0wt                    "     31 YS/0        29       5
Irrisation Cost             le                  0
ftre Implament,              "D.
&O TSUI Invest. coat                          764    172
Orpoig Ob"re               tm    Yo/t            Imputs, frm  %shoot                             6      I       a      9     so      10     10     10     to      10     10     10     10
040,0601 Fort.-Ures        KO    Vs.$/kg                                                 00     Go     so      so     so     so      so     so     so     so      so     so     so     so
lW4Mft PAWUiPOOMt fOr *St* lbifttfRW4*
PoWeld"                          TX/kg      0.3    0.5    0.5    0.9    0.8    0.5    0.4    0.5    0.5    0.7    0.7         I       I      1      1      1       2      I             I
Laboo,                           VS/md                                                   20     25     so      84     40     45     45      45     45    Alb    45              11     45
Y.08148        bewof i tod ffte votop  prismsed vk"t
Cripm;# obowv             Y/tm   VIDIS                                                  100    10     140    140    10      200    200    200    900    200    M        M      00    M
Cbma'scal Po-t.-UPM       Y/ke   n-9/ke                                                  so     so     so      so     do     so     so      OD     so     so      so     so            so
Casio
pe"iesdes                Y/he   VU/ko        is      is     is     is     33      13     13     is     is      is     is     29     20      28     26     26     26      29            vs
Labor                     Tied  vsins                                                   I=     NO    IM       210    M      00    270    VO    270    VO    M           00    la      270
8"-T*Uf . Operating CoMe                        38     is    is      33      33     13    BU     US    418    4ft    $10    06    PO    $76    578    SM           M      579    PI    WS
letiotice                vlog   V.ilillse
Toul Cos" of Votes                            m       m       is     18      is     U     $14    30     413  469.2  518.2    we    57S    an        PS    sm       a"     Si$    Po    as
"" PA"rao                                    -M        -M    -13    -13    -18    -13    OR    =7   IWT 2531.41 301.8   404  4494   5426  604   604   $424   404  404  GM
Mt Pmmmt To I"*                    11.134
F$oommeol lbte of Rtturn               412
Tofat Ce"s                                  4,M         3,9W   8,346 9, 10   2 T"    2 eye            4 076  4 231 4 202 4 239  4 239    2"  4 259  4 sn   4 430 4 450 4 450  4 459
M" PAVh"                                  (2.440)  (W         md    9"   I: W4  1:324  '11,24  '1:'974  1:944 2:3ft  3:259 4:282 4:2BI 151:2el 4:2BI 5:761 5:841  6:841 5:842 3:841
obt Prommik v* IV*                 12.9"
Financial Phim of fttum                471



HEI  latUUTRL Devj TE  PRWEUT
Crag 1ee  - Post (NM Orcor,d)
u". z Cet Prl    PV2   PYS   tPY    PYs   PVf   PY7   r ss            PY IO  PYIIn   PY12  PnS    PY14  Pn5    PY16,  PY^?  t'Y18  frY19   WMf
Pr;. d           I/                                             0)  I   oQO   I OX 0 I XO   I 000   I 0oP  I 000  I OQ NlOO  1,0   LW.000   1.000 1X  1,000   1 .0   I 00 oP  1 oo1  O
Pe., *came                                                   2 000 4: 0Q    00 8   0QOWi  O  16 000 17 0Q0 20 0Q0 2S.OOO SO OQO S5,00.t SSOQ5,000    SSOD    OOO00 SS,OOO 35 000 SS OQO
:"ot_ft Co"
_4td Prptrstin
o    ,'-9 Fertiliz;er 2V    nl:tr.s    0o  sO
Loor 4;                Y5/{d       2SO    ut
Co"- ^S" Iti he 4/  Yn.ot - i    3SO   . E
.:Ots; I i sto- *AP S/  n I /kgtt ow 
L-mber St              2XSI        250    25
Sua"Ilowett. Co                  1 e044   4a4
'NWA* Rmirwt for Tre obns           ,m
Omri   f Frt' -UP"       Kg          g      0   200   SOM    4tO   4tO 80   S to SW        OO   6JO    SW    eSO    gm    SW    Uo   ecO                no    SW       r
Chemicl Fort.PW          Kg          0      0    1O 00  20Q    511S   SOO   400   4tO    450   teo   tQO   SOO              teo   teoD   SOO    seo    No   SWo   SOO
Pest:ci                  It        0.3   O.S   0.S        I   1.S      2   2.5       a    3.s      4      6      a      S     S      S      a      S             5      5
J rigt *i"                           0  0       2,30 240 4d°  4oo.8          00 4.004      o0 6    4 eQO 4 eQ°  4 eOO  4,tO0  4,eOo 4,tQO  4,    4,teo  4,eOo .o   .w
Ct9  ie "wirii,        YIOto                ° 0   i0   200   200    =0 2o   250    260 2tO    O    SQO    390   SS    Sti   SEO   SSO   JSO    SOD   ss               3
O_;csi fort -urM       n1/ ho           O      o    M   4SO   t2  20 7       eo MO   o    ofo 96   o.4 1o 4 1,     ,0O  .o lOo  1.040  1,040  1.040  1.040  1.0 o  1,C40  I,o 
Chre;eal prt- P         i n  h                   S       O    4s0    t20    B1    eso SWo   seDMo   9          00  'ee     ceo eo 900 Noh              soo 900       seoo   g
S*ab-te'~ ~ ~~ir 0|86,    itlt lS     2   s           2  2S2   2 45S s 02       61 S 1   10  S4  6ae 4,tt    is         IN    is      noW   INu   in U8ls8wte     n   6
tAb'o6  l Oatn Cost                 131 1t7 S9  1'025  1.50  2.252 2A    3. 5028  3,4es  3a sQ4 *'62 4,tSB  4 .t    4  4't        an6  4,U8  4 es8  4'6ts 4'6es 4,Me  4,MS      
Not R*v                           (2 s7T) (W?)(1 025)(I sM)  (22  1.1545 4.972 6, SSO  ll lf OUea  15 362 20 332 25 312 So SU2 SO,S  so,30SU 30 3JU SO 312 ttO1 SU      2S027
klo P_sm Vo u                      Sam2
Rac@"teX of Rwavr                40
8f tiN"l  S7  yf~~ts St thefory.      89
4f reo _d  I t  Y.ortIie 
tSJ Now-~*tt"i   *   w1f
4/ ;, 5    d          t 6_g 
Si DAP     SO          -9  b    X



0to
MM ACRICUTIRAIL OIEsVIEPsr PRDJ£CT
Crep MDeI - Poor (fehet. itoted OrhaCrd) I/
unit Cost PY1    PV    PY3   PY4    P3S   Pre   PY7   PYS   P7    P10   PI   P12   PY1S  PY14  Pn1   PY16  PY17  PYJ   Pt?   PY20
Rereeve
Itte    l    .i Yield   eb/)           0      0    1.2   1.5      2   2.5       a   S.$       4    4.5      S   5.5      a   6.5       7   7.5       a 8S.         9     to
Price,  _ /s) 2                                   '1.0t0  Ieco  1,000  1 000  I000 1 000  I 000 1,000  1 000  1 000  1 000  1 000  1 000  1 000  1 OO  I 000 1 000  100)0
ger                                              xo1.2   1,500  2.oo0  2 .0 0 2S.COW s50o  4o000  4.500  5,000  s5  0seooo  6.s0   7e000  7Q00 6.000 6C00  9.000 o,00O0
Inceme~int10.I ingu fta.i g.mpa for Tree Wnomesace
Orgoic pbere             te          a      5      5      7      7     7     to    10    10    is                R    1S    15    15    is    Is    15   1i    15
Ch_i,aeI Fge.-Wr         Ka         5O     U)    7S    75    75   100   100   100   1E0    180   200   .J    200   2C0   200   200   200   200   200   200
Cheelcal P.r%.-P         Kg         40    40    s0    so    73    75   100   100   100   tS0   1S0    10    10    1SD   18    18    180   180    10    SW0
Pwsti cides               I.                1      I      2      2      2     2      a      a      3      4      4      4      4     4      4      4      4      4      4
L as.                                 s,e 5.       s     10     1      15        2     40    60    eo    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70    70
Irrigtion               Cu e     2,S00  2,.0  2.200  2.210  2,20  2,400  2,800  2,500 2,200 2 "A  2,800  2.8tO  2.,00  2.200 2M800  2.,00 2.200 2.,00  2.20   2.800
Tr" lb,t.ence Caste
PrDeaic "bw.r         Y710/.    s0    S0    5O    70    70    70   100   100   100   1                  10    lSO    180  l10    180   180   180    10    180    IO
CheeiUlc  P.rt.-4Se    71.ehep      80    E0    120   120   120    160   uo   1S0   240   240   320    20   8                M0   M2D   S         20    20   220    M
CbeoletI Fort.-MP      71.5A/k      72    72    0o             185    18     80   1       1N0   270   '7    20    270   2          270   270   2o    270   270   270
Pesticides             726/         26    26    26    e2    52    52    52    78           7o    78   104   104   104   104   104   104   104   104   104   184
Laker                  5O.OS        2S     25    2       to    s0    75   1CO   160   2C0    260   SD0   850   Si S SO 80    MD    S0   250   80    0SO   SaO
!rristie.             Y8.08/0t    184    14    184    14    UK4   164   184   U14    We4  184   M14   1UK    S"    184   I*4   2*4   1We   14    MM4    14
P    lem chi.ery         La         73    7s    7n    73    7n    73    75    7s    7    280   150   IS8    INo   tSO    150   UO    180   lSO   t10
7.I Operating Costa                  512   312   570   641  ew          751   61    927  1067  1,32  1,47S  1,52   1.25 1,2  62 11652B  1.2112 1,52   I.526  .        16I
Not R"seu                           (52   (812)  620 9  1,81,  1,749 2.149  2,578  S:4   8.178  8,52  3.2 A4,72  4.92  3.472  5,972  6.472  692  7.472  637,              ?
Mol Pre"at Volve                   I4M2
Plnaiicia ROUt.  P44 Re..             76
1/ RehablIitetion of 120 yeer old tee".
2/ heed on porchesd price at the fer, in 1964.                                                                                                                                            OD
Vw
IDal
:1W
Co



- 84 -
Annex 3
Table 6
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Main Conversion Factors Used
Standard Conversion Factor a/                                   0.86
MachinerylEquipment b/                                          1.50
Energy - Coal cl                                                1.40
- Gasoline                                               1.60
- Diesel                                                 1.10
- Electricity                                            3.70
Transpot - Road                                                 1.20
- Rail                                                 0.90
Cement                                                          3.00
Steel                                                           1.90
Labur - Unskilled                                               0.80
- Skilled                                                 1.60
- Management                                              2.00
- Technical                                               2.00
Other Non-Traded Goods                                          0.90
Earthworks - Aquaculture                                        0.84
- Irrigation                                         0.79
Structures                                                      1.02
a/ SCF -(Official Exchange Rate)/(Shadow Exchange rate ) - 4.7/5.5
bI Based on conversion factor of 1.0 for imports under ICB and 1.5 for
locally made machinery and equipment.
cl The other conversion factors are based on The IBRD's Economic Prices
for Project Evaluation in China. January 23, 1990 and actual financial
prices prevailing in Hebei Province.



- 85 -
Annex 3
Table 7.1
ewu
HElEI ACU.TUAi DEVELW?IENT PROJECT
Border Priae  for Principal Proucts an  Inputs (1990 Constnt Prices) */
Cotton RIcO/
Whet      Corn    lost  Paddy  Penuts b/ Soybean    Urea  TSP   DAP
Mot Trsd Status                     U        X        X       X         X         X       1       ii 
1990 Prices
World Varket Prices:(USA/t)           164      100   lo       286        268      270     126    140   160
Ocen Freight:(U18/t)                   45      22       44      44         26       26      84     84     64
CIF/F09 Tianjin (USS/t)               229      78    1766      241        288      24C     159    174    184
CIF/FOB Tionjin (Yuan/t) e/          1076     867    8253    1188        109t    1152      747    618    912
Port Chargs and
Ditributors' Margin d/              122      so      766     127        124      129      92      n9   107
Transport-Port to Wholealers e/        45      45      67       25         07       6T7      2     62     82
-Mi II to Wholeslere f/       12      12      12       12         12       12      12     12     12
Ex Factory Price                     1266     251    740       969        692      944    684    9B1   10U
Procesing Adjustmnt                                            703
Procssing Costs                                         6o      s0
By-product Valus                       60      8o      460     172                   0       0      0      0
mll gIate Value                      1110     261    7608      600        692      944    664    961   1068
Transport- Fare to Hillg /              5       5        S       6          5        5           6  5      S
Economic Farmgto Price                8l11    276    7601      78t        666      989     679   9SB   1016
Financiel Faregate Price b/          1267     642    6426    1287        1478     1250    1600   1200   1800
2000 Prices
World Market Price:(USS/t) */         168     106    1574      289        280      216    1SO    208    269
Ocean Frelht:(USSA/)                   4C      22       44      44         26       25      84      U4    U4
CIF/FOS Tianjin (US2/t)               208      84    1451      196        205      191     214    287   80
CIF/FOB Tianjin (Yuan/t) c/           976     89S   6821       917        664      699    1006   1114   1424
Port Charge and
Distributors" abrgin d/             11$      el    689       107        112      106     1t1    125    158
Transport-Port to Whol"oler  e/        45      45       67      19         67       67      82     82     82
-Mill to Wholeslers f/        12      12      12      12          12       12      12     12    12
Ex Fectory Price                     1148     277    6108      778        778      718    1166   1264   1622
Procesting Adjustment                                          701
Procesing Cosa                                          60      50
By-product values                      so       80     460     1t                    0       0      0      0
Mill gate V lue                      1208     807  S60         667        778      71a    1166   1264   1622
Transport- Frm to Miill g/              6       5        5       6          5        6       5      6      5
Economic Farpgat Prico               1208     802   6496       662        766      708    1161   1279   1617
Financial Forga t Price h/           1267     642   6426    1287         1478     1200    160   1200  1600
o/ Boasd on World Bank Comodity Price Forcasts, January 22, 1990, adjusted to 1960 constant priceo.
b/ Based on projoeted price  of peanut oil and Mal, asuming thot a ton of unshelled
pe nuts yield 0.25 ton of oIl and 0.46 ton of mesl.
c/ Exchang  rate of Y4.72 a USf1.
d/ Port cfarge  of Y2/h plus OX dltributor'o margin.
0/ DIst4nce from Wholealer to port io approxiately 75 km (Tangahan to Tianjin) and 200 kmb(Hilongsno
to Beijing) by roId  t YO.26/ton/k   adjuted by 1.2 CF. (185 km io usd for whet, corns   fe rtiizers)
f/ Distance from ill lto Wholelr Io approxmtely 50 kg by road at Y.02/t/ko, djusted by CF of 1.2.
g/ Distance from farm to Mill i 20  m on  r        by ro    t Y.02/t     adjusted by oF o  1.2.
/ ased on welght    verge o  19 cont, ngot    nd   ket pric   n Habel.



- 86 -
Annex 3
CHINA                            Table 7.2
HE8EI AORICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Border Prices for Llvestock and Aquatic Products and Inputs
(In 1990 Constant Torus)
Fish
Beef */   Lamb b/   Wool c/  Shrimp d/ Date.        Mm l b/
Not Trade Status                     X          X           H         X         X          U
1990 Price"
World Market Prices:(USS/t)           2600        2890       8662     7618       1200        488
Ocean FreIght:(USS/t)                   6o         6o          26       6o         25         84
CIF/FOB Tianjln (USS/t)               2540       2880        8e6r     7568       1175        472
CIF/FOB Tianjin (Yuen/t) f/          11988      10961       17829    85628      5628        2218
Port Charges and
Distributor' Margin g/              1099       1011        15s6     8222        522        226
Transport-Port to Wholsalers h/         45         46          82       84         67         82
-Processors to Wholesaler I/         12         12          12       18         12         12
Ex Factory Price                     18095       9868       18968    82246       4921       2487
Processing Adjustment (X)               50         55          6o       6o         so          0
Volvo after Adjustment                e647       5486       11875    19849       2461          0
By-product values                      220        889          20        0          0          0
Processing Plant gate Value           6767       6 n        11805    19849       2461       2487
Transport- Farm to Plant 3J              7          7           t        7          5          t
Economic Farogato Price               6O7        5767       11890    19842       2458       2488
Financial Farmgate price              8460       8500       12600    19000       2000       8000
2000 PrIces
World Markot PrIces: (US$/t)          2886       2e65        8662     5948       1080        488
Ocean Freight (USS/t)                   60         so          26       e0         26         84
CIF/FOB TianJin (USS/t)               2826       2659        8667     58a8       1055        472
CIF/FOB Tianjin (Yuan/t) f/          18282      12187       17829    27674       4069       2218
Port Charges and
Distributors, Margin g/             1220       1122        1s85     2616        471        226
Transport-Port to Wholesalers h/        46         45          82       84         67         82
-Processors to Wholesaler, I/        12         12          12       18         12         12
Ex Factory Price                     14660      11008       18988    26106       4408       2487
Processing Adjustment                   so         55          6o       6o         so          0
Processing Costs                      7290       6054       11876    15068       2204          0
By-product values                      220        889          20        0          0          0
Mill gate Value                       7600       6898       11896    16068       2204       2487
Trsnsport- Form to Mll J/               7          7           6        7          C          5
Economic Farmgate Price               7408       ease       11890    1506e       2199       2488
Financial Farugat. Price              846        8500       12600    16150       2000       8000
a/ Basd on World Bank Commodity Price Forcasts, January 22, 1990, adjusted to 1900 constant prices.
b/ Based on World Bank Comodity data, January 26, 1990.
c/ Dominian Crossbred  656s, clean CIF U.K., adjusted for 1900 price.
d/ Weighted average of CIF/USA prices for Chinese AAA In February, 1990.  Assuming that the price
will reduce by 6S each year for five years and remin constant at that level onward.
*/ Prices received by FTC In 1989, adjusted to 1990 level.  For year 2000 assume that price will
reduce by 10X.
f/ Exchange rate of Y4.72 = USIl.
g/ Port charges of Y25/t plus 9X distributor's margin.
h/ Distance from Wholesalers to port is approximately 76 km (Tangshan to Tianjin) and 200 km
eHllonggang to Beijing) by road at YO.88/ton/km adjusted by 1.2 CF.
I/ Distance from Processing Plants to Wholeslers is approximately 60 km by road at Y.03/t/km
for meet and aquatic products, end Y.02/t/km for others, adjusted by CF of 1.2.
J/ Distance from farms to prooessing plants is 20 km on average by road at Y.03/t/ko, adjusted
by CF of 1.2.



- 87 -
Annex 3
Table 7.3
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shrimp Feed Price
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------_
Compo-  Unit Pricelton            Feed Cost/ton
Items                  sition ---------------------       -------------------
z   Financial a/ Economic   Financial  Economic
----------------------------------------------------------__-----------------_
Soybean Cake               35         950         713 b/    333          249
Dried Fish (S. China)       8       2,700       2,430 cl    216          194
Shrimp Head Meal            5       1,300       1,170 c/      65          59
Fish Meal (Imported)       18       3,000       2,483 d/    540          447
Peanut Cake                 5       1,024       1,034 e/      51          52
Soy Flour                   5       1,300         975 bI      65          49
Wheat Flour                15         993       1,011 bl    149          152
Corn Protein                2       4,900       2,107 bI      98          42
Yeast                       5       2,400       2,160 cl    120          108
Amino Acid                  1       2,400       2,160 c/      24          22
Vitamins & Minerals         1       5,210       4,689 cl      52          47
Binder                      0
Subtotal                100
Milling Costs                                                 40          36
Sack & Materials                                              40          36
Labor                                                          7           6
Other                                                          0           0
Feed Cost per ton                                          1,800       1,498
-----------------------------------------------------------------__----------__--------
a/ Based on Luannan's feed formulae and average of prices.
b/ Based on relationship between financial and economic prices of soybean, maize and
wheat.
cl Conversion factor for non-traded goods of 0.9 applied to the financial price.
d/ Based on January, 1990 fishmeal export price (fob Chile) of $438 per ton.
e/ Based on price of peanut meal of US$195 per ton.



- 88 -
Annex 3
Table 8.1
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN PRJCT
Summary of Economic Analysis
..  ..  .      .  ..... ... .__. ............................. ......... .......................... ..
Switching Value at 12%
NPV at        Base Case ----------------------
Components                12%           ERR        Costs     Benefits
(Y'000)         (%)        (%)          (%)
1. Crops
-Northeast Region          124,600        24.3      19.6      -16.4
-Heilonggang Region        930,900        37.4      22.8      -18.6
Total Crops           1,055,500        34.3      22.4      -18.3
2. Aquaculture
-Shrimp                    63,900         30.1      17.4      -14.8
-Scallops                  14,400         63.3     126.5      -55.9
-Fish                      15,000         27.9      12.6      -11.2
Total Aquaculture        93,300         30.4      18.7      -15.8
3. Livestock
-Cattle                    91,300         30.6       9.3       -8.5
-Sheep                     55.300         40.6      17.6      -15.0
Total Livestock       147,600         33.4      11.4      -10.2
4. Date Interplanting        255,300         42.6     520.0      -83.9
5. Pear                      112,800         54.3     224.9      -69.2
TOTAL PROJECT              1,545,300         32.4      24.6      -19.8



MM  *OULTUnxL tDV       W  60J02T
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2e                                      M*         2ftO
1990    1991    1992    198    1994    1995    3996    1997r   199s    1999    200t0   200:    2002    200         2004    20os    2006    2007    2008       .c   2010
14 0    14.8     1.1
C..tl.                46.6    47.6     8,0
tk1w7 r               44i.7    0.4    I1.$      19
SaIl.           ~~~~    ~~2.6  8.1  1.0
Plai                  11.4     7.5     1.0
C     __ft.wttst      42 4    ts.7    57.9    14.5      2.7
Croo4pt.l 4          1116.6   184.8   114.0    40.2    14.1
Pre                    8.      2.0
&. sIlsta.      t   M       32.7   80.0   172.2    564    16.a  0.0
Peemilitia" Caste
Sheep     C"t          S26.8    45.83   87.6    6.9    41.2    46.0    46.0    4.0    46.0   416.0   46.0    46.0    46.0   46.0    46.0    46 0    46.0   46 0    46.0   46 0    46.0
Cattle                4;.s5    9.56  12.6   181.2   186.8   18.3   18.8   13.3   1i.8   18.3   18.8   VS.S  IN S   185.8   16.8   18.3  1tS.S   1i*6.8                       3 136. 3  I. .8
Shr6ip                16.7    56.0    42.6    42.8    42.6    42.6    42.0    42.o    42.0    42.6    42.8    42.8    42.0    42.6    42.8    42.8    42.6    426    426    42.0    42.6
$"too"p                0.2     0.7     0.9      0.9     090     0 9     0.9      0.9     0.9     0.9      0.9     0.9     0.9     0.9      0 9     0.9     0 9     094      094     0.9     0.9
Feet                   6.5    32.4    15.0   1.0   IS.0    15O   0    3t.0    1s 0    16.0    i5 0    1i5. O     5.O    18.0    15.0   1s 0    15.0    1s 0    18.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
Ce.ep*-ftrtA...t      69.     69.1.1  10    69.1 59.1W   s9.1    691            6 1    59.1I   69.1I   69.1    69.1a   69.1    69.        S9 I    69.1    69.      69.1    69.     09.1    59.1
c'99e40*..g.n          0,0   30°.0   40.0   465.0   662.0   66.0   646.0   446.0   6461.0   646.0   64.0  6i4.0   6416.0   6460   6416.0   6440   6 60   6416.0   644.06   66             646.0
f..  ote4..g"."ll  0.2     0.1     0.1     0.5      0.0     0.8     0.4     0 4      0.5     0.6     0.5      0.5     0.8     0.5     0.5      v.5     0.1     0.5      0.5     0.5'   10.5
pse.s                  1.6     0.9     8.8      4.8     A 4     S 0     7.0      6.O     9.9    11.4    12.7    12.7    12.7    12.7    12.7    12.7        27    127    32.7   32.7    12.7
"9tou  Prd.astin   170.1   867.0   716.8   79.5   eW.o   96M 4   eg           96s e4.s   966.5   968.0   969.8   91e9.8   99.8   969.    99.3    6.3   c96.8   919.8   96.3   99.8   969.8
You. Iot.47.6 90.0   6119.0   a4.                      0.    92         6.    964.5   O66.5   966.0   969.8   96.        6.       6.      698 99         99899.3          959.3   969.    99.3
Saeep           ~~~~~~~13.8    34 4    46.3    64.1    66.8    M 4    59.4    59.4    59.4    59.4    66 4    69.4    59.4    59.4    Go94    594  94  59  so4    Be94        "'A   69.4
CettI.          6~~~~~~2.1   117.0   15n.8   17.1   167.1   157.1   167.1I  157.1   157.1I   17.1   157.1   157.1   157.1   157.1  1I7.1   157.1   157.1I  157.1     7.1     % 15.1    W15.
c  ..gp               88.0    60.8    67.6    68.5    so67    51.      86.7   as. 7      6.7   o6. 7    6a.7     W  56.7 6..7     66      66.7    6. 7     56.7            St7 3.7    66.7 'I  6.I
Sal epa         ~~~~    ~~0.6  .1  8.9    8.9     8.39    8.9    a8.9      a 9     8.9     8.9      8,9     8.9     89       8.9    a89      8.9     8 9      89      9.9     8.9     3.9e
F,,,.                  64     15.6    19 7    19.7    19.7      9        9.7        19.7        19.7    19.7    19.7    19.7       .      1.?    19.7   19 7    19.7    1          1 7    1a
Cropop 140-tbe        o 0.0    95.0   114.5   114.5   114.8   114.5   114.5   114.5   114.6   114.5   114.5   114.6   114.5   114.8   114.5   114.5   1.14.5   114.5   114.S   114.5   114.5
Cre.p.4ietisgg,ig      0.0   274.0   420.0   668.0   6t2.0   9o.o   90.0   910.0   910.0   91o.o   910.0   9o1.o   9100   910.0   910.0   910.0   910.0   91o.o   91.0   910.O   910.0
0.9. 146.r.e.epere     °0.0    0.0     0.      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    26 0    639.2      .        .0      0   1060   110.0   i  0   1ss.0   lad 0   21W.o   121:°.0   15         at40   0
Poor&                  0.0     0.0     8.6     4.:5     6.6    18.6    21.6    29.7    62.0    89.1    46.9    54.7    62.9   6".         65. 6    66.6    70.6    71,.6    71.6    716    71.6
Tout leer.. tlf.t  107.6   899. e   a.9  1,102.8 1.2*1.0 1,384.9  1,3.1  ,876.0          2.s 1,419.2 1.484.2  1,464.0   . 4e2.2  .49s.4  1.519 I 1.50.9  1.415 9 1. 9A  1,6.9  1.s9 1e  5.9
l*9 se   le*afita  (86e.0) (o04)  (90.1)  268.4  661.2  872.5  879.6   411.5   426.0   481.2   4e4.9  494.7               2 9    26.1   849.   574.    57.6   67.6  57.6  Y77 6   5T7.6
eto .es vo.   1,645I"
12.45
P.1



- 90 -
Annex 3
Table 8.3
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVF.LOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Yield       Price     Investment   Benefits
Base   Increase      Falls     Costs inc.     Lag
Components                Case      by 10%      by 10%      by 10%      1 Year
1. Crops
-Northeast Region        24.3        31.7        16.8        17.5        14.7
-Heilonggang Region      37.4        50.5        24.3        25.5        17.5
Total Crops             34.3       45.8        22.5        23.6        16.9
2. Aquaculture
-Shrimp                  30.1        53.4        18.9        20.2        14.8
-Scallops                63.3        75.1        52.5        53.5        36.4
-Fish                    27.9        43.7        13.7        14.9        12.3
Total Aquaculture       30.4       52.6        19.9        21.2        15.4
3. Livestock
-Cattle                  30.6        55.9         8.5        10.6        10.2
-Sheep                   40.6        60.9        21.8        23.5        15.4
Total Livestock         33.4       57.5        12.4        14.4        11.6
4. Date Intercropping       42.6        44.3        40.8        40.9        37.2
5. Pears                    54.3        58.2        50.1        50.5        41.2
TOTAL PROJECT           32.4       42.9        22.1        23.1        17.3
--- --- -- --- -- - _   -_.__   -_-_  - ---_- -- ---_-- -- --- --__  -- --   --



-91 -                                                       Annex 3
Table 9
NMl /iQCLTIJ OrMAW"IEC
K... Mamitorina indicato.
Inilcator; for Phyalcal                    199i            1991            1995             1998            1994           1996
Progrt_                 tunit   Eat1    Act      Est   Act       Eat   Act       Est   Act       Est   Act      Eat   Act
Water canervancv
Sulfa 'rgloetlon
C n ot  it lns        bNo
Slivic Oates                i
Structures                  No.
Water SaevIn  Pipes         K
Mt c                      Tons
P*&tI cLde Iporta           Tons
Isro.v*d Seeds:
-Wh_at                    Ton"
49.1:                     Tons
-Cotton                   Ton"
d&.                       Tons*
-Othere                   Tona
M"                  ~~~~~~No.
Rehab 1     b i  t to edd   MD
-oats T nbcrcch  )          he.
Rbilt td                     4
an                      NO. h
-Puel PM"e                  No.
-Sublone to Paruege         000 Y
= I.Wiad Hho       lds      No.
Amanlfication Canter       MNo.
Slauohter Noue              No.
Alfalfa f abl"la wt         hn
rah tmgvdms                  ha.hi
Sbhli  Pond. 8neXb.)        hn.
_lah Pond                   ha
SCa lope Chains             NO.
Procesing  acIllties       NO.
Ibifil n Ft  riIlser Plant   Stage
Shonalan FPrtillter Plant  Stag
q'ghou Partilel- bard       Stage
Welalon Paper Hill          Stage
Coura   por        "o.
Project Comoent
"¶V  Study Tours            No aDuratlon
TraintIn                  Wo./Duratlon
Int rntofnAl ConuleUnt
us olndres-  --      .04/ronth
1to efIrna ning)
lTo bo fin li"d at ProJect launch wrkshop (Sept. 191)



- 92 -
AMNIE 3
Table 10
Page 1 of 2
CIJA
113  AGICULTURAL DEYIOPHET PROJECT
3*4K SUPERMISION INPUT INTO K   ACTIVITIES
Approximate ^
Dates                                   Expected Skill           Staff Input
(month/year)      Activity                 Requirements             (staff weeks)
10/90          Supervision Mission     Agroindustries                10.0
Project Launch Work-    Irrigation Engineering
shop. Review of draft   Economics
final designs for agro- Procurement
industries, water       Financial Management
conservancy, procure-
ment and financial
management. Reporting
and M & E.
4191          Review of final          Agroindustries
designs for agro-        Irrigation Engineering       7.0
industries and water
conservancy
Supervision Mission
10191         Review oft  aquaculture  Aquaculture Specialist
and livestock develop-   Livestock/Agriculturist      6.0
ment
Supervision Mission
4/92          Review of seed process-  Seed specialist/Agricul-
ing/agriculture develop-  turist                      6.0
ment and agroindustries  Agroindustries specialist
Economist
10/92         Review of aquaculture    Irrigation Engineer
and water conservancy    Aquaculture Specialist       4.0
components, particu-
1 First two yer. will be Initially devoted to review of designs and construction for
agroinduestries, water conuervancy and *quaculture components tn *cordence with Implementation
schodule chart 2. Some epeclallett my visit the project area while undertaking other
operations.



- 93 -
Table 10
Page 2 of 2
cont'd.
Approximate
Dates                                   Expected Skill           Staff Input
(monthlyear)      Activity                 Requirements             (staff weeks)
larly water master
plan, Government
prepares for Mid-term
review
6/93          Suwervision
mid-term review mission Economist
Irrigation, water master Agriculturist
plan-agriculture, aqua-  Aquaculture Specialist       9.0
culture and livestock    Agroindustries
development - agro-      Specialist
industries and seed
processing
10/93         Government and Hebei    Goverament/IDA teams           6.0
Province to Imple-
ment Recommendations
of Hid-term review and
decide on the nature
of future supervision
missions.
(Field visits may be
needed to follow-up on
mid-term results)
l
1994,1995,1996    At least one super-      (to be determined
vision/year and last    following Hid-term
mission should discuss  Review)
with borrower prepara-
tion of Completion
Report



ANNEX 4
- 94 -                          Page 1
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Shrimp: A Summary of World Market Situation
Tntroduction
1.        World shrimp production has increased dramatically over the past two
decades, mainly as a result of the expansion of shrimp aquaculture in a number
of developing countries, most notably China, Ecuador, Taiwan, Thailand and the
Philippines. The phenomenal rate at which shrimp production has grown in
these countries and the success with which shrimp suppliers have had their
production absorbed in major consuming markets such as Japan and the United
States seems to indicate that producer countries with comparative advantage
have a significant potential to develop exports in this sector. The fact that
shrimp production and exports have grown so rapidly indicates no major insti-
tutional or policy restraints in the major producing and consuming countries.
The principal challenge facing the shrimp indlustry over the next decade is how
to market the increasing quantities of product that will be available. In the
medium term, future worldwide demand for shrimp is unlikely to grow rapidly
enough to absorb the anticipated increase in supplies without a substantial
decline in prices. The situation of overabundant supplies in the 1990s (in
this sense) has a number of implications for producing countries.   They may
have to critically review their production technology, investment strategy,
processing capabilities and marketing practices in order to be competitive in
a declining-price market.
2.        This annex aims to analyze China's position in the world market and
its relation to the project's proposed investment in the production and market
of shrimp.
Production
3.   In 1989 total world shrimp production was 2.4 million tons of shrimp.
Cultured shrimp accounted for 596,000 tons or 27 percent. China became the
world's leading producer of cultur~.d shrimp in 1989, producing about 190,000
tons or 32 percent of world production. Its shrimp production increased dra-
matically, five fold from 1985. Most of its competitors in the export market
for cultured shrimp were also in Asia, with countries in that region producing
75 percent of world production, although there were also major producers in
Latin America. In 1989, the leading producers of cultured shrimp were China
supplied (32 percent), Indonesia (13 percent), and Ecuador (13 percent); the
Philippines and Thailand accounted for 8 percent each; India, Vietnam,
Bangladesh and Malaysia together for 12 percent; and other countries for the
remaining 14 percent. Many of the major exporters of cultured shrimp were
also major producers of capture shrimp, but the dynamic growth in cultured
shrimp production was not matched by any significant growth in capture produc-
tion, which remained roughly stable since 1984. A few major exporters of
shrimp had not established major culture industries by 1990, namely, Mexico
and Australia. The growth in cultured production has moved China from a minor



_ 95 _                 ~~~~ANNEX 4
- 95 -                             -M
Page 2
contributor to the world shrimp market in the early 1980s to the largest world
exporter in 1989.
4.        Chinesew production technology is semi-intensive.  Yield is higher
than in Ecuador and Central America. Normally yield is around 2.0 to 2.5 tons
of 20-22 gram shrimp, with 30 percent to 35 percent survival rates using a
direct stocking technology with stocking density of 300,000 post larvae per
hectare, and a semi-intensive technology without aeration. These survival
rates and yields are good and far better than many othLr countries.
5.        Most shrimp production in China is of the P. orientalis species.
Yhis species can be found in the temperate zones in the five most northerly
maritime provinces, where water temperature ranges from 22-260C, an optimal
condition for this species. White shrimp (P. orientalis and P. vannamei from
Latin America) is the quality standard in both the Japanese and US markets.
It has much broader usage than the now competitive *black tiger shrimp
(P. monodon), which is produced largely in Southeast Asia and to a limited
extent in Guangdong and other South China provinces. It has broader accep-
tance because it is used in both the food service industry and the retail
trade, as wel. as by institutional processors who use mid-sized shrimp for
breading and cooking. Ecuador dominated this market until China surpassed
them in 1988, partly due to production problems (primarily post-larvae short-
age) in Ecuador.
6.        China is presently the low-cost producer of white shrimp.  Chinese
producers have an absolute advantage in relation to the other Asian countries
and more so in comparison to Ecuador and Central America (with the exception
of Honduras, which uses a semi-extensive production method). Production cost
per kg of US$2.59 is 57 percent and 46 percent of that of Ecuador and Panama,
respectively.
7.        Southeast Asian producers of black tiger shrimp, however, Indonesia
in particular, have a significant cost advantage over China and all other
white shrimp producers. Indonesia and Thailand, using extensive production
methods, have costs of 77 percent and 107 percent respectively of China's cost
of producing white shrimp.
Markets
8.        The United States and Japan are the major markets for Chinese
shrimp, importing 47,000 tons and 38,000 tons in 1988 respectively.   Due to
their high incomes, the industrialized countries consumed the major fraction
of world shrimp production in 1988, the United States 27 percent, Japan 22
percent and Europe about 11 percent, for a total of about 60 percent. From
1970 to 1988, shrimp consumption in Japan and the United States grew at aver-
age annual rates of 6.5 percent and 3.75 percent, respectively. In the 1980s,
US consumption accelerated, however, with an average annual rate of increase
of nearly 7.5 percent from 1980-88. Despite the fact that the United States
is itself a large capture producer, its imports increased from 115,000 tons in
1985 to 229,000 tons in 1989. Currently measured price elasticity in the
United States is low (in a range from -0.2 to -0.29), compared to Japan
(-0.68), but it may be ready to increase significantly since shrimp is
increasingly consumed by middle-level American consumers. In contrast to that



- 96 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 3
of the United States, Japanese consumption slowed somewhat in the early 19809,
but between 1984-88, it accelerated again, averaging over 8 percent aniually
during the period. Japanese imports increased from 183,000 tons in 1985 to
2S8,000 tons in 1988.
9.        The EEC shrimp market, the third major market, has been expanding
very rapidly during the past decade. Imports doubled to reach 270,000 mt in
1988, and during 1984-87, European imports Increased at 16 percent per annum.
Coldwater pink shrimp is the preferred variety in this market, but white
shrimp imports have incr ased rapidly in recent years. Per capita shrimp con-
sumption, is presently only moderate at 0.75 kglcapita (compared to the United
States at 1.2 and Japan at 3.0 kg/capita) but is increasing. It is expected
that this market will continue to grow rapidly. In 1988, after several years
of poor acceptance and low imports, black tiger imports into Northern European
countries have started to expand rapidly, with Indonesia and Thailand the
principal sources.
Prices
10.       The International shrimp market is fully responsive, able to absorb
fluctuations in demand with corresponding price movements. Once minimum qual-
ity requirements are met, producers have no problem selling thei. supplies.
Over the past ten years, the real price of shrimp has exhibited a moderately
declining price trend. The US price of imported shrimp declined by about 1.1
percent in real terms between 1977 and 1986. (Yen prices declined more drama-
tically, though, as the yen appreciated). A3 worldwide supplies increase in
the future due to the rapid expansion of shrimp culture, prices are expected
to decline further. The large increase in supply of black tiger shrimp from
Indonesia, Thailand and Philippines in 1989 resulted in a price break, with
dollar prices declining by 13 percent over their 1988 levels. Japanese and US
importers could not liquidate their heavy inventories from their purchase at a
higher price, and had to stop buying in the last quarter of 1989. This
resulted in driving the price of shrimp (both white and black tiger) down fur-
ther with the lowest prices reached in January 1990. Recent market intelli-
gence 1/ indicates that importers have depleted their stock and are again
heavily purchasing both white and black tiger shrimp with the result that
prices have now increased 10 percent to 15 percent above those of January
1990.
11.       Despite this short term recovery, long term prices are still expec-
ted to follow a declining trend.  The Bank-commissioned Asia-Wide Shrimp
study, released in 1989 by Aquatic Farms Ltd. and the 1989 PPR World Bank's
Subsector Study, projected that the real price of shrimp would decrease by
about 6 percent annually during the 1989-94 period in order to induce suffi-
cient demaad to absorb the expected supply. It based this projection on the
following projections and assumptions: production growth of 6 percent per
annum, demand growth of 3.5 percent (based on import-country income growth of
3.5 percent per annum and income elasticity of 1.0), and demand price elasti-
city of -0.3.
11   Shrimp Notes, March 15, 1990.



ANNE 4
-97 -                             Page 4
12.       It is doubtful that this projection is still fully valid due to the
marked change in the structure of production since 1987. The very large
expansion of black tiger production, for instance, had only started in that
year and these studies did not differentiate between the two major shrimp
categories or give projections of the price differential between them.
Analysis
13.       Given the competitive world market, the declining price trend and
the emergence of low-cost black tiger production, the question is whether
China can still remain competitive in shrimp. The cost data presented above
(para. 5) shows that China is fully competitive in the white-shrimp segment of
the market, since even at the current official exchange rate, it is a high-
yield, low cost producer of that variety. A major question awaiting full ana-
lysis, however, is whether lower-cost black tiger producers in Southeast Asia
will expand sufficiently to drag the white shrimp price below even the cost
of low-cost white-shrimp producers like China and Honduras. The question
involves not only the relative production costs of the two varieties, but also
their substitution in demand.
14.       Three scenarios are possible for China:
(a) Low-cost black tiger producers like Indonesia will capture a large
percentage of world export demand, driving out high-cost white
shrimp producers and reducing Chin#'s exports and sharply decreasing
the profitability of Chinese production;
(b) Low-cost black tiger shrimp will capture a large percentage of the
market, but white shrimp will still conmmand a significant price dif-
ferential over black tigers, enabling low-cost white shrimp produc-
ers like China to continue to export white shrimp at high levels and
at lower but still adequate prices, and
(c) The low-cost black tiger producers fail to expand sufficiently to
undercut the world market.
15.       Neither the Asia-Wide Shrimp study nor the Bank Subsector study
present data or analysis that would allow us to choose among these three sce-
narios. The best present estimate is that scenarios (b) and (c) are the most
likely, but this is not certain. There is therefore a need for an update
long-term shrimp market study on a national basis, especially in view of the
fact that the recent rapid growth in production now appears to be levelling
off. The significant decline in world prices has already begun to affect
high-cost producing countries like Ecuador. High costs of feed, labor, and
other factors there have squeezed the profits of shrimp operations and invest-
ment and development have declined significantly. Despite these uncertain-
ties, there are several directions that Chinese shrimp policies can take to
react to and withstand unfavorable international price trends. First, produc-
tion efficiency can be improved through rehabilitation of existing ponds and
use of Improved technology resulting in higher productivity and lower costs.
Second, although Chinese white shrimp have well established demand in the
United States and Japan, it nevertheless experiences a price discount in the



ANNEX 4
98 -                   ~~~~~~Page 5
US market, compared to Ecuadorean shrimp, of about 18 percent. Investing in
improved processing and marketing to increase quality should allow relative
price increases that ould partially counteract the general world price
decline. Third, even the inability to sell large export volumes would have the
compensating advantage of freeing supplies for the domestic market where per
capita consumption of shrimp is still only about 61 grams. The domestic mar-
ket currently exhibits excess demand due to quota reservation for export, and
domeatic prices are currently about 36 percent higher than export prices. If
price elasticity of demand in the domestic market turns out to be high, the
domestic market should offer a very large potential cushion in the event of an
internptional market collapse, and continued investment might be fully justi-
fied.
16.       The Hebei Project.  The major objective of the small shrimp compo-
nent in this project is to demonstrate the increases in production efficiency
and product quality that should prove useful in withstanding any unfavorable
international price trend. It would provide modern production technology to
increase productivity and lower production costs and advanced processing tech-
nology to increase export marketability. These higher performance shrimp pro-
duction facilities would demonstrate potential Chinese comparative advantage
In shrimp production. Incremental production is expected to be only about
4,000 tons per year, of which only 1,500 tons is for exports. This volume is
less thon 2 percent of present Chinese production and 1 percent of export, and
would nc. iffect either Chinese or world market conditions. The project
expects to obtain permission to establish its own brand of export shrimp so
that its expected consistent high quality product can receive brand recogni-
tion for quality in export markets. The project would attempt in this way to
test wkether higher quality Chinese output could narrow or close the current
discount that Chinese shrimp currently draws in the US market and thereby
counter some of the likely future general price decline.



ANNEX 5
- 99 -
CHINA
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOIMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available In the Proiect File
A.   General Reports and Reference Materials
A.1  The Seventh Five-Year Plan for Hebei Provincial's Economic and Social
Development.
A.2  Statistical Yearbook of China 1989, State Statistical Bureau
D.  Renort. and Studies Related to the Project
3.1  The Preliminary Analysis Report on the Feasibility of the Program for the
Comprehensive Development of Agriculture In Nerbei Province by Using
Foreign Investment, The Office of the Program Leading Group of the
Development of Agriculture in Hebei (August 1988-Two Volumes).
B.2  Hebei Agricultural Development Project, FAOICP Project Brief (Decem-
ber 22, 1988).
3.3  Hebei Agricultural Devvlopment Project, PAO/CP. Preparation Report, Two
Volumes (April 19, 1989).
B.4  Report on the Feasibility Study of Making Use of Foreign Capital for
Agricultural Comprehensive Development Project in Hebei Province, Office
of the Lending Group of Making Use of Foreign Capital for Agricultural
Development (Two volumes-May 1989).
3.5  The Supplementary Materials for Water Conservancy Part of the Feasibility
Research Report about Hebei Province Agriculture Comprehensive
Exploitment Hem Using Foreign Funds, Province Agriculture Exploitment
Office, Water Conservancy Department. (August, 1989-Two Volumes).
C.  Working Papers
C.1  Project Costs
C.2 Water Resources/Irrigation Component
C.3  Livestock
C.4  Aquaculture
C . 5 Agro-industries
C.6  Seed Production
C.7  Agriculture Models
C.8  Financial and Economic Analyses.



- 100 _
CHINA                                              Chart 1
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Hebei  Provincial  
GovemmentI
Scientific                   Provincial
and  Technical                 Project Leading
commitee                     Group (P L G)
STC.  
_        Provincial                         Provincial
Provincial           _          Project Management                      Bureau of
ABC                  ------_           Office  (P M  0)                  finan oe
Prefecture
<5                                  ~~~~~PLG
<^    Prefecture                              Prefecture                         Prefecture
ABC                                      P M O                          Bureau of
Is                               Finance
~~~~~ ~~~~County
s                                   ~~~~~PLG
County        1                         County                              County
VLialse ABC                                       PMO                             Bureau of
ACTIVITIES OF PM0S                                                              Finance
§   -Draw up annuai detailed work programs and budgets    ACTwnIES OF STCs
-Review and approve lover level PMO work plans        -Assist in supervising research extension
-mobnitor physicai anci finanidai progress of the project  ancid trnifng progrun
.Coordinate and supevise project implementation       -Review technical plans and formulate
-Review and approve technical specificatons             future plans
i-ialse with central and provincial agencies in projct    -Adve PLGs and PiOs on planning
-ndetak i   p rementation                                   and designing of prject components
-Undertake procurement 
g   -Prepare detailed proJect accounts, audits, reports,  ACTIVIES OF PLGs
and withdrawal applications
§   -Supervise revolving funds established at ABC          -Formulate project policies at all levels
-Facilitate project implementation
§   LE6C                                _______f   o       -Resolve implementation problemsn
Administrative function
§         ~Coordinate and advise      S ~ 



-191
CHINA
CiART2
HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
YEF       1000       1991        1992       t993        1994       ts995
iTEM      QUARTER   t1 1231|4  t |2|3|4  t |2|9411     14           1 2|131 4t    1 |2 ||4
IRRIGATION    _           1L EL
Wa_i mansm                     I I I I I I I I I  1, 1 I I 'I I- i
AGIBRCULTURE                                                           
ch,_  __  ._  _l _fXf
Seef                _        Pz-W   L    ,,1I1 l1i11llJJ-I  
Civ= work
PAnw__          _               _             lllh 
Ttalnhi__                    *___VI     iI11FIl
_ UVESTOCK_.                                                   Il  
Pa_i_edcs.
Trairing               _____< rt--I1IT Ir|f    
AaQUACULTtRE____I 1IL1II1
It   rewpodonn-i        a   zi                
IFe  med s2Z            Zi__
IPardde boardP       ZZplan_tII                         '        IIIII   
PROKJECT E I                __A_N          I11       .         I11            111  
KEY:              __          _           Imp   antion of programs||||   
r~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I I I I I                                               Opsrad on~
F~~ ~ ~~~~ --  _- _- _                          I 
l                u~~~~~l Activtis In 1990 kwkide design pfeparafio  bnd dev_ lo| | 
t               -"~~~~ad mino chll works



HEBEI AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
manaWSCHEDULE
__ _A_                                    _             I a_ . 
Package No. I
Fertilizer Supply         ICB   20.6              _                                                        i.
Package No. 2
Pesticide Supply          ICB    6.4   ivo       :1
Pack_age  no. _                                                                 13111  1    1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1  1                             1   I  I  
2 Fertilizer Plants       ICR   i8. 7  *V"                                                                                                                   
Package No. 4
Cardboard Mill            ICB    6.5  hyin       _
Package No. 5                             _                                         I I _     I            I I I I                                                   -I
Partical Board Plant      ICB   15.8  MoVsmo
Package No. 6
Pumps and totors          tCe      .6  nv=o    _                                             TT7    t                          tn1
Package No. I
Jiniui PUMP Station       LCB    1.0  aIv_i
Package No. 8
Otber Nmatriala           ICE   12.6  hIvo_1
Package No. 9
Technical end  aesearch   ICE    7.0            _tIt 
ACIUM
_ - Ae*~       - _ _ _                                                                                                                   f t $
I~~~~ ~ ~                                     _  ___ __ _ _   -e -                            ,,*e w l1fi    ht1St
.honaeev,QX  W    _DcrDein eO                                                     .Ceo zainslla
4 45*hI0'4150 100                                                                  ao.



CHINA
HEBB AG LTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CrO-pins celnder of m  ain *nUsi  c-op-
LDCAflCNAND~P               Jan   F_      Mar   Apr   May   Jun    Jul   Aug  'Sep    Oct   Nov   Do
LO.    ,AN.F                                                                                   .
ManMonmTenp.in             -3.6  -1.1   6.1   14.1  20.8  25.7  26.8   25.3  20.3  13.8   5.4  -1.6
Wheat                           7                       g 
Whea (Cotton reay crop)
Maize
Cotton (moncrop)               =.
cotton (      ray crop)                                                                              .
Se-~ _ _                                                                         .. 
Peamut                                                       mw,"7mwwmm m2
NORIHDASTALREGION
__ __ _  __   ._   _   _ _    _ _    .                   _.
Msan KoUTenp. InoC          -5.9   -3.8   3.1   11.5  18.1  22.3  25.0  24.3  19.4  12.3   4.1  -3.7
Wheal (relay aftin Paddo)                                     c        e            -    ____
Make (_nt_ _ op)                      e        d              . .
Paddy rlaye(m  a    vhop)1 ,,,,
ftetPotato                                    _Ce   a=
Peamn utz
IU Pfflastis used for eadplod1 nng of cotton In eCo wang_
and for            pdy6e and vogetas In the Nonhesl 



MAP SECTION



11S                lit.                                       ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120  -
CHINA                                                   Sl _ uivceGates
( J> w   X<f bpN;   HEBEI PROVINCE                      t\   Pumping Sations
HEBEI PROVINCE                            £~~~~~~~~~~~~ Processing Plants
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     E:3 Ixp*nded lmgaHonAm wi
o.eilonggong Region interspersed
vnith project wells and wowe
e    ~~~~~~~  >,"   '                       t               ,^_. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~saving pipe
*1     j   >                                                                                   C      l     ain  ' \  _ _ _ _ t - Road,
^R,> 3 9 J sX : y Ro~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rilroz 5
1  W(aGS,l (.) -, . 9 .................. = _ PnPnn~~~~~~~~~~PrWAce Boundariest
We4diong J'-.  <             _   Proect RegionsA and8
42       NX                                        o- 1 4
NEI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SHANXI                     0 HANGNIIAKOU
_    . r                    CO D   1        ~    _            <           s J S   lu                                        A
S  IJIAZ  UANG                               &-....                                                                               A 0
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
I  X I          I I  k    <.:                     :;; sT fi-  KILOMETERS



