Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2159 CHA
(Hebei Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 2, 1990
CREDIT NUMBER 2159 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1990, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Hebei Province (Hebei) with the 
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to Hebei the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and Hebei;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and Hebei 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"ABC" means Agricultural Bank of China, a specialized banking institution 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(c)
"Provincial PMO", means the provincial project management office 
established by Hebei and referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement;
(d)
"Local PMOs" means the local project management offices to be established 
and maintained pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(e)
"Project Entities" means farmers and other entities engaged in carrying 
out the Project at the local level;
(f)
"Project Area" means the Heilonggang and the Northeast Coastal area of 
Hebei;
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
"ha" means hectare.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent
to one hundred sixteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
116,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year  shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2000 and ending March 1, 2025. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2010, shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by 
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.O2 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Hebei to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Hebei therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Hebei to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Hebei in 
accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
Page  4
out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Hebei 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.O2 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Hebei shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Hebei will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.Ol (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section l2.Ol 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower's State Council shall have 
approved this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Hebei, and is legally binding upon Hebei in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  5
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Works                     11,600,000        30%
(2) Machinery and             47,600,000)       100% of foreign
    equipment                           )       expenditures,
                                        )       100% of local
(3) Vehicles, other            1,950,000)       expenditures
    than passenger                      )       (ex-factory
    vehicles                            )       cost) and 50%
                                        )       of local ex-
(4) Materials                 40,620,000)       penditures for
Page  6
                                        )       other items pro-
                                        )       cured locally
(5) Technical                  5,030,000        100%
    assistance
    and training
(6) Unallocated                9,300,000
                              __________
            TOTAL            116,100,000
                             ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR9,300,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 10, 1989.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve management of water resources; 
(ii) to increase agricultural and aquacultural productivity; (iii) to promote market 
analysis of crop production and processing; (iv) to expand agroprocessing activities; 
(v) to strengthen research and extension services; and (vi) to promote the use of crop 
residues in livestock production.
The Project consists of the following parts to be carried out in the Project 
Area, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may 
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Conservancy
 
1.
Expansion and rehabilitation of irrigation facilities in the Heilonggang area, 
including replacement of about 4 existing pumping stations, construction of about 4 
sluice gates in existing flood
drainage channels, drilling of wells, and construction of closed water conduit pipes.
2.
Expansion and rehabilitation of irrigation facilities in Hebei's Northeast 
Coastal area in Tangshan and Qinhuangdao cities.
3.
Carrying out a water resources development plan, including strengthening the 
planning, monitoring, and operating skills of the water conservancy staff of Hebei 
through training and technical
assistance.
4.
Carrying out of research into water resource use, planning and development.
 
Part B:
Agricultural Development
 
1.
Provision of agrochemicals to improve crop production.
 
2.
Improvement of existing seed processing facilities and strengthening of 
institutions that grow, process and market seeds.
3.
Strengthening of agricultural extension capabilities at the county, township and 
Page  7
village levels.
4.
Provision of technical assistance to support agricultural research programs.
 
5.
Provision of high-yielding planting materials, agrochemicals and spraying 
equipment to increase the production of dates and pears.
Part C:
Agricultural Mechanization
 
1.
Provision of fuel tanks and pumps, other equipment, and training to improve the 
efficiency of agromachinery service centers. 
2.
Provision of tools and small size equipment, such as transplanters, 12 
horsepower tractors, welders and lathes. 
Part D:
Livestock Development
 
1.
Establishment of ammonia stations for treatment of straw to improve livestock 
feed.
2.
Reclamation of approximately 17,000 ha of land for use in alfalfa development 
and feeding of livestock.
3.
Carrying out of research into livestock breeding and feeding, meat and commodity 
production, and meat preservation.
4.
Training and support to strengthen livestock extension services.
 
5.
Construction of about 6 slaughterhouses with meat packing and cold storage 
facilities.
Part E:
Aquaculture
 
1.
Rehabilitation of approximately 3,220 ha of existing shrimp ponds and 
construction of approximately 535 ha of new shrimp ponds.
2.
Construction of approximately 715 ha of freshwater fish ponds, including access 
roads.
3.
Provision of equipment, materials and works to support scallop production.
 
4.
Construction of new, and expansion of existing, aquaculture support facilities, 
including hatcheries, feed mills, and cold storage and processing facilities.
5.
Training and technical assistance to strengthen aquaculture research and 
extension capabilities.
Part F:
Agro-Industries
 
1.
Expansion and modernization of the Weixian nitrogenous fertilizer plant.
 
2.
Modernization of the Shenxian phosphate fertilizer plant. 
 
3.
Construction of a new plant for manufacture of medium-density particle board in 
Quzhou.
4.
Construction of a new fluting paper mill in Weixian.
 
5.
Training of staff responsible for managing fertilizer, fluting paper and 
particle board manufacturing plants included in the Project.
Part G:
Institutional Development
 
Strengthening of monitoring, evaluation, implementing and management skills by 
the provision of training and technical assistance to Project staff.
*     *     *
Page  8
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  9
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
