Document of
The World Bank
fOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15700
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2952-CHA)
May 15, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1987 (appraisal)  $1 = Y 3.72
1988             $1 = Y 3.72
1989             $1 = Y 3.76
1990             $1 = Y 4.78
1991             $1 = Y 5.32
1992             $1 = Y 5.53
1993             $1 = Y 5.76
1994             $1 = Y 8.60
1995             $1 = Y 8.50
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 3 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =      3.28 feet (ft
I kilometer (km)          =      0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)       =      10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (ki2)    =    0.4 square miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)= 0.01 km2    =    2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
I mu                      =      666.7 m2 = 0.0667 ha
I kilogram (kg)           =      2.2046 pounds (Ibs)
I metric ton (mt)         =      2,204 pounds (Ibs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8FYP      -  Eighth Five-Year Plan
9FYP      -  Ninth Five-Year Plan
AADT    -  Annual Average Daily Traffic
DF        -  Diversion Factor
ERR       -  Economic Rate of Return
GOVAI  -  Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HPDI    -  Highway Planning and Design Institute
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
ICR       -  Implementation Completion Report
MOC       -  Ministry of Communications
NPV       -  Net Present Value
PMS       -  Pavement Management System
RDB       -  Road Data Bank
SAR      -  Staff Appraisal Report
SPHAB   -  Shaanxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
SPHSDI  -  Shaanxi Provincial Highway Survey and Design Institute
SPTD      -  Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department
TOR       -  Terms of Reference
VOC       -  Vehicle Operating Cost



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ........................................................                                                                                  iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................................................                                                                        iv
PART L IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................................1
A.  Project Objectives .........................................................1
B.  Achievement of Objectives ......................................................... 2
C.  Major Factors Affecting  the Project ........................................................                                     11
D.  Project Sustainability ........................................................                                                  12
E. Bank Performance ........................................................                                                         13
F.  Borrower Performance ........................................................                                                     14
G.  Assessment of Outcome ........................................................                                                   15
H.  Future  Operation ........................................................                                                       15
I. Key Lessons Leamed ........................................................                                                       16
PART IL  STATISTICAL TABLES .....................                                                    ................................... 18
Table  1:  Summary  of Assessments ..................................                                     ...................... 18
Table 2:  Related  Bank  Group  Loans/Credits  .....................................................   19
Table  3:  Project Timetable ........................................................                                                20
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............. 21
Table  5:  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation .............................. ............ 21
Table  6:  Key  Indicators for Project Operations .................................................. 22
Table  7:  Studies Included  in  the Project ........................................................                                 22
Table  8A:  Project Costs ........................................................                                                   23
Table  8B:  Project Costs ........................................................                                                   24
Table  8C:  Project Financing ........................................................                                               24
Table  9:  Economic  Costs and  Benefits ........................................................                                     25
Table  10:  Status of Legal Covenants ........................................................                                        26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................. 27
Table  12:  Bank  Resources:  Staff Inputs ........................................................     2 /
Table  13:  Bank  Resources:  Missions ........................................................                                       28
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................................                                                              29
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR ......................................... 52
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE ........................................................                                                                61
MAPS:
1. Transport Network Shaanxi Province - IBRD 27778
2. Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway - IBRD 27779
T ds document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2952-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Shaanxi Provincial
Highway Project in China for which Loan 2952-CHA, for $50 million, was approved on
June 9, 1988. The last disbursement was on October 28, 1994 and the loan was closed on
December 31, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Otto Raggambi (Consultant, Highway
Engineer) and Han-Kang Yen (Research Analyst) in the Infrastructure Operations
Division, China and Mongolia Department of the East Asia and Pacific Region of the
Bank, and reviewed by Messrs. Richard Scurfield, Chief, EA2IN and Barry Trembath,
Acting Project Adviser, EA2DR. The borrower's implementation evaluation summary for
the project was annexed to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began in February 1995, and an ICR mission visited the
Province in July 1995. The ICR is based on materials available in the project file and
additional data provided by the project executing agencies. The agencies also gave the
Bank copies of their evaluation reports for the highway and rural roads components.
Also, they prepared a manual for the operation of the highway and plans to expand and
manage the road data bank and pavement management programs.






- lv -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2952-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The rapid development of the Chinese economy from 1980 onward greatly
increased road transport demand. Therefore, after the mid-1980s, a major development
objective has been to increase road transport capacity on the heavily trafficked segments
of national and provincial roads. Another has been to gradually improve the road network
and extend it into remote areas. The Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project reflects these
priorities, together with the need to build institutions and transfer technology to provincial
transport departments.
2.    The project's primary objectives were to: (a) expand road transport capacity in
the heavily developed corridor between Xi'an, the provincial capital, and the important
industrial center of Tongchuan; (b) repair roads damaged by floods and improve the
condition of some provincial roads in one of the less developed regions; (c) introduce a
data bank and management system to guide road investment decisions; and (d) train staff
and acquire equipment to transfer advanced technology.
3.    The objectives reflected the physical and developmental needs of the Province's
highway subsector, the central Government development strategy, and the Bank assistance
strategy for the subsector.
Implementation Results and Experience
4.    The project's key objective, the construction of a new highway between Sanyuan
and the northern end of Tongchuan, was achieved, although at a higher cost than
estimated and, according to the reevaluated Economic Rate of Return (ERR), with a
lower yield: 18.1 percent versus the SAR estimate of 27.8 percent. The design changes
introduced during implementatioh, in aggregate, have contributed to the higher cost of
construction. However some of the changes provide longer-term operational advantages,
such as the provision of controlled access along the full length of the highway. Some
other changes had the risk of introducing traffic capacity constraints by narrowing the
designed width for a section of the highway from four traffic lanes to two traffic lanes.
However, the adverse impact of this change has been greatly reduced by the slower than



_v_
expected build up of traffic on the highway, and by the measures taken to complete the
construction of the omitted two traffic lanes by the end of year 2000.
5.    The Rural Roads program is seen as a well-conceived component that was, after
some delay, successfully implemented, achieved its anticipated impact on economic
development, contributed to higher income levels, and increased mobility for the
communities affected.
6.    The equipment acquired, with some minor exception, was appropriate for the
intended purposes. The procurement process, although delayed and perceived as
cumbersome by the executing agencies, was accomplished according to Bank guidelines.
7.    The staff training program differed somewhat from its original plan. Training and
study tours abroad dominated, and the number trained was well below original estimates.
Thus, the cost of training per person-month was substantially higher than envisaged.
While it is difficult to measure the impact of training, most of the courses were regarded
as beneficial. Nevertheless, planning, preparing and executing future training will need to
be done more carefully to ensure it is more cost-effective and that more staff participate.
S.    The collection and storage of road data for highway planning progressed well
within the pilot Road Data Bank (RDB) development and application exercise. So too did
the Pavement Management System (PMS) for guiding road investment decisions. Still,
both programs fell short of expectations, which, it seems, were over ambitious.
Summary of Finding., Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The project was implemented satisfactorily and as planned, except for some design
changes, which, overall, had adverse impacts on the cost of the highway but had either
longer term operational advantages or the risk of trafflc capacity constraints, which,
because of follow up actions, has now been substan.! ally reduced. Further, sufficient
evidence already exists that the project's development objectives were substantially
achieved and that the condition of the project roadsi and benefits (indicated in the ICR) can
be sustained and are unlikely to experience substantive risks.
WO.   The condition of the investment-related components, such as the Sanyuan-
Tongchuan Highway and five roads improved and built, is expected to be preserved
through regular maintenance. Further, to help ensure the highway operates efficiently, the
Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) prepared an Operations Manual to
regularly monitor key performance indicators. The RDB and PMS programs, supported
by the project, are also expected to be sustained and even broadened (to cover the whole
Province) according to an Operation and Supervision Plan that SPTD recently produced.
The impact of technology transfer through acquisition of modern equipment and staff
training should also benefit institutional development for many years.



- vi -
11.   The following lessons are relevant to future Bank-financed highway projects in
China:
*  Design changes were needed under this project due to inadequate location
studies. Therefore both land use and the development potential along major
new highways need to be adequately assessed in location studies to avoid
design changes that could be costly and disrupt the implementation of works;
*  The contractors' experience and available resources were not thoroughly
evaluated during the prequalification period, causing project delays and
adversely affecting its quality. Thorough contractor assessments are therefore
needed in the prequalification process;
*  Chinese and Bank costing procedures for civil works are different, and
agreeing to a common method would provide more reliable and consistent cost
and ERR estimates for highway investments. The adoption of similar
procedures is advocated; and
*  The staff training program, which incurred high person-month costs and had
lower than expected participation, highlighted the need for a thorough review
of training under Bank-financed highway projects.






- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2952-CHA)
PART I. IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PRojEcT OBJEcrIVEs
1.    China joined the World Bank Group in 1980 and lending operations began soon
after. However, B'nk involvement with highway infrastructure began only in April 1983,
with the identification of the first Highway Project (Ln. 2539-CHA/Cr. 1954-CHA). That
project provided funding to nine provinces to improve provincial roads and fill in the
critical missing links, particularly those which constrained inter-provincial road transport.
Although the involvement was limited, this initial step helped familiarize the Bank with the
highway subsector issues in China and identify subsectoral priorities in subsequent
projects.
2.    The Bank's major objective for the highway subsector was to provide additional
capacity on heavily congested sections of primary provincial and inter-provincial
highways. After the first Highway Project, the lending program expanded rapidly, with
five highway projects between May 1987 and May 1989 (see Table 2, Part II).
3.    The objectives of the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, approved in June 1988,
were to: (a) expand road transport capacity in the heavily developed corridor between
Xi'an, the provincial capital, and the important industrial center of Tongchuan; (b) repair
flood-damaged roads and improve selected roads in an economically less-developed
region; (c) introduce road planning methods by creating a road data bank and a road
management system to guide investment decisions; and (d) train staff and acquire
equipment in order to transfer advanced technology to the subsector.
4.    In retrospect, it appears that project objectives were generally realistic, well
articulated and understood by the borrower and the project executing agencies. Further,
they were consistent with both the Government's strategy and the Bank's assistance
strategy for developing the road transport subsector. Although the project was not unduly
complex some unforeseen design changes in the highway component contributed to cost
increases, which combined with less than forecast level of traffic have adversely effected
the economic rate of return.



-2 -
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Project objectives were substantially achieved as indicated by the following review
of various components.
Construction of the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
6.    The 66.4 km highway was divided into two segments: a 51.3 km four-lane divided
Class I standard highway between Sanyuan and Chuankou, a town just south of
Tongchuan, and a 15.1 km two-lane Class II standard road between Chuankou and
Houliu, a town just north of Tongchuan. The construction was considered a logical
extension of the 34 km Xi'an-Sanyuan highway, which was completed under the first
Bank-financed highway project. It was further justified because: (a) the existing road
could not handle projected traffic growth; (b) traffic congestion and accident rates were
exceeding tolerable levels; and (c) the economic evaluation indicated the proposed
investment would yield an ERR of about 27.8 percent.
7.    Engineering Design. The Shaanxi Provincial Highway Survey and Design
Institute (SPHSDI), under the Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department (SPTD),
designed the project. It was reviewed and cleared by the Ministry of Communications
(MOC) as well as the Bank. Nevertheless, during implementation, a number of design
changes were needed, including the following:
(a)   At project preparation, the Shaanxi Provincial Archeological Relics
Department endorsed the construction of a four-lane highway near the
archaeologically sensitive area situated between Yaoxian and Chuankou.
However, further investigations shortly before construction revealed that
the area containing the relics (Yaozhou Kilns) was more extensive than had
been previously identified. In the interest of limiting the risk of interfering
with the archeological relics, the Relics Department approved the
construction of only two lanes of the originally designed four-lane, double
carriageway highway across a 2 km long protection zone.
(b)   Although the original design was accepted by Yaoxian County in the
project preparation phase, concerns emerged about the building of an
embankment along the eastern outskirts of Yaoxian township because of its
severe impact on land development: The original scheme would have
required several industries to be relocated and 2,000 residents to be
resettled. At the County's request, the original design of a four-meter high
embankment segment of the four-lane highway was changed to a two-lane
wide elevated structure for 2.7 km.
(c)   Originally, it was not envisaged that the highway would be built as a limited
access toll highway. However, based on drivers' behavior and accident
records for the Xi'an-Sanyuan section of the highway (opened in late
1989), the advantage of changing the new highway between Sanyuan and
Chuankou (51.3 km) into one with limited access was clear. Thus, the



- 3-
decision was made to invest in the construction of six interchanges, 10
structures to eliminate at-grade crossings, and fences for the highway along
its length. This conformed with the Government's policy to build new
high-class toll highways exclusively for motorized traffic in the interest of
highway safety and cost recovery.
8.    Due to the effects of the design changes described in para 7 (a) and (b), which
restricted the width of the highway on two sections between Yaoxian and Chuankou, the
substantial increase of cost associated with the design changes indicated in para 7 (b) and
(c), and some constraints on SPTD's budget at the time, SPTD decided to build the 20.3
km section of the highway between Yaoxian and Chuankou as a two-lane Class II road, as
an interim measure, instead of a four-lane Class I highway as originally intended. The
Province was aware of the potential bottleneck created by the reduced highway width and
moved ahead with the design of the second carriageway, the construction of which is now
included in the Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, which was approved by the
Board in March 1996. Because less traffic has been diverted from the existing road to the
new highway than expected, particularly on the section between Yaoxian and Chuankou
[para. 16 (b)], the fact that only a two-lane width was provided for that highway section
under the project has had no adverse impact on traffic operations so far. Moreover, with
the scheduled completion of the second carriageway by the end of 2000, it is unlikely that
capacity constraint would develop in the interim period.
9.    The change to a limited access highway was expected to be highly beneficial in
terms of smoothing the traffic flow, eliminating accidents with non-motorized traffic and
pedestrians, and reducing the risk of accidents with motorized traffic. Although this
section of the highway has only been open since 1993, it appears that these expectations
are being realized. There were a number of other design changes with less impact on
costs and traffic operations, for which the contractors received complete work variation
orders.
10.   Implementation and Supervision. Civil works were procured as agreed at
negotiations. The only difference was minor and, in the Bank's view, positive: An 18 km
section of the highway that passes through an archaeologically-sensitive area was awarded
to local contractors after local bidding procedures under four contracts, instead of being
executed through force account. The change reflects the Province's reorientation to
competitive contracting practices. Highway construction was originally scheduled to start
in February 1989 and be completed in 24 months, at the end of January 1991. However,
the major contracts began in April 1990, after a 14-month delay; and, due to substantial
design changes, some started only in March/April 1991. The first 31 km section of the
highway (between Sanyuan and Yaoxian) was substantially completed and opened by
September 1992, and the full highway was opened at the end of 1992-almost two years
later than scheduled. The still-outstanding civil works were completed during 1993;
delays were caused by slower-than-expected progress with pre-construction activities,
particularly procurement, which was held up for about 10 months. Further, the contract
period for larger contracts was increased from the original 24 months to 30 months.



- 4 -
11.   Construction was generally satisfactory, although some problems occasionally
occurred: (a) early in the implementation, the contractors could not get access to some
sections of the highway which delayed the commencement of works and, later, some
obstructions that remained in the highway alignment created work stoppages -- both
problems were resolved with the local governments' help; (b) although contractors for the
major contracts had been pre-qualified, some lacked the experience, resources and
managerial skills to execute the works efficiently, and their shortcomings adversely
affected the works' progress and quality; (c) some subcontractors had to be removed
because of unsatisfactory performance; (d) the highway crosses terrain in predominantly
"loess" soil, where landslides periodically interrupted the effort; and (e) the contractors'
lack of experience, and the occasional use of poor quality machinery affected the quality of
the paving on some highway segments.
12.   Highway construction was supervised by a joint team of foreign and local
consultants and provincial technical personnel. Intensive initial training in supervision and
quality control measures helped overcome the local staffls lack of experience in
supervising the construction of high-class highways. After initial shortcomings, the team
became more effective in performing quality and environmental protection control, and it
is to its credit that, by rejecting poor quality work and guiding the contractors, the
highway was completed to a generally satisfactory technical standard, although with some
deficiencies in the riding quality of the pavement on some sections of the highway.
13.   Environmental Protection. During the highway design and construction,
attention was paid to environmental issues, including roadside drainage and slope
protection. However, because of the type of terrain and the soil, the drainage systems are
still deficient on several highway sections and the risks of erosion and water pollution are
substantial. Where possible, the embankment slopes and excavated areas were protected
with grass and other vegetation. However, additional and, for some of the areas, repeated
planting will be need before the slopes can be stabilized and protected against erosion.
Unfortunately, the soil along the highway is such that the risk of slope failures and erosion
cannot be fully eliminated. The High-Class Highway Administration Bureau of SPTD,
which is responsible for operating and maintaining the highway, is aware of the
deficiencies and environmental risks involved, and a program was prepared to continue the
necessary improvements and maintenance. Regular reporting on protection and
maintenance activities will be made according to the requirements in the highway
Operations Manual (para. 46).
14.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Although land acquisition, resettlement
and compensation procedures agreed upon at negotiations were followed and land area
requirements changed only marginally, the cost of land acquisition and compensation
increased from Y 34.55 million to Y 67.73 million. The substantial interval between the
time when the original estimates were made and the time payments were actually made
contributed to the almost 100 percent increase in compensation. Also, some farmers were
dissatisfied about interference with irrigation facilities, access routes to farmland and other
services. But, local governments helped SPTD resolve these issues satisfactorily. The
number of persons resettled remained at about 1,400, as originally surveyed. The Bank's



- 5 -
Resettlement Review Mission visited Shaanxi Province in November/December 1994, and,
after assessing the resettlement process, confirmed that actions were carried out
satisfactorily and in line with Bank policies and procedures.
15.   Construction Costs. SAR cost estimates of the highway civil works were
Y 228.30 million, including physical and price contingencies, while the final cost, based on
certified payments to the contractors, was Y 372.75 million, an increase of about 63
percent. Of the increase, 58 percent was due to greater-than-expected physical quantities
and extra work carried out through variation orders issued to the contractors, and 42
percent was due to price escalation being greater than assumed at appraisal. Although
savings were gained by eliminating one of the carriageways, most were absorbed by the
Y 27.6 million additional cost of the 2.7 km elevated highway (which was constructed
instead of the earth embankment). The conversion of the highway to a limited-access toll
facility cost about Y 30.0 million.
16.   Economic Evaluation. The ICR economic evaluation is presented in Annex 1.
The ICR estimate of the ERR for the Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway is 18.1 percent
compared to the SAR estimate of 27.8 percent. The re-estimation of the ERR was based
on final construction costs, revised indices for shadow pricing, actual corridor traffic data
and the split of traffic between the existing arterial road and the new highway from 1993
to mid-1995, revised traffic forecasts from mid-1995 onwards, and updated vehicle
operation costs (VOC). In general, the following explain the lower ERR:
(a)   The economic cost of the highway in the ICR, at July 1995 constant prices,
is about 58 percent higher than the SAR estimate.
(b)   While traffic growth in the corridor between 1985 and mid-1995 was only
slightly lower than the SAR forecast, the traffic diversion rate from the
existing arterial road to the new highway was significantly lower than
estimated, for the following reasons: (i) At appraisal, the highway was not
expected to be operated as a toll facility, and no allowance was made for
the impact of tolls on traffic diversion. (ii) The arterial road that parallels
the new highway was upgraded during 1992-94. Its pavement was
widened from about 7 m to 12 m, providing additional capacity and
therefore reducing the attractiveness of the new highway. (iii) The VOC
saving related to the shorter distance of travel on the new highway
compared to the existing arterial road is, according to actual data, less than
was assumed in the SAR. A closer analysis of the traffic pattern has
revealed that, for other than long-distance through-traffic, the highway
does not provide travel distance saving, which normally is regarded as an
important incentive for diversion even for relatively shorter trips. The
reason for this is that travel on access roads from population centers to the
new highway adds to the overall travel distance, but was not considered in
the SAR economic evaluation. Longer distance of travel even for shorter
trips is also a disincentive for diverting to the new highway. (iv) It is
generally recognized that utilization of new highways, particularly toll



- 6 -
facilities, increases gradually (called the "ramp period" in recent technical
literature). Therefore, the ICR forecast for traffic growth, which is based
primarily on recent trends, could be regarded as more conservative than
that indicated in the SAR.
17.  In the SAR the highway investment cost used at arriving at the ERR was based
exclusively on the estimated cost of civil works. To maintain comparatibility of the
economic evaluations between the SAR and ICR, the ICR economic evaluation is also
based on the final cost of civil works, amounting to Y 372.75 million (in current prices).
A more common methodology is to include in the highway investment cost other well
identifiable cost items, such as the cost of land acquisition and resettlement, construction
supervision and possibly some others. When the final cost of land acquisition and
resettlement and construction supervision is taken into consideration at Y 67.73 million
and Y 6.0 million (Table 8A, Part II) respectively, they represent about a 20 percent
increase in the economic cost, which, according to the sensitivity analysis, lowers the ERR
for the highway investment to 16.1 percent. Arriving at more reliable estimates for
highway investment cost, and thereby a better estimate for ERRs, is handicapped by the
substantive difference between the Chinese and Bank approaches to the costing of
highway investments. This is an area warranting close coordination between China's
Ministry of Communications and the Bank in the interest of improving costing procedures
and arriving at more reliable economic evaluation results for highway investments.
Rural Roads
18.   Originally, the Rural Roads program comprised the following:
(a)   Improved road sections: Shangnan-Yunxi (105 km), Shangxian-Zhashui
Road (130 km), and Pingli-Zhenping (60 km);
(b)   Repaired flood damage: Shangxian-Shangou Road (101 km) and Sehe-
Manchuan Road (73 km).
19.   All five roads form part of the key arterial network and link seven counties/cities in
Shangluo and Ankang prefectures, which, with a population of about 350,000, represent
one of the poorest regions of Shaanxi Province. Lack of adequate transport infrastructure
was found to be one of the major obstacles to economic growth in this mountainous
region. The rationale for expanding and rehabilitating the road sections was that this
could improve transport service and contribute to higher income levels and alleviate
poverty.
20.   Preparation of the program was based on the assessment of road network needs by
Shaanxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (SPHAB) and SPHSDI. A feasibility
study for a rural roads improvement program and preliminary engineering design for the
selected roads were completed at the end of 1987. The engineering design was produced
by prefectural and provincial design institutes, and was based on local experience and
aimed for least-cost solutions obtained by applying appropriate technology and using
locally available equipment, materials and man-power.



- 7 -
21.   Some change in the program's scope occurred after SPTD's proposal in early
1990 to construct a new 50 km road link between Langao and Zhenping, instead of
improving the Pingli-Zhenping Road, as originally planned. Based on the explanation for
the change and the economic evaluation supporting the viability of a new road, the Bank
accepted SPTD's proposal.
22.   Implementation and Supervision. The repair of the flood damaged roads began
in early 1988 under retroactive financing as originally scheduled, but was completed only
in December 1991 with a delay of about 24 months. The delay was largely due to
exceptionally heavy rainfalls during the fall of 1988 and the summer of 1989. The
improvements of the Shangnan-Yunxi and Shangxian-Zhashui Roads commenced in mid-
1988 and were completed in March 1992 with 15 months delay. For both groups of
roads, because of the damage caused by heavy rains, some of the already completed works
had to be redone. The construction of the Langao-Zhenping road, under two contracts,
started only in April 1990, was completed at the end of 1992 with only 3 months delay.
23.   The mountainous terrain and adverse weather conditions contributed to
implementation difficulties, as did shortages in equipment, which required major reliance
on the labor force. However, particularly in the harvesting seasons, there was shortage
even in manpower. Although with substantial delay, the Rural Roads program was
satisfactorily completed, and as confirmed by Bank staff visiting ongoing works,
construction quality was commensurate with the technology adopted, which satisfied the
technical requirements for the designated road standards.
24.   The construction was supervised by teams of technical personnel from the
respective county/city transport units who operated under directives of the SPHAB and
the prefectural transport bureaus. Since regular on-site supervision had not been practiced
before on similar construction jobs in this part of the Province, it took some time for staff
to become familiar with contract management and quality control procedures. However,
during implementation, in addition to the experience gained on the job, a group of local
technical personnel were able to obtain formal training in relevant fields to enhance the
effectiveness of quality control.
25.   Construction Cost. The SAR's cost estimate for the Rural Roads program was
Y 159.1 million, including physical and price contingencies. The aggregate amount of the
seven contracts was Y 105.57 million, while the final cost, including additional works and
price increase, was Y 122.70 million, representing an increase of about 16 percent over
the original contract but about 23 percent below SAR estimates. This lower cost could be
explained by the economical approach to design and strict budget control during
construction.
26.   Economic Evaluation. As detailed in Annex 1, the ICR estimate of the aggregate
ERR for the Rural Roads program is 41.5 percent, varying between 21.1 percent and 99.2
percent for individual roads. An overall comparison of ERRs for this program cannot be
made between the SAR and ICR estimates since economic evaluation in the SAR was
presented only for the improvement of three roads, one of which was deleted. For the



-8 -
other two roads, ERR estimates are similar, for one road modestly higher and for the other
modestly lower: (a) for the Shangnan-Yunxi Road (105 km), SAR and ICR estimates of
ERR are 18 percent and 24.5 percent, respectively, and (b) for the Shanxian-Zhashui Road
(130 km), estimates are 25.0 percent and 21.1 percent.
27.   The Rural Roads program greatly improved the condition of key arterial routes
that now provide all-weather motorized vehicular access to communities in the region.
Improved transport services contributed to the accelerated development of the regional
economy and are expected to foster the exploitation of mineral resources and transport of
farm products. The execution of the works created job opportunities in nearby
communities. Also, the standard of living showed some improvement: Annual income per
farmer increased from Y 164 in 1988 to Y 569 in 1994 and it is reasonable to assume that
part of the increase was due to better access to road transport and increased mobility in
the region.
Equipment Procurement
28.   The following items were purchased at an estimated $2.4 million, including
physical and price contingencies:
(a)   Laboratory equipment, training tools and transport vehicles for vocational
technical training schools ($860,000);
(b)   Instruments and equipment to evaluate road conditions ($290,000);
(c)   Equipment for RDB (Road Data Bank) and PMS (Pavement Management
System) programs ($1.25 million).
The final cost, $2.1 million, was less than appraised, with items (a), (b) and (c) being
$1.32 million, $0.57 million and $0.21 million, respectively.
29.   As stipulated in the loan agreement, about 60 percent of the equipment was to be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. However, since the
items to be purchased were relatively inexpensive and available off-the-shelf, the Bank
waived the ICB requirement and agreed that all these items could be procured through
international and local shopping.
30.   The equipment acquired for SPTD's vocational-technical schools has been very
well used. In recent years, about 2,600 technicians and 500 drivers were trained, and they
greatly benefited from the new acquisitions.
31.   The instruments and computer hardware and software chosen to help set up the
RDB were also satisfactory, although the selection process was difficult because of
uncertainty about whether the items available on the market would operate satisfactorily
under Chinese conditions. As it turned out, they met all expectations.
32.   However, the same cannot be claimed for the equipment chosen to measure road
conditions. Some of the units still have operating problems that stem from the complex



- 9 -
nature of the equipment and calibration problems. Also, the data output sometimes differs
from Chinese standards for which no appropriate adjustment has yet been made and it
appears the training for operators has not been very successful.
Staff Training Program
33.   The objectives of the staff training program were to: (a) improve the proficiency of
engineers and others by sending some abroad for academic and practical training as well as
international conferences; (b) strengthen the capacity of highway institutes and SPTD's
technical schools by providing equipment, training aids and books, and (c) invite foreign
experts to help upgrade the curricula. It was anticipated that the $400,000 budget be split for
(a) English language training for 30-40 persons at $20,000; (b) professional training abroad,
including study tours, of 10 SPTD officials, which amounted to 30 person-years at $280,000
and (c) seminars organized in China with the involvement of foreign exerts, at $100,000 (see
Attachment 2 to the Minutes of Negotiations on April 27, 1989).
34.   Soon after the project began, it was recognized that organizing training courses on
various topics for a relatively small group of staff from just one provincial transport department
was neither practical nor economic. At the Bank's initiative, and after consultation with MOC
and other provincial transport departments, an understanding was reached in late 1989 that
most of the staff training under ongoing Bank-financed highway projects would be coordinated
by MOC. Accordingly, MOC prepared and administered training programs, sharing cost with
the provinces receiving Bank assistance for highway projects being implemented more or less
concurrently with the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project. However, it was also agreed that
some training programs could be arranged independently by any of the provincial transport
departments for their own staff.
35.   The training included 12 courses and study tours and involved 53 staff, for a total of
80.5 person-months at $505,000. Eleven of the 12 were coordinated by MOC, as outlined
above. Training was offered on: (a) RDB fundamentals and operations as practiced abroad;
(b) surveys of road conditions and evaluation methodologies for pavement; (c) the preparation
of medium- and long-term road development plans for arterial and rural roads; (d) project
preparation involving evaluation methods; (e) project management, including financial aspects;
(f) advanced highway design, including computer applications; and (g) administering contracts
and supervising construction. These areas of training were well chosen, and provided SPTD
staff with both immediate and long-term benefits. Training for supervising construction
involved some courses abroad (for a total of 928 person-months) and was carried out
separately from the program under the foreign consultant services contract for construction
supervisors. There were also extensive classroom and on-the-job training programs for local
supervisors at the time the works were being constructed.
36.   While the MOC-coordinated training was expected to be more economic than separate
training for each province, the actual cost of $6,270 per person month is far higher than the
SAR estimates of 30 person-years for $280,000, or an average of $780 per person-month.
This seems to be attributable to the fact that contrary to expectations that some courses would
be conducted in China, almost all were abroad, which greatly increased travel and subsistence



- 10-
costs, and cost of consultants for organizing and facilitating study tours. In a few instances,
courses were arranged through state road authorities and were less expensive. While these
high costs point to the need to explore other ways to conduct training, the program for SPTD
staff directly exposed them to advanced technologies abroad, which may have been more
successful than classroom type presentations.
Programs for Road Planning, Pavement Strengthening and Maintenance
37.   When the project was prepared, it was thought the initial programs for data
collection in the Province (to improve methods of road planning and practices of
strengthening and maintaining pavements) would be part of a study whose objectives
included: (a) establishing a road data base compatible with national guidelines that would
include an inventory of permanent features and current conditions of existing paved roads;
(b) beginning regular monitoring of current conditions of paved roads; (c) identifying
pavement overlay and strengthening needs and resource requirements for about 7,500 km
of paved roads; and (d) implementing a pilot study for planning and managing
maintenance, compatible with national guidelines, so as to develop a systematic approach
in this area. The study was expected to take 15 months and involve about 80 person-
months of local and foreign personnel input (see the TOR in the SAR Annex 2).
38.   However, the study was not carried out as planned because it was overtaken by
central Government policies which instituted a nationwide approach to road planning,
pavement strengthening and maintenance. A group was set up under MOC, headed by its
Director of Highway Administration, to guide and coordinate the programs. MOC had
already began to plan a nationwide RDB program in 1985 in each province and autonomous
region of the country; the idea was to use the data to improve highway planning and project
formulation, as well as for statistical purposes. The RDB framework was developed in MOC's
Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) in the late 1980s; the PMS began in MOC's
Highway Scientific Research Institute, also in the late 1980s.
39.   By the early 1990s, reasonably good progress had been made with both the RDB
and the PMS programs. Therefore, MOC and the Bank agreed that it would be more
efficient and consistent to develop local capability for both of these systems, rather than
approach them separately in each of the provinces with external assistance. To introduce
the PMS, 15 provinces/municipalities were selected, which included Shaanxi Province and
the following nine provinces, that had Bank-financed highway projects scheduled for
implementation during the Eight Five-Year-Plan (8FYP) and 9FYP periods: Hebei,
Shandong, Jiangsu, Guangdong, Jiangxi, Zhejiang, Sichuan, Xinjiang and Henan. The
Bank supported MOC's endeavor, and the highway projects helped finance the acquisition of
equipment, including computer hardware and software, instruments for land-based land surveys
and geographic information systems.
Road Data Bank Development and Application
40.   Once the RDB system was designed by HPDI, Baoji Prefecture in Shaanxi Province
was selected to carry out a pilot study at prefecture level. The system was designed to operate
at the municipal/prefectural, provincial, and state levels, designated as third, second and first



-11-
levels, respectively. With the help of computer hardware and software and instrumentation
provided under the project, SPTD was able to create a data base comprising 490 items and
complete the Baoji pilot exercise satisfactorily. SPTD introduced the third level RDB system
to four other prefectures/municipalities during 1995; the model can be replicated in other
provinces. The pilot study was highly successful, largely through the use of local talent and
resources. The Bank's contribution to it included periodic advice by consultations with Bank
personnel on some technical aspects, acquisition of equipment, including computer software
and hardware, and an extensive RDB study tour enabling a group of Chinese staff to be
exposed to techniques and methods abroad.
Pavement Management System Development and Application
41.   Shaanxi is one of the pilot provinces included in MOC's program to introduce the
PMS. Preparations began in February 1991, foUowed by training courses in December 1991
and August 1992 in Shandong Province, and coordinating sessions with MOC in Beijing in
January 1993. The PMS was applied in Baoji prefecture in early 1993 with the collection of
key road condition data for about 840 km of roads. This effort succeeded and the prefecture
accepted the program as an effective planning tool. The PMS-generated outputs are being
used to help authorities make investment decisions for road improvement and maintenance in
the framework of the budgetary process. By the end of 1995, the system was extended to
cover five of the Province's 10 prefectures/ municipalities, that had 4,754 km of paved roads,
or 54.3 percent of Shaanxi's 8,715 km paved arterial roads. Extending the system to the
remaining network will continue during the next three to four years. The PMS is administered
by SPTD along with SPHAB's prefectural and municipal branches.
42.   Setting up the RDB and PMS organizations, obtaining equipment and computer
programs, and gaining experience using them in Shaanxi Province took longer than the
15 months originally assigned in the SAR. Also, because the concepts were so new, time
was needed for those involved at the various levels of provincial and prefectural transport
organizations to recognize the programs' usefulness. Thus, despite the progress in
Shaanxi, more effort, budgetary support and overall-acceptance of using RDB and PMS
output for planning and budgeting purposes will be needed if the programs are to expand
and cover the entire provincial road network. In this respect, the Province's intention to
expand the programs and take other measures in SPTD's Operation and Supervision Plans
should help sustain the RDB and PMS (para. 49).
C. MAJOR FACTORs AFFECTING THE PROJECT
43.   Project implementation did not suffer from major adverse effects. No extraneous
major factors on the national level affected the project, other than inflation, which reduced
the budgetary resources of the project executing agencies. Budgetary constraint, in
addition to the physical obstructions, had influenced the Province's decision in reducing
the width of the highway from four lanes to two lanes between Yaoxian and Chuankou.
Also, central Government sectoral policy affected the RDB and PMS development and
implementation, but the change in approach from that outlined in the SAR was considered
to be appropriate. Also, MOC's decision in early 1990 to establish a Technical



- 12 -
Coordination Unit to liaise between the Bank and the provinces greatly helped implement
this and other Bank-financed provincial highway projects.
44.   The fact that the project was an expansion of one undertaken earlier (in part in the
same Province) helped SPTD administer it in a relatively smooth fashion. Key personnel
were reasonably familiar with the Bank's policies and procedures, and no measurable
conflict or delay emerged on this account. However, the major design changes needed for
the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway point to the lack of adequate land use planning and
coordination among provincial and local government entities during the highway
alignment location studies.
45.   The SAR expected the project to be completed by the end of 1993 and this target
has been substantially achieved, although some components were delayed when compared
to the detailed schedule in Annex 3 of the SAR. The start of construction of the Sanyuan-
Tongchuan highway was delayed by about two years, and instead of two years it took
about three years to complete the works. The delay occurred mainly in finalizing the
bidding documents and during the procurement process. The schedule for procuring
equipment could be seen as overly optimistic in light of the executing agency's limited
experience with Bank's procurement requirements and the country's internal clearance
constraints. Also, the construction period was longer than planned, partly because of
design changes. The Rural Roads program was completed almost two years later than
expected, mostly because of adverse weather conditions. However, the SAR made
allowance for such delays by setting the completion date of the project as December 31,
1993, and the loan closing for December 31, 1994; in addition, after delays in the earlier
years, disbursements caught up with the SAR schedule in FY92, and remained on target
thereafter (Table 4, Part II).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
46.   Provided the roads are properly maintained the benefits generated by the project's
civil works components are expected to be sustainable. Although the executing agency
for the Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway component was not obligated to provide an
operational plan as part of the ICR, it is an indication of SPTD's commitment to the
sustained and satisfactory operation of the highway, that it has prepared an Operation
Manual for monitoring the operational features of the highway, as suggested by the Bank.
The Manual contains 22 monitoring formats with which to gauge the highway's
operational performance.
47.   The sustainability of the rural roads will depend largely on regular and appropriate
routine and periodic maintenance for these roads, using resources earmarked from the
road maintenance funds. Nevertheless, because the roads are located in a mountainous
region and exposed to frequent and severe rains that can cause extensive damage and
interrupt traffic, emergency maintenance funds might be needed periodically to restore the
roads expeditiously.
48.   The equipment procured for the maintenance and operation of the highway had
been carefully selected to meet quality and up-to-date technology requirements. Local



- 13 -
personnel had been trained to operate the units, and spare parts and maintenance facilities
are available to ensure that the units will provide many years of service. Because of rapid
technological advances, some of the computer hardware and software may succumb to
early obsolescence, and will need to be upgraded or replaced. The operational problems
encountered with the road condition survey equipment (para. 32) are expected to be
overcome as technical staff and operators become more experienced with the handling of
the units.
49.   The Province is aware of the need to consolidate the accomplishments of the RDB
and PMS programs; at the request of the Bank, SPTD prepared Operation and
Supervision Plans to help ensure the upkeep and further expansion of both, in the
Province.
50.   The key areas of training (para. 35) were selected according to priorities for
transferring technical know-how to the trainees and their work units. Traditionally,
Chinese engineers have been very receptive to advanced technologies and have the
qualifications and perseverance to apply most of the new methods. Also, the Chinese style
of working in teams is particularly conducive to spreading new ideas, even though only a
relatively small number were trained.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
51.   The project was consistent with the Government's development objectives, the
Province's priority to invest in the subsector, and the Bank's country assistance strategy.
In general, the identification of the components and the preparation, appraisal and
supervision of the project were satisfactory, although through hindsight, the following
weaknesses have been noted:
(a)   The economic evaluation omitted the inclusion of justifiable investment
components, such as the cost of land acquisition and resettlement, and
construction supervision. Furthermore, the assumptions made about the
diversion of traffic from the arterial road to the new highway turned out to
be overoptimistic, although the relatively low diversion factor partly
emanates from the tolling of the highway which was not considered at the
time of appraisal. In addition to the higher than estimated cost of
construction, these two factors contributed to the lower than estimated
ERR for the highway.
(b)   The staff training program could have been prepared in greater detail, but
more importantly, during supervision the Bank could have been more alert
to the fact that more training was supposed to be organized in China for
more trainees. This could have reduced the relatively high cost of training
and study tours abroad for a relatively small number of participants.
(c)   The expectation that road data information and pavement management
systems could be established in 15 months, without SPTD's management



- 14 -
and staff having had previous experience in these areas, and considering the
complexity of the study's objectives, was overoptimistic.
52.   During implementation, the Bank's involvement was adequate and commensurate
with the project's size and complexity: On average, there were two Bank missions a year
over the five-year implementation period. The missions' visits of construction sites helped
highlight noticeable deficiencies and alert the executing agencies and supervisors to the
need to exercise more effective quality control. These suggestions were generally well
received by the executing agencies and helped sharpen their focus on some of the
deficiencies noted by the missions.
53.   The Bank showed flexibility in dealing with the design changes, so as to avoid
interrupting and delaying the execution of works. These were pragmatic responses to
problems, which were unforeseen during project preparation. Some of the changes added
to the cost of the project. However, some of these will have beneficial impact on the
operation of the highway, such as controlling access along the full length of the project
highway. The acceptance of constructing only one carriageway of the four-lane highway
between Yaoxian and Chuankou carried the risk of encountering eventual traffic capacity
constraints on this section of the highway. However, such a risk has been greatly reduced
because of the slower than forecast build up of traffic on the highway and the construction
of a second two-lane carriageway under the follow-up Second Shaanxi Provincial
Highway Project by the end of year 2000 (para. 8).
54.   Overall, the project was implemented within the terms of the loan agreement and in
substantial compliance with the Bank's procedural requirements.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
55.   SPTD was exposed to Bank-financed project management in the first Highway
Project. The benefit of that experience could be seen in the way the project was prepared
and administered. Moreover, SPTD, through the implementation of the project, gained
further experience in the organization and management of the construction of high-class
highways, which imposed on the Department an even wider range of coordinating and
managerial tasks. SPTD was able to cope well with the added responsibilities and
demonstrated that it is a well-organized institution with high-caliber technical staff. Its
administrative system reflects good record keeping and comprehensive reporting. The
progress report format developed with the assistance of the Bank was distributed as a
sample to be followed by other provinces involved with similar highway projects. SPTD
also demonstrated its keen interest to improve quality control in the execution of highway
works, and provided strong support to the construction supervision team in the
enforcement of technical specifications and other quality control measures. The Bank's
policies and procedures were well understood by the Department, which helped reduce
excessive delays, and greatly contributed to the timely completion of the project. SPTD's
cooperation and well-prepared documents were also very helpful in preparing this ICR.
56.   Project implementation also benefited from MOC's regular involvement in Bank-
financed highway projects. Following consultation with the Bank, in early 1990, a



- 15 -
Technical Coordination Unit was set up in MOC to liaise with the Bank and the provincial
entities. Such liaison was particularly useful in resolving the major design change issues
on a consensus basis.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
57.   The implementation of the project can be regarded as satisfactory. Some of the
components suffered some implementation delays but within the parameters envisaged at
project appraisal. Consequently, the project highway and the rural roads were opened for
traffic at the end of 1992, and the project as a whole was substantially completed by the
end of 1993, as well reflected at the level of disbursements at that time. The loan was
fully disbursed in late October 1994, ahead of the loan closing date of December 31, 1994.
58.   The contractors' performance on the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway had been
adequate, despite their noticeably limited experience on similar types of high-class
highway civil works. The contractors' unfamiliarity with intemational contract
conditionalities was also apparent. These shortfalls put added responsibility and burden on
the construction supervision team, which stood up well to the challenge. Overall, the
highway was constructed to a satisfactory standard but with less than desirable surface
quality of the pavement on some sections of the highway. Although the implementation of
the Rural Roads program encountered difficulties due to exceptionally heavy rain falls,
lack of equipment and manpower, the program as executed met the expectations with
regard to administration control and technical requirements and the economic viability of
the program.
59.   The project's development objectives (through its highway/road investment
components) were achieved and are considered sustainable. The stream of benefits is
expected to be maintained, although at a somewhat lower level than originally forecast for
the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway. For the Rural Roads program, the reestimated ERR
confirms the expected level of viability of the investments made and highlights the high
priority of investing in areas with economic potential but with poor road infrastructure.
60.   Sectoral development under the project, in the context of the RDB and PMS
programs, was highly successful. It was achieved primarily because of the dedication and
perseverance of the personnel in the provincial highway administration and technical
institutions. Furthermore, the success of the Shaanxi pilot exercise provides incentives
and practical experience in the introduction of these programs to other provinces.
61.   The level of technology transfer was not easy to measure because of a lack of well-
defined baseline parameters. The training program, although at a price, provided a
satisfactory level of exposure to new concepts and incentives for adopting new
approaches.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
62.   Because the Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway narrows to two lanes between Yaoxian
and Chuankou, this section of the highway will be widened to four lanes under the Second



- 16 -
Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project to eliminate a potential bottleneck. Also, the second
project will convert the Xi'an-Sanyuan section of the highway into an access-controlled
highway, which, combined with the extension of the highway from Chuankou to the city
of Huangling (73.6 km), is expected to contribute to a more rapid buildup of through
traffic and a higher rate of traffic diversion to the new highway.
63.   To ensure that the highway is operated efficiently, SPTD prepared an Operations
Manual that can be used as a reference for regularly monitoring key performance
parameters (para. 46). It also provides information about warning signals that will alert
staff of the need for interventions.
64.   SPTD outlined a comprehensive program to expand the RDB and PMS to the
entire Province by 2000 (para. 49). It also created a rational plan for the upkeep of the
RDB; data would be updated as often as needed, based on the way it is used. The
progress made with applying the RDB and PMS in Shaanxi Province seems to justify the
Bank's continued support under future provincial highway projects for such programs.
65.   Similarly, including a poverty alleviation component (RIPA) in the Second Shaanxi
Provincial Highway Project was justified because the small-scale Rural Roads program
under the first highway project was very successful.
L KEY LESSONS LEARNED
66.   These lessons are:
(a)   The major design changes for the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway were
needed to avoid adverse effects to community and industrial development.
This points either to the lack of adequate land use planning at the county
and municipal levels or to poor coordination with local government entities
during the highway alignment location studies, or both. Similar problems,
which were noted during the implementation of other Bank-financed
highway projects, led to substantial cost increases and disrupted the
execution of works. Thus, the issue of appropriate land use planning and
better coordination between local governments and provincial highway
administrations warrants nationwide attention.
(b)   The executing agency could have been more stringent in prequalifying
some highway construction contractors, ensuring they had enough
experience and resources to carry out the works efficiently and
satisfactorily. The lack of firm enforcement of prequalification criteria has
been frequently noted in Chinese highway projects and an issue requiring
national regulations, possibly by creating a classification system for the
highway construction firms based on well-established performance criteria
for constructing high-class highways.
(c)   The Chinese and Bank approaches to costing Bank-financed projects,
particularly civil works components, are substantially different, and the



- 17 -
Bank and MOC should make an effort to agree to common methods. A
standard methodology would produce more reliable and consistent
estimates of ERRs and investment priorities.
(d)   As indicated, the cost of staff training per person-month was high, which
has been also the experience in other Bank-financed highway projects in
China. Thus, it would seem highly desirable for the Bank, Ministry of
Finance and MOC to address the issue as soon as possible, perhaps by
appointing a technical training institution in China to coordinate highway
subsector training programs nationwide.



- 18 -
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial  Partial     Negligible     Not applicable
Macro policies                                                      X
Sector policies                         X
Financial objectives                                                X
Institutional development               X
Physical objectives        X
Poverty reduction                       X
Gender issues                                                       X
Other social objectives                                             X
Environmental objectives                X
Public sector management                X
Private sector development                                          X
Other (specify)                                                     X
B. Project sustainability       Likely                   Unlikely       Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank performance             satisfactorv             Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                       X
Preparation assistance                               X
Appraisal                                            X
Supervision                                          X
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                          X
Implementation                                       X
Covenant compliance                                  X
Operation (if applicable)                            X
Highly                                  Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome       satisfactory  Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
x



- 19 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK GROUP LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/credit title                           Purpose               approval  Status
Preceding operation
1.   Highway Project                        provincial road network  FY85   completed
Ln.2539-CHA/Cr. 1954-CHA               expansion/improvement
Following operations
1.   Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project see footnote /a    FY87      completed
Ln.281 1-CHA/Cr. 1792-CHA
2.   Sichuan Provincial Highway Project     see footnote /a       FY88      ongoing
Ln.2951-CHA/Cr. 1917-CHA
3.   Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project     see footnote /a       FY89      completed
Cr. 1984-CHA
4.   Shandong Provincial Highway Project    see footnote /a       FY89      ongoing
Ln.3073-CHA/Cr.2025-CHA
5.   Jiangsu Provincial Transport Project   see footnote /a       FY91      ongoing
Ln.3316-CHA/Cr.2226-CHA
6.   Zhejiang Provincial Highway Project    see footnote /a       FY92      ongoing
Ln.3471-CHA
7.   Henan Provincial Highway Project       see footnote /a       FY93      ongoing
Ln.3531-CHA
8.   Guangdong Provincial Highway Project   see footnote /a       FY93      ongoing
Ln.3530-CHA
9.   Fujian Provincial Highway Project      see footnote /a       FY94      ongoing
Ln.3681-CHA
10.  Hebei/Henan National Highway Project   see footnote /a       FY94      ongoing
Ln.3748-CHA
11.  Xinjiang Highway Project I             see footnote/a        FY95      ongoing
Ln.3787-CHA
12.  Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway Project     see footnote /a        FY96      ongoing
Ln.3929-CHA
13.  Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project see footnote /a    FY96      ongoing
Ln.3986-CHA
/a  These highway projects, typically, have had the following components: (a) construction of a major
highway; (b) improvement of provincial roads; (c) procurement of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) institutional development components, such as RDB and PMS programs, staff training and
selected subsector oriented studies.



- 20 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                  Date planned     Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  N/A          Jun. 9, 1987
Preparation                             N/A              Jul. 1987
Appraisal                               Feb. 1988         Jan. 1988
Negotiations                            Apr. 1988         Apr. 1988
Board presentation                      Jun. 9, 1988      Jun. 9, 1988
Signing                                 Feb. 27, 1989    Feb. 27, 1989
Effectiveness                           May 31, 1989      May 31, 1989
Project completion                      Dec. 31, 1993     Dec. 31, 1993
(substantially)
Loan closing                            Dec. 31, 1994     Dec. 31, 1994



- 21 -
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ mnillion)
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94          FY95
Appraisal estimate      5.00     15.00    35.00    40.00    45.00    49.00    50.00
Actual                  2.99     11.19    21.87    38.69    45.98    49.55    50.00
Actualas%ofestimate    59.8%    74.6%    62.5%    96.7%    102.2%   101.1%    100.0%
Date of final disbursement  Oct. 28, 1994
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated              Actual
Start    Complete      Start    Complete
1. Highway Construction                    Feb-88   Jan-91        Apr-90  Jun-93
2. Rural Roads                             Jun-88    Jun-90        Feb-88  Dec-92
3. Equipment for Pavement Evaluation       Mar-89   Dec-89         Feb-91   Sep-94
4. Laboratory Equipment for Training School  Mar-89   Apr-90       Nov-91  Nov-94
5. Road Data Bank                          Jun-88   Jul-90         Jan-88   Nov-92
6. Consulting Services                     Feb-89   Dec-90         Jun-88   Dec-92
7. Staff Training                          Nov-88   Dec-90         Jun-90  Apr-94



- 22 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS
Length (kcm)           Traffic (1994 AADT)
Estimated   Actual     Estimated    Actual
1. Sanvuan-Tongchuan Highway
Sanyuan-Yaoxian Section            32.00     31.00       5,698       2,925
Yaoxiao-Chuankou Section           19.00     20.30       7,032       2,718
Chuankou-Houliu Section            14.00     15.10         640       1,522
Total                       65.00     66.40
2. Rural Roads Program
Shangxian-Shagou Road             101.00    100.78           -       1,951
Sehe-Manchuan Road                 73.00     73.00           -       2,082
Shangnan-Yunxi Road               105.50    105.48         341        929
Shangxian-Zhashui Road            129.90    129.85         801       1,007
Pingli-Zhenping Road /a            59.50      -            297           -
Langao-Zhenping Road                -        50.00           -        930
Total                      468.90    459.11
Grand Total                533.90    52551
/a During the project implementation, Pingli-Zhenping road was replaced by the Langao-Zhenping
road.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
A Shaanxi Highway Data Bank Preparation, Pavement Evaluation and
Strengthening Program and Maintenance Management Study was included in the Project
(Terms of Reference, Annex 2 of the SAR).
However, as elaborated in paras. 37-42 of Part I of the ICR, the Study has not
been executed as envisaged, although the objectives of the study have been partially
achieved through the development and application of the RDB and PMS programs by
SPTD with the assistance of MOC. The programs were supported by the Bank through
the acquisition of equipment for road condition survey, land survey and geographic
location, and computer hardware and software for data processing and storage.



- 23 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(Y million)
Appraisal estimate        ActualAatest estimate
Item                           Local  Foreign Total      Local   Foreign Total
Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway       99.56  98.44  198.00     186.37  186.38  372.75
Consultant services for supervision  1.76   1.76    3.52   3.00    3.00    6.00
Rural roads                     82.20  54.80  137.00      73.60   49.07   122.67
Equipment and expertise for RDB  0.00   4.44    4.44       0.00    1.05    1.05
Equipment and expertise for PMS  0.00   1.00    1.00       0.00    2.85    2.85
Equipment for training schools   0.00   3.00    3.00       0.00    6.60    6.60
Staff Training                   0.00   1.48    1.48       0.00    2.50    2.50
Base Cost                183.52 164.92  348.44    262,97  251.45  514.42
Physical contingencies          18.35  16.49   34.84       0.00    0.00    0.00
Price contingencies             22.55  20.29   42.84       0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal                224.42 20170  426.12        0.00    0.00    0.00
Land acquisition cost           34.55   0.00   34.55      67.73    0.00   67.73
Total Project Cost      258 97 201.70  460 67     330.70  251.45  582.15



- 24 -
TABLE SB: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimate
Item                            Local  Foreign Total      Local   Foreign Total
Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway       26.90  26.60   53.50       34.38   34.38   68.76
Consultant services for supervision  0.48   0.48    0.96    0.60    0.60    1.20
Rural roads                      22.23  14.81   37.04      17.08   11.38   28.46
Equipment and expertise for RDB   0.00   1.20    1.20       0.00    0.21    0.21
Equipment and expertise for PMS   0.00   0.28    0.28       0.00    0.57    0.57
Equipment for training schools    0.00   0.82    0.82       0.00    1.32    1.32
Staff Training                   0.00   0.40    0.40        0.00    0.50    0.50
Base Cost                 49.61  44 59   94.20      52 06   48.96   101.02
Physical contingencies            4.96   4.46    9.42       0.00    0.00    0.00
Price contingencies               2.58   2.32    4.90       0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal                   7.54   6.78   14.32      0Q00    0.00
Land acquisition cost             9.34   0.00    9.34      14.66    0.00   14.66
Total Prgect Cos          642  SI2   117.86U        6672   4&896   115.68
TABLE SC: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
Local    Foreign               Local    Foreign
Source                 costs    costs       Total      costs    costs      Total
IBRD/IDA                  0.0     50.0       50.0        0.0      50.0       50.0
Central Government       13.5      0.0       13.5       14.4       0.0       14.4
Provincial Government    53.0      1.3       54.3       51.3       0.0       51.3
TQW               66 S     S1 3       117.8      6S 7                Ii



- 25 -
TABLE 9: EcoNOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(Y million)
Costs /a    Benefits /b  NPV /c   ERR (%)
The ICR
Santuan-HouliuHighway     459.99      32.91       329.00      18.1
Rural roads (5)           159.42      120.07      735.20      41.5
Total               619.41     152.98      1.064.20     27.9
The SAR
Santuan-Houliu Highway    291.30      59.73         n.a.      27.8
Rural roads (3)           246.37      30.06         n.a.   16-25 /d
Total               537.67      89.79         na.        na.
/a July 1995 prices.
/b First year benefits (July 1995 prices).
/c Discount rate = 12%.
/d Between 16% to 25% for the rural roads.
J



- 26 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
AU..-           Covenant           Original  Revised
ment   Section  clss(es)    Status  Date     Date     Dewcription of Covenant                   Comments
Loan   2.02(b)  1           C                         Open Special Account and operate it according
to Schedule 5 of the Development Credit
Agreement
3.01(a)  5          C                         Commitment to project objectives and meeting
obligations by Beneficiary under the Project
Agreement
3.01(b) 3           C                         Satisfactory onlending arrangement to
Beneficiary
3.02    5           C                         Cornpliance with Schedule 4 of the Loan
Agreement
3.03    5           C                         Meeting requirements of the General
Conditions, Sections 9.04-9.09
4.01    1           C                         Maintaining adequate fuiancial recording and
auditing reporting requirement
Project  2.01    5          C                         Commitment to project objectives and meeting
obligations by Beneficiary under the Project
Agreement
2.02    5           CD                        Compliance with Schedule 4 of the Loan    Delays had been
Agreement                                encountered in the
procurement proceas
2.03    5           C                         Meeting requiremnents of the General
Conditions, Sections 9.04 -9.09
2.04(a) 9           C                         Information on interference with project
implementation
2.05    7           C                         Carry out resettlement actions as agreed
Status   C     -  Complied with
CD    -  Compliance after delay
NC    -  Not complied with
SOON  -  Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP    -  Complied with partially
NYD   -  Not yet due
Coveant Clas:
I       Accounts/audit
2   -  Financal performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3       Flow and utilization of Project funds
4   -  Counterpart funding
5       Maagement aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6   -  Environmental covenants
7   -  Involuntary resettlement
S   -  Indigenous people
9       Monitoring., review and reporting
10   -  Implementation
11   -  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12   -  Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13       Other



- 27 -
TABLE 1 1: COMPLIANCE WfTH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
statement (OD or OP/BP):
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
None                                     None
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
FY          1987   1988   1989   1990  1991   1992  1993   1994   1995   1996  Total
Preappraisal   3.5   16.3                                                          19.8
Appraisal           12.8                                                           12.8
Negotiations         7.8                                                            7.8
Supervision                 4.0   10.2   8.1   6.3    4.9    1.6                   35.1
Completion                                                            4.2   16.2  20 4
Tota /a    3.5   36.9   4.0   10.2   8.1   6.3    4.9    1.6   4.2   16.2  95.9
/a As of April 30, 1996.



- 28 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOuRCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Number  Days   Specialized    Implemen-  Develop-
Stage of Project   Month/  of      in     staff skills /a  tation    ment       Types of
Cycle           year      persons  field   represented    status /b    objectives  problems
Identification  06/87    --        --      EN,EC
Preparation     07/87    3         5       PO,EC,FA
Preappraisal     10/87    3        5       EN,EC
Appraisal       01/88    4         5       EN,EC
Negotiation     04/88    6         --      EN,EC,PO
LC,DO,RA
Board approval   06/88    --       -       -
Signing         02/89    --        --      --
Effective       05/89    -         --      --
Supervision 1   03/89    3         5      EN             1           1
Supervision 2    11/89    2        5      EN,TS          2           1
Supervision 3    04/90    1        5      EN             2           1
Supervision 4    10/90    2        5      EN,RA          2           1
Supervision 5   05/91    1         5      EN             2           1          /c
Supervision 6    10/91    1        5      EN             2           1
Supervision 7    05/92    1        5      EN             2           1
Supervision 8    04/93    1        5      EN             2           1
Supervision 9    04/94    1        5      EN             1           1
Supervision 10    09/94    1       5      EN             1           1
Supervision 11    03/94    1       5      RA             1           1
Completion      07/95    2         5      EN,CO          -           -
/a  PO: Project Officer; EN: Engineer; FA: Financial Analyst; EC: Economist; OS: Operations
Specialist; LC: Legal Counsel; CO: Country Officer; DO: Disbursement Officer;
RA: Research Analyst; TS: Training Specialist.
ib  1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory.
L  Typical problems included: design changes, quality deficiency and delays.



- 29 -                      ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Preface
1.   In the Staff Appraisal Report for the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project (Report
No. 7167-CHA) the economic evaluation was presented for the (a) construction of the
Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway, and (b) improvement of three roads included in the Rural
Roads component of the project.
2.    The economic analysis presented in this ICR is based on updated data on traffic,
vehicle operating cost (VOC), economic cost, and road user benefits, taking into account
revised assumptions regarding future traffic growth rates. The methodology used in the
economic analysis for this ICR is similar to that used in the SAR and is summarized in the
following:
(a)   capital investments and maintenance costs have been revised to reflect July
1995 prices and are included in the cost streams;
(b)   the benefit streams presented, also reflect July 1995 prices, and consists of
savings in VOC, reduced traffic congestion on the existing road, and cost
savings on account of accident reductions;
(c)   a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment
period for all roads has been taken from 1989 to 1993; and
(d)   full benefits started to accrue the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway in 1994
and to the rural roads in 1993.
3.    During the implementation of the project, there were some design changes in the
Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway and the Rural Roads program. The impact of these changes
had been taken into consideration in the economic analysis for this ICR.
PART I: SANYUAN-TONGCHUAN HIGHWAY
4.    As in the SAR, the highway was divided into three sections for economic
evaluation:
Section 1    Sanyuan to Yaoxian (31.0 kmi);
Section 2    Yaoxian - Chuankou (20.3 kmn); and
Section 3    Chuankou (Tongchuan South)-Houliu (Tongchuan North)
(15.1 km).



- 30 -                      ANNEX 1
Cost and benefit analyses were carfied out separately for each section as well as the
highway as a whole.
Corridor Traffic
5.    The 1994 corridor traffic and its distribution between the old road and the new
highway is presented in the following table, indicating SAR forecast and actual traffic
census data:
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (AADT) FOR 1994
Diversion
The Old Road  The New Road  Total Corridor  Factor (DF)
(1)           (2)      (3)=(1)+(2)    (4)=(2)/(3)
SAR:
Section 1                  2,442         5,698          8,140         70.0%
Section 2                  1,759         7,032          8,791         80.0%
Section 3                  2,562           640          3,202         20.0%
ACTUAL
Section 1                  4,188         2,925          7,113         41.1%
Section 2                  6,059         2,718          8,777         31.0%
Section 3                  3,361         1,522          4,883         31.2%
(ACTUAL(SARM RATIOS
Section 1                  171.5%         51.3%          87.4%
Section 2                  344.5%         38.7%          99.8%
Section 3                  131.2%        237.8%         152.5%
Sources: Shaanxi Provincial High Class Highway Administration and Bank staff.
6.    As shown above, the 1994 corridor traffic (i.e., the sum of traffic on the parallel
sections of the existing arterial road and the new highway), for other than Section 3 does
not differ significantly from the SAR estimates. However, the expected distribution of
corridor traffic between the existing arterial road and the new highway is substantially
different from that expected at project appraisal, as reflected in the Diversion Factor (DF),
which indicates that a high percentage of the traffic, as of 1994, prefers to travel on the
existing arterial road. The most likely reasons for the less than expected rate of traffic
diversion to the new highway are: (a) at the time of project appraisal the new highway
was not expected to be operated as a toll highway; (b) the existing road paralleling the
highway was widened and improved during 1990-92 resulting in an increase in traffic
capacity; (c) the perceived benefits of using the new highway from the road user's
perspective may not have been adequate to offset the cost of tolling.



-31-                         ANNEX 1
7.    As indicated in the above table, instead of the expected 70-80 percent of corridor
traffic Diversion Factor (DF) to Sections 1 and 2 of the new highway, after more than two
years of the highway's operation, the DF has been only about half (31-41 percent ) of the
forecast DF. Consequently, traffic reached only 51.3 percent and 38.7 percent,
respectively, of the expected level of traffic on these two sections. Regarding Section 3,
the traffic conditions are somewhat different from that of Sections 1 and 2. First of all,
this section was built as a two-lane road, and it is not a toll road. Furthermore, this road
between Chuankou and Houliu functions primarily as a bypass route for Tongchuan City.
After the opening of the new road, most of the truck traffic through the city has been
restricted, and thereby diverted to the new road. Thus, the 1994 traffic on this section of
the highway is significantly higher than SAR's projection.
Traffic Projection
8.    It is recognized that, normally, the buildup of traffic on a new highway, particularly
when it operates as a toll facility, is gradual in the early years and then the diversion
accelerates. Notwithstanding this, the ICR's traffic forecast for the highway is more
conservative than SAR estimates because, even after three years of operation, the DF
remained well below expectations. The main reasons for this are indicated in para. 6, and
there seems to be no obvious reason for expecting a sudden change in the present traffic
pattern. Furthermore, a closer analysis of the traffic pattern has revealed that for other
than long-distance through traffic the highway does not provide travel distance saving,
which, normally, is regarded as an important incentive for diversion even for relatively
short-distance trips. For shorter trips, the new highway does not provide distance savings
because the travel on the access roads to the highway increases the overall travel distance.
9.    The long-term traffic growth rates (1993-2015) for Sections 1 and 2 of the
highway has been estimated at 7.8 and 7.7 percent, respectively, and for Section 3 at 5.8
percent, compared to the SAR's estimate of a uniform growth rate of 9.5 percent for all
three sections. In estimating the growth rate for Section 3 it was taken into consideration
that the two-lane road through hilly terrain will be faced with capacity constraints, and
furthermore, the extension of the four-lane section of the highway from Chuankou to
Huangling, as part of the Bank-financed Second Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, will
be attracting some of the traffic presently using Section 3. The traffic projections by
sections are summarized as follows:



- 32 -                        ANNEX 1
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON FOR THE NEW HIGHWAY (AADT), BY SECTIONS
Section 1        Section 2         Section 3
Sanyuan-Yaoxian   Yaoxian-Chuankou  Chuankou-Houliu (Tongchuan)
SAR   1993                   5,133            6,334                   576
1994                   5,698            7,032                   640
1995                   6,326            7,808                   710
2000                  10,707           13,222                 1,204
2010                  24,817           30,614                 2,787
2015                  37,939           46,761                 4,257
Average growth p.a.       9.5%             9.5%                   9.5%
1993-2015
ICR   1993                   2,805            2,544                  3,621
1994                   2,925            2,718                 1,522
1995                   4,180            3,681                 2,451
2000                   6,142            5,409                 3,974
2010                  11,527           10,151                 8,921
2015                  14,711           12,956                12,512
Average growth p.a.       7.8%             7.7%                   5.8%
1993-2015
10.   The projected traffic for the three sections of the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway for
years 1993-2015 is detailed in Table 1 of this Annex. For 1993 and 1994, actual traffic
data have been used. Traffic projections for 1995 are based on the actual traffic data for
the first six months of the year. For the subsequent years the following traffic growth
rates have been assumed:
(a)    For Section 1 of the existing arterial road and Section 1 and 2 of the new
highway normal traffic growth forecast is estimated to increase by
8 percent per year between 1995-2000, with the growth rate reduced by
1 percent for each of the five years thereafter to 5 percent in 2015.
(b)    For Section 2 and Section 3 of the existing arterial road, considering the
future planning of other alternative routes in this area, the growth rate is
estimated to be 2 percent lower than that for the new highway; 6 percent
per year between 1995-2000, and reducing to 2 percent by 2015.
(c)    The generated traffic in the ICR was assumed to be 10 percent of normal
traffic.
In the SAR, by comparison, for normal traffic a single growth rate of 9.5 percent per year
was applied to all three sections of the highway, and the generated traffic growth rate was
assumed to be between 10 and 20 percent of the normal traffic.



- 33 -                     ANNEX 1
Economic Costs
11.   Following the pattern of the SAR, the economic cost reflects the financial cost of
civil works according to the final cost of the civil works contracts (Table 2). Financial
costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing for each of the three
sections of the highway as shown in Table 3. The overall effect of the difference in the
shadow pricing of the financial costs in the SAR and ICR, and the higher than SAR
estimate of the financial cost is that the total economic cost of the highway, according to
ICR estimates, is about 58 percent higher than the SAR estimates, at constant July 1995
prices.
ECONOMIC COST COMPARISON
(Yuan million)
SAR                ICR         ICR/SAR
Jan 1988      Jul 1995      Jul 1995        in%
Sanyuan-Yaoxian         121.0         163.2         207.6          +27.2%
Yaoxian-Chuankou         65.0          87.7          181.4        +107.0%
Chuankou-Houliu          30.8          40.4          71.0          +75.4%
Total                216.8         291.3          460.0         +57.9%
Economic Benefits
12.   The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from (a) VOC savings on the
new highway for normal and generated traffic, (b) relieved congestion on the existing
road, and (c) savings in accident cost. The updated VOC per km for the various types of
vehicles is presenterl in Table 4.
13.   It was conservatively assumed that about 30 to 40 percent of traffic from the
existing arterial road would divert to the new highway. It was assumed that less traffic
would reduce congestion on the existing road, resulting in 15 percent savings of the VOC
applied for the existing arterial road between 1993 and 1995. Thereafter, because of the
gradual buildup of traffic on the existing arterial road, the savings would be reduced by 1
percent for each of the remaining five year periods to 11 percent by 2015.
14.   In 1985, there were, on the average, seven accidents per km per year on the
existing road. After the opening of the new highway for traffic, despite the higher traffic
volume, the number of accidents in 1994 was lower; 5.2 per km per year. On the new
highway, the number of accidents in 1994 was 2.9 per km per year. For estimating road
accident cost savings, it was assumed that the reduction in the number of accidents,



-34 -                           ANNEX I
resulting from the construction of the highway, would be two accidents per km per year at
a cost of Y 10,000 for each accident.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
15.    Total costs and benefits streams, Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present
Value (NPV), for the highway are presented in Table 5A, and for the three individual
sections of the highway in Tables 5B-5D. The overall ERR on the highway investment is
estimated at 18.1 percent versus the SAR estimate of 27.8 percent. Sensitivity Analysis
and comparative SAR figures are presented in the following table.
Section I     Section 2      Section 3
Sanyuan-      Yaoxian-       Chuankou-      Total
Yaoxian       Chuankou       Houliu         Highway
ICR:
Best estimate of rate of return      19.7%          16.7%          16.8%          18.1%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)           191.7           95.0          42.3          329.0
20% increase in costs and best
estimate of benefits               17.5%          14.8%          15.0%         16.1%
NPV (120/o, million Yuan)         154.8           62.8          29.6          247.1
20% decrease in benefits and
best estimate of costs             17.1%          14.4%          14.6%          15.7%
NPV(12%, millionYuan)             116.4           43.8          21.1          181.3
20% increase in costs and 20%
decrease in benefits               15.1%          12.6%          12.9%         13.8%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)            79.5           11.5           8.4           99.4
SAR:
Best estimate of rate of return      28.1%          30.0%          20.6%          27.8%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)             n.a.           n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
20% increase in costs and best
estimate of benefits               25.5%          27.3%          18.5%         25.2%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)             n.a.           n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
20% decrease in benefits and
best estimate of costs             24.9%          26.7%          18.0%         24.7%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)             n.a.           n.a.          n.a.           n.a.
20% increase in costs and 20%
decrease in benefits (%)           22.6%         24.3%           16.0%         22.4%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)               n.a.           n.a.           n.a.          n.a.
Evaluation of Improvement to the Existing Arterial Road
16.    Coinciding with the implementation of the Bank-financed highway project, the
Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department carried out the widening and pavement
improvement of the existing arterial road, paralleling the new highway, by using domestic
funds. During years 1992-94 a total of Y 12.7 million was invested for such
improvements. It is assumed that the improvements made to the condition and capacity of



-35-                        ANNEX1
the existing arterial road was one of the reasons for the less than expected traffic diversion
to the new highway. Based on the data provided by SPTD, the improvement of the
existing arterial road was estimated to yield an ERR of 76.8 percent. The cost of
improvement has been Y 6.5 million per km, which can be regarded as a marginal
investment for a relatively high ERR. The combined ERR for this highway corridor, i.e.,
the Bank-financed new highway, and the locally financed improvement of the existing
arterial road is estimated at 19.5 percent.
PART II: RURAL ROADS COMPONENT
Background and Traffic
17.   The original Rural Roads program included the upgrading of three roads and to
repair two flood-damaged roads in the mountainous prefectures of Shanglou and Ankang,
both are located adjacent in the southern part of the Province adjacent to each other.
These two prefectures are classified by the State as some of the poorest areas in China.
During project implementation, one of the proposed road (Pingli-Zhenping--60 km) in
Ankang prefecture was replaced by a new road for inclusion in the Rural Roads program
(Langao-Zhenping-50 km), a missing link in the prefecture's road network.
18.   Since all the five roads included in the Rural Roads program are located in the
same mountainous area, the local economic development and traffic patterns are quite
similar. Based on the actual traffic data, the following assumptions have been made in the
economic analyses regarding future traffic growth: a 7 percent per year traffic increase in
1995, reduced by 1.5 percent for each of the next five years, and thereafter by 1.0 percent
until year 2012. In the SAR, the average growth rate was estimated as 8 percent per year
between 1989 and 2006).
Economic Costs and Benefits
19.   Costs and benefits have been converted to July 1995 economic costs. Financial
costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow pricing, using a factor of 0.97,
which was the overall conversion factor used for the highway component. The overall
effect of the shadow-pricing on the financial cost of the five rural roads at July 1995 prices
has been that the economic cost became about 30.0 percent higher than the financial costs
(Table 2).
20.   The benefits have been derived from (a) VOC savings (i) for normal traffic due to
shorter distance and/or road condition improvement, and (ii) for generated traffic; (b) time
savings on freight and passenger transport; and (c) savings in accident cost.
21.   Without the project, all five roads would have remained either class IV or
substandard roads. With the project, all five roads had been upgraded to Class III roads.
The better pavement of the road surface would reduce VOC, which yielded the major
portion of the project benefits. Generated traffic was assumed to be 5 percent of the
normal traffic. In the SAR, it was 15 percent.



- 36 -                      ANNEX 1
22.   The better pavement of the road would increase vehicle speed and improve the
turnaround time for freight and passenger transport. The benefits to freight transport
(assumed at Y 2.0/hour/vehicle) and passenger transport (assumed at Y 1.0/hour/
passenger) were calculated on that basis.
23.   It was estimated that the accident reduction on the improved roads would be one
accident per four km per year at a cost saving of Y 3,500 per accident.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
24.   The economic evaluation of the five roads is presented in Tables 6a-6e indicating
the stream of costs and benefits for years between 1990 and 2012, pertinent VOC data,
and the characteristics of the roads. The Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) for the five
rural roads are ranging from 21.1 to 99.2 percent. The overall ERR for the five roads is
41.5 percent. The detail calculation of the ERRs are summarized as follows:
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ON THE FIvE RURAL ROADS
Name of roads                        ERR          NPV /a        Main Purpose
1. Shangxian-Shagao (Shangsha) Road  41.9%        105.8    (for flood repairs)
2. Sehe-Manchuan (Seman) Road       27.0%          65.7    (for flood repairs)
3. Shangnan-Yunxi (Shangyun) Road   24.5%          46.2    (for improvement)
4. Shangxian-Zhashui (Shangzha) Road    21.1%      40.2    (for improvement)
5. Langao-Zhenping (Lanzhen) Road   99.2%         477.3    (for missing link)
Total Rural Roads              41.5%         735.2
/a Y million, July 1995 prices, 12 percent discount rate.
25.   Table 7 of this Annex summarizes key data for the roads included in the Rural
Roads program, estimated and final cost of construction, traffic volumes and the estimates
for ERRs. The table also compares the SAR and ICR sets of figures. Total length of
construction in the ICR was 459 km or about 10 km shorter then the SAR's plan (469 kmn)
due to the new Langao-Zhenping road being about 10 km shorter than the road it has
replaced in the program. The final construction costs of the Rural Roads program, has
been about 35.5 percent lower than the SAR's estimate. The latest available data (1994)
show that, in aggregate, the actual traffic volumes (AADT) were higher than SAR's
forecast.
26.   The majority of the Rural Roads component show robust economic returns
indicating the high priority of the investments made, particularly for the construction of
the missing link and the repair of the flood damaged roads. This seems to indicate that
marginal capital investments in road improvements in economically depressed regions
could lead to high, quantifiable economic benefits.



- 37 -                     ANNEX 1
PART m: THE OVERALL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETuRN AND THE PROJECT RISKS
Overall Economic Rate of Return
27.   The overall economic rate of return on the Sanyuan Tongchuan Highway
component and the five Rural Roads component) is 27.9 percent and the NPV (at 12
percent) is Y 1,064.2. In the SAR, an overall ERR for these components, was not
presented.
SAR            ICR
Best estimate of rate of return (%)                 27.8/a         27.9
NPV (12%, million Yuan, July 1995 prices)            n.a.        1,064.2
/a 27.8% for the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway and 16% to 25% for the rural roads.



Table 1: Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway Traffic Summary
(AADT)
Width(m)/_a                  No ofof lanes                        Gradent,(%)/_b                            Road class                             Road condition                     Avg. speed (kn./how)
_ , _ _ . _ _ _ . _ .........~~~~~~~~~~~~..........                                      . ... ,____._...   - ---  -. ---   - --- . .... _....  __...  ..... ..  
I   II        Ii            I         II       II          I         Ii        II                   I         II        ll                 I         II        III                       I         II      illl
Theoldroad:         a       6 5      l1S       110         2         2         2           F         M         M                   11/111    It       It                  Fair      Fair      Fair                     40        43        25
b       75       12.0      120                                        to 809/.  to 3.0%%   t 3/              (Paved)  (Paved)  (Paved)
Thenewsroad         a      230       11.0       70         4         2         2           F         M         M                   Expressw I         11                  Good    Good        Good                    100        80        40
b      250       120      120                                         to39%/   to35%   to 7%                  (Paved)  (Paved)  (Paved)
-  ----Small Car ----        ---Medium  Hus-----                 Smaw Truck--           --Mediwn Truck------           ----- Large Truck------          Tractor-Trailer--         --- -To -----------
Road       Withouit                      Without                      Witout                        Without                      Without                      Without                       Wtthout
kngth (bn)      project     With Project     project      With Project     project      With Project     project     With Project     project      With Project    project      With Project     project      With Project
Old      New       Old      New        Old       Old      New       Old       Old       New       Old       Old      New        Old      Old      New        Old       Old      New       Old       Old       New       Old
roud     road      road      ro d      road     road      road      road      road      road      road     road      road      road      road      road      road     road      road      road      road      road      road
Section I:  Shanyuan-Yaoxao
1993     37.10     31.00      946       490       456     1,993      447      1,546      597       295       302     2,637     1,201     1,436      348       187       161      316       185       131     6,837     2,805     4,032
1994                          906       428       478     2,168      588      1,580      601       284       317     2,857     1,350     1,501      321       152       169      260       123       137     7,113     2925      4,188
1995                         13124      612       512     2,314      840      1,474      745       406       339     3,542     1,929     1,613      398       217       181      323       176       147     2,446     4.180     4,266
2000                         1.651      899       752     3,400     1,234     2,166     1,095      597       49      5,204     2,834     2,370      585       319       266       475      259       216    12,410     6,142     6,268               1
2005                         2,316    1,261     1,055     4,769     1,731     3,038     1,535      837       698     7299      3,975     3,324      820       447       373       666      363       303    17,405     8,614     8,791
2010                         3,100     1,688    1,412     6,322     2,316     4,066     2,054     1,120      934     9,767     5,319     4,448     1097       598       499       891      486       405    23,291    11,527    11,764
2015                         3.956    2,154     1.802     2,145     2.956     5,189     2,621     1,429     1,192    12,466    6,789     5,677     1,400      763       637     1,137      620       517    29725    14.711    15,014               C
Accea Road          2 60
Section II Yaoxiao-Chuankou
1993     2060      2030       181        92        89     4450       406      4,044     1,054      536       518     2,274     1,156     1,118      368       187       181       328      167       161     8655      2,544     6,111
1994                          192        99        93     4,304      413      3,891     1,121      57'       543     2,419     1'246     1,173      392       202       190       349       180      169      8,777     2,712    6,059
1995                          219       119       10O     5,056      905      4,151     1,277      696       581     2,756     1,501     1,255      446       243       203       398      217       181    10,152     3,681     6,471
2000                          303       175       128     6,628     1,330     5,298     1,765     1,023      742     3,807     2,205     1,602      616       357       259       550       319      231    13,669      5,409     8,260
2005                          401       245       156     8,311     1,865     6,446     2,338     1,435      903     5,042     3,093     1,949      816       SOL       315       722       447      281    17,636      7,586    10,050
2010                          509       328       181     9,969     2,496     7,473     2,967     1,920     1,047    6,398     4,139     2,259     1,035      670       365       924       598      326    21,8032    10,151    11,631
2015                          619       419       200    11.437     3,186     8,251     3,606     2,450     1,156    7m7       5,283     2,494     1,25t      855       403     1,123       763       360    25,820    12,956    12,864
Acces Road           3.30
Section III: Chuauikou-Houiu (Tongchuan)
1993     B338      15 10      286       198        82      927       438       489       356       246       110     2,295     1,589      706       999       692       307       661       458      203      5,524     3,621     1,903
1994                          246        83       163      917       183       734       308       104       204     1,979      668      1,311      262       291       571       571       193      378      4,883     1,522    3,361
3995                          268       134       134     1,328      297      1,091      334       167       167     2,152     1,075     1,077      937       462       469       621       310      311      5,700    21451      3,249
2000                          395       216       179     1,938       472     1.460      492       269       223     3.172     l'731     1,441     1,382      754       628       915       499       416     8,294     3'947     4.347
2005                          560       332       228     2,596       735     1,863      699       414       285     4.502     2,663     1,839     1,962     1,160      802     1,299       768       531    11,620     6,072     5,542
2010                          765       488       277     3,347    1I080      2,267      955       608       347     6,150     3,913     2,237     2,680     1,704      976     1,774     1,128      646    15,671      8,921     6,750
2015                         1,005      684       321     4,143     1,315     2,628     1,255      853       402     8,081     5,422     2,593     3,521     2,390     1,131    2,331     1,582       749    20,336    12,512     7,824
Acces Road          0 00
Total   A       71.50    66 40
1 c   B.     7150      72 30
/_&  a. Road pavement;         b Roadbed.
/lb  F FLat          H H61y,             M: Mountainous,
/ c: A: without the access roads; B with the access roads. 
_d:  Al the figurs re rounded                                                                                                                                                                                                                              _



- 39 -                                     ANNEX I
TABLE 2: ECONOMIC COST SUMMARY
(Y million, July 1995 prices)
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993                Total
A. Financial:
Main Highway /_a
Sanyuan-Yaoxian                           0.00   13.61   58.01   68.03   27.02         166.67
Yaoxian-Chuankou                          0.00   11.41   51.20   61.10   24.33         148.04
Chuankou-Houliu (Tongchuan)               0.00    8.18   18.04   22.30    9.19          57.71
Subtotal                                  0.00   33.20  127.25  151.43   60.54         37Z75
Rural Roads
1. Shangxian-Shagao Road                 11.04    1.26    0.53    2.62    0.00          15.45
2. Sehe-Manchuan Road                    18.88    2.47    1.44    3.39    0.00          26.18
3. Shangnan-Yuxi Road                    15.98    1.66    2.07    3.08    0.00          22.79
4. Shangxian-Zhashui Road                20.06    2.98    6.51    3.95    0.00          33.50
5. Langao-Zhenping Road                   0.00   10.45    7.44    6.86    0.00          24.75
Subtotal                                 0j   ]8        17.99   19.90    0.00         122.67
Grand Total                              65.96   52.02  145.24  171.33   60.54         495.42
B. Economic:
Main Highway /_a
Sanyuan-Yaoxian                           0.00   18.48   74.50   83.99   30.64         207.61
Yaoxian-Chuankou                          0.00   15.25   64.73   74.27   27.17         181.42
Chuankou-Houliu (Tongchuan)               0.00   10.91   22.76   27.04   10.24          70.95
Subtotal                                 Q0Q0   44.64  161.99  185.30   68.05          459.98
Rural Roads
1. Shangxian-Shagao Road                 15.03    1.62    0.66    3.07    0.00          20.38
2. Sche-Manchuan Road                    25.69    3.17    1.78    3.97    0.00          34.61
3. Shangnan-Yuxi Road                    21.75    2.14    2.55    3.61    0.00          30.05
4. Shangxian-Zhashui Road                27.29    3.82    8.03    4.62    0.00          43.76
5. Langao-Zhenping Road                   0.00   13.41    9.18    8.03    0.00          30.62
Subtotal                                 87    241    22z20   23 30  0|0               159.42
Grand Total                              89.76   68.80  184.19  208.60   68.05         619.40
/-a: Final cost of civil works contracts.
/b: All the figurcs arc roundcd.



Table 3: Shadow Price Calculation
(Y million, July 1995 prices)
Sanyuan-Yaoxian                  Yaoxian-Chuankou         Chuankou-Houliu (Tongchuan)
Conver                                                                                                        Total
-sion         Financial         Shadow        -Financial---       Shadow         Financial          Shadow  project
factor     Local  Foreign    Total   Priced    Local  Foreign    Total   Priced    Local  Foreign    Total   Priced
Land                        0.80    11.07    0.00    11.07    8.86    9.35    0.00    9.35    7.48    3.21      0.00    3.21     2.57
Labor:
Unskilled                  0.54     1.90    0.00     1.90    1.03    2.68    0.00    2.68      1.45    2.10    0.00    2.10      1.13
Semi skilled/Technician    0.80    4.53    0.00    4.53      3.62    6.51     0.00    6.51     5.21    3.45    0.00    3.45    2.76
Supervisor                 2.00     1.31    1.66    2.97    4.30      0.92    1.46    2.38    3.32    0.39    0.40    0.79       1.18
Materials:
Steel                      1.00   14.91   23.21    38.12    38.39    13.70   21.92   35.62    35.87    7.39    6.18    13.57   13.64
Timber                     1.00    1.01     1.56    2.57     2.59    0.92     1.46    2.38    2.40    0.85    0.71      1.56    1.57
Cement                     1.00    6.11     9.50    15.61    15.72    5.75    9.19    14.94    15.05    3.98    3.32    7.30    7.34
Sand                       0.80    3.05    0.00    3.05      2.44    4.26    0.00    4.26    3.41      2.62    0.00    2.62     2.10
Stone                      0.80    4.03    0.00    4.03      3.22    4.44    0.00    4.44    3.55    2.35    0.00    2.35       1.S8
Bilumen                    1.00    7.52    11.68    19.20    19.34    4.75    7.61    12.36    12.45    1.20    1.01    2.21    2.22
Othen                      0.80     1.34    2.12    3.46     3.22    1.20    1.91    3.11     2.89    0.60    0.52      1.12    1.01
Fuel:
Diesel                     1.00    5.83    0.00    5.83      5.83    3.24    0.00    3.24    3.24    0.28    0.00    0.28    0.28
Gasoline                   1.00     1.21    0.00    1.21     1.21    0.57    0.00    0.57    0.57    0.24    0.00    0.24    0.24
Heavy oil                  1.00    0.09    0.00    0.09      0.09    0.07    0.00    0.07    0.07    0.06    0.00    0.06    0.06
Othes                      1.00    0.25    0.00    0.25      0.25    0.21     0.00    0.21    0.21     0.04    0.00    0.04    0.04
Water                       0.80     0.28    0.00    0.28     0.22     0.23    0.00    0.23    0.18     0.03    0.00    0.03    0.02
Electricity                 2.00     1.33    0.00     1.33    2.66     0.75    0.00    0.75     1.50    0.47    0.00    0.47    0.94
Construction                0.80    3.11     0.00    3.11     2.49     1.67    0.00     1.67    1.34    0.69    0.00    0.69    0.55
Meehanical equipment        1.00    14.61    32.40   47.01    47.39    13.87   28.45   42.32   42.65    7.31     7.92    15.23    15.32
Others                      0.80     1.05    0.00     1.05    0.84    0.95     0.00    0.95    0.76    0.39    0.00    0.39    0.31
84.54   82.13   166.67   163.71    76.04    72.00   148.04   143.60   37.65    20.06   57.71    55.16
Overall conversion factor                                     0.98                              0.97                              0.96    0.97
/_a: All the figures are rounded.



-41-                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 4: ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
BY TYPE OF VEHICLE AND ROAD TYPE
(Y per km, July 1995 prices)
------Good------  -------Fair-------      -    ---Poor------------
Flat                   Flat                   Flat
roll  Hill  Mount.   roll  Hlill  Mount.   roll  Hill  Mount.
A. Paved road:
Small car             0.46    0.48    0.50    0.52    0.54    0.56    0.67    0.69    0.71
Samll bus              0.88    1.05    1.18    1.01    1.18    1.31    1.29    1.44    1.58
MediumBus              1.18    1.36    1.53    1.39    1.59    1.75    1.83    2.01    2.17
Large bus              1.47    1.79    2.07    1.63    1.97   2.25    1.98    2.31    2.59
Small truck           0.66    0.83    0.96    0.75    0.92    1.04    0.92    1.06    1.20
Medium truck           0.70    0.86    1.03    0.78    0.96    1.12    0.94    1.12    1.30
Largetruck             0.92    1.13    1.33    1.02    1.24    1.44    1.21    1.44    1.65
Tractor/trailer        1.74    2.29    2.76    1.89    2.45    2.93    2.24    2.78    3.28
B. Unpaved road:
Small car             0.62    0.65    0.67    0.82    0 85    0.86    1.12    1.14    1.16
Samil bus              1.22    1.44    1.57    1.48    1.69    1.81    1.87    2,03    2.16
MediumBus              1.73    1.96    2.14    2.13    2.35    2.49    2.71    2.89    3.04
Large bus              1.93    2.31    2.57    2 23    2.60    2.88    2.89    3.07    3.34
Small truck           0.86    1.06    1.21    1.02    1.21    1.35    1.25    1.43    1.57
Medium truck           0.90    1 10    1.68    1.04    1 26    1.90    1.26    1.48    2.24
Large truck            0.93    1.16    1.71    1 30    1.60    1.95    1.53    1.84    2.40
Tractor/trailer        1.88    2.40    2.84    2.02    2.55    3.02    2.31    2.86    3.31
Notc: Without the project, both road conditiorn and flow will d etriorate quickly due to higher traffic and heavier vehicles.
Considered 2% p.a. cost increase.



- 42 -                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 5A: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS (TOTAL HIGHWAY)
(Y million, July 1995 prices)
Base Case                                        -nScnsitiviy Analysis- 
Case I   Case 2   Case 3   Case 4
Costs                               --B encfits-----
VOC             Reduced                                Gener-              Total     Cost
Net t_b               Net   Gener- Cong.Cin  Reduced                Net      ated     Total  Benefits  (+20%)
Constru   Road                Sav-      ated    Exist.   Accid-              Cash   Traffic     Cost            Benefits
Year          -ctjon    Mlaint.    Total    ings   Traffic    Road      ents    Total    Flow   t-50%)  (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%)
Total Shanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
1990          44.64              44.64                                                   (44.64)  (44.64)  (53.57)  (44.64)  (53.57)
1991          161.99            161.99                                                   (162.0)  (162.0)  (194.4)  (162.0)  (194.4)
1992          185.30            185.30                                                  (185.3)   (185.3)   (222.4)  (185.3)  (222.4)
1993          68.06    11.50    79.56       5.66     0.29    25.52      1.44    32.91   (46.65)  (46.80)  (62.56)  (53.23)  (69.14)
1994                    11.50    11.50    11.25      0.55    27.36      1.44    40.60    29.10    28.84     26.80    20.98     18.67
1995                    11.50    11.50    20.85      1.02    28.32      1.44    51.63    40.13     39.63    37.83    29.80    27.50
1996                    11.50    11.50    26.52      1.29    29.66      1.44    58.91    47.41     46.77    45.11    35.62    33.33
1997                    11.50    11.50    33.99      1.66    31.07      1.44    68.16    56.66     55.84    54.36    43.03    40.73
1998                    11.50    11.50    43.93      2.15    32.55      1.44    80.07    68.57    67.50    66.27      52.56    50.25
1999                    11.50    11.50    57.28      2.82    34.11      1.44    95.65    84.15     82.75    81.85    65.02    62.71
2000                    11.50    11.50    7544       3.77    35.77      1.44   116.42   104.92    103.04    102.62    81.64    79.34
2001                    11.50    11.50    R8.73      4.44    37.11      1.44   131.72   120.22    118.01    117.92    93.88    91.58
2002                    11.50    11.50   104.40      5.22    38.51      1.44   149.57    138.07    135.47    135.77   108.16   105.86
2003 /_a                17.25     17.25   122.S8     6.15    39.97      1.44   170.44   153.19    150.13    149.74    119.10   115.65
2004 / a                17.25    17.25    144.66     7.25    41.49      1.44   194.84   177.59   173.97   174.14   138.62   135.17
2005                    11.50    11.50   170.37      8.54    43.06      1.44   223.41    211.91    207.64   209.61    167.23   164.93
2006                    11.50    11.50   193.02      9.67    44.24      1.44   248.37   236.87   232.04   234.57   187.20   184.90
2007                    11.50     11.50   218.69    10.95    45.46      1.44   276.54   265.04   259.58   262.74   209.74   207.43
2008                    11.50    11.50   247.78     12.40    46.71      1.44   308.33   296.83   290.63    294.53   235.16   232.86
2009                    11.50     11.50   280.76    14.05    48.01      1.44   344.26   332.76   325.74   330.46   263.90   261.61
2010                    11.50     11.50   318.12    15.92    49.35      1.44   384.83   373.33   365.38   371.03   296.36   294.06
2011                    11.50    11.50   352.04     17.62    50.19      1.44   421.29   409.79   400.99   407.49   325.53   323.23
2012                    11.50     11.50   389.58    19.50    51.05      1.44   461.57   4S0.07   440.33   447.77   357.76   3SS.45
2013                    11.50    11.50   431.14    21.58    51.94       1.44   506.10   494.60   483.82   492.30   393.38   391.08
2014                    11.50     11.50   477.15    23.88    52.85      1.44   555.32   543.82   531.89   541.52   432.75   430.46
2015                    11.50    11.50   528.10    26.42    53.77       1.44   609.73   598.23    585.03    595.93   476.28   473.99
Total   459.99                    EIRR                                              18.1%    17.9%    16.1%    15.7%    13.S%
NPV (12%) =                                      329.0    316.2    247.1    181.3       99.4
First Year Rctum                                  6.0%
/_a: Major resurfacing.
!'b: All figures are rounded.



- 43 -                                        ANNEX I
TABLE 5B: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS (SECTION 1)
(Y million, July 1995 prices)
Base Case                                         ----;- Sensitivity Analysis -
CaselI   Case 2    Case 3    Case 4
Cost                 --------- --------------   ---------
-       ------------- -  OC          Reduced                                  Gener-               Total     Cost
Nct /_b               Net   Gencr- Cong.On  Reduced                    Net      ated     Total  Benefits  (+20%)
Constru   Road                  Sav-     atcd     ExiSL    Accid-               Cash    Traffic     Cost            Benefits
Year           -ction   NMaint.    *'otal    ings   Traffic     Road       ents    Total     Flow   (-50%)  ('20%)   (-20%)   (-20%)
Section 1:   Shanyuan-Yaoxiao
1990           18.48              18.48                                                     (18.4S)   (1.48)  (22.18)   (1.48)   (22.18)
1991           74.50              74.50                                                      (74.5)    (74.5)    (89.4)    (74.5)    (89.4)
1992           83.99              83.99                                                      (84.0)    (84.0)  (100.8)    (84.0)   (100.8)
1993           30.64      5.19    35.83      7.59      0.38      9.63     0.67     18.27    (17.56)  (17.75)  (24.73)   (21.21)  (28.38)
1994                      5.19      5.19     9.97      0.49      9.96     0.67     21.09     15.90     15.66    14.86     11.68     10.64
1995                      5.19      5.19    16.12      0.81      9.95     0.67     27.55     22.36    21.96    21.32      16.85     15.81
1996                      5.19      5.19    19.56      0.98     10.59     0.67     31.80     26.61    26.12     25.57     20.25     19.21
1997                      5.19      5.19    23.73      1.19     11.28     0.67     36.87     31.68    31.09     30.64     24.31     23.27
1998                      5.19      5.19    28.79      1.44     12.01     0.67     42.91     37.72    37.00     36.68     29.14     28.10
1999                      5.19      5.19    34.93      1.75     12.79     0.67     50.14     44.95    44.08     43.91     34.92     33.S8
2000                      5.19      5.19    42.40      2.12     13.62      0.67    58.81     53.62     52.56    52.58     41.86     40.82
2001                      5.19      5 19    49.12      2.46     14.36      0.67    66.61     61.42     60.19    60.38     48.10     47.06
2002                      5 19      5.19    56.91      2.85     15.14     0.67     75.57     70.38    68.96     69.34     55.27     54.23
2003 '                    7.79      7 79    65.93      3.30     15.97      0.67    85.87     78.09     76.44    76.53     60.91     59.35
2004   a                  7.79      7.79    76 38      3.83     16.84     0.67     97.72     89.94     88.02    88.38     70.39     68.a3
2005                      5.19      5 1'    88 48      4.44     17.76     0.67    111.35    106.16    103.94    105.12    83.89     82.85
2006                      5.19      5.19    99.76      5.00     18.53     0.67    123.96    118.77    116.27    117.73    93.98     92.94
2007                      5.19      5.19    112.48     5.63     19.33      0.67    138.11    132.92    130.11    131.88    105.30    104.26
2008                      5.19      5. 1    126.82     6.34     20.16     0.67    153.99    148.80    145.63    147.76    118.00    116.96
2009                      5 19      5.19    142.99     7.14     21.03      067    171.83    166.64    163.07    165.60    132.27    131.24
2010                      5.19      5.19   161.22      8.06     21.94      0.67    191.89    186.70    182.67    185.66    148.32    147.28
2011                      5.19      5 19   178.22      8.91     22.64      0.67   210.44   205.25    200.80   204.21    163.16    162.12
2012                      5.19      5.19    197 01     9 85     23.36      0.67   230.89    225.70   220.78    224.66    179.52    178.48
2013                      5.19      5 19   217.78     10.89     24.11      0.67    253.45    248.26   242.82    247.22    197.57    196.53
2014                      5.19      5.I    240.74     12.04     24.88     0.67    278.33    273.14   267.12    272.10   217.47    216.44
2015                      5.19      5.1'   266.13     13.31     25.67      0 67   305.78    300.59   293.94    299.55   239.43    238.40
Total         207.61                     EIRR =                                              19.7%    19.5%     17.5%     17.1%    15.1%
NPV (; 2%.)                                         191.7    184.6    154.8    116.4       79.5
First Ycar Return                                   7.4%
a: Mtajor resurfacing.
b: Net of the maintance savings on the proposed expresswiy and the euisting ro3d.
c: All figures are rounded.



- 44 -                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE 5c: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS (SECTION 2)
(Y million, July 1995 prices)
Base Case                                               Scnsitivity Analysis
Case I   Case 2   Case 3   Case 4
Costs                                  Benefits                                        -       --       --
VOC            Reduced                                Gener-               Total    Coat
Net.'_b               Net   Gener- Cong.On  Reduced                  Net      ated    Total  BenefiLs  (+20%)
Conatru   Road                 Sav-     ated    Exist.   Accid-              Cash   Traffic     Cost            Benefits
Year          -ction    MainL     Total     ings   Traffic    Road      ents    Total    Flow   (-50%)  (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%)
Section 2:   Yaoxiao-Chuankou
1990          15.25              15.25                                                  (15.25)  (15.25)  (18.30)  (15.25)  (1.30)
1991          64.73              64.73                                                   (64.73)  (64.73)  (77.68)  (64.73)  (77.68)
1992          74.27              74.27                                                   (74.27)   (74.3)   (89.1)   (74.3)   (89.1)
1993          27.17      4.54    31.71     (I.59)   (0.08)   13.50      0.47    12.30   (19.41)  (19.37)  (25.75)  (21.87)  (28.21)
1994                     4.54     4.54      0.63     0.03    13.26      0.47    14.39      9.85     9.84     8.94      6.97     6.06
1995                     4.54     4.54      3.03     0.14    14.15      0.47    17.79    13.25    13.18    12.34       9.69     8.78
1996                     4.54     4.54      4.55     0.21    14.65      0.47    19.88     15.34    15.24    14.43    11.36    10.46
1997                     4.54     4.54      6.84     0.32    15.17      0.47    22.80    18.26    18.10    17.35    13.70    12.79
1998                     4.54     4.54     10.28     0.49    15.71      0.47    26.95    22.41    22.17    21.50    17.02    16.11
1999                     4.54     4.54     15.45     0.75    16.27      0.47    32.94    28.40    28.03    27.49    21.81    20.90
2000                     4.54     4.54    23.23      1.16    16.86      0.47    41.72    37.18    36.60    36.27    28.84    27.93
2001                     4.54     4.54    27.78      1.39    17.28      0.47    46.92    42.38    41.69    41.47    33.00    32.09
2002                     4.54     4.54    33.22      1.66    17.71      0.47    53.06    48.52    47.69    47.61    37.91    37.00
2003 /5                  6.81     6.81    39.73      1.99    18.15      0.47    60.34    53.53    52.54    52.17    41.46    40.10
2004 / a                 6.81     6.81    47.51      2.38    13.60      0.47    68.96    62.15    60.96    60.79    48.36    47.00
2005                     4.54     4.54    56.82      2.g4    19.04      0.47    79.17    74.63    73.21    73.72    58.80    57.89
2006                     4.54     4.54    64.42      3.22    19.30      0.47    87.41    82.87    81.26    81.96    65.39    64.48
2007                     4.54     4.54    73.03      3.65    19.57      0.47    96.72    92.18    90.36    91.27    72.84    71.93
2008                     4.54     4.54    82.79      4.14    19.84      0.47   107.24   102.70   100.63   101.79    81.25    80.34
2009                     4.54     4.54    93.86      4.70    20.11      0.47   119.14    114.60   112.25    113.69    90.77    89.86
2010                     4.54     4.54   106.40      5.33    20.39      0.47   132.59   128.05   125.39   127.14   101.53   100.62
2011                     4.54     4.54   117.22      5.87    20.44      0.47   144.00   139.46   136.53    138.55   110.66   109.75
2012                     4.54     4.54   129.14      6.47    20.49      0.47   156.57    152.03   148.80   151.12   120.72   119.83
2013                     4.54     4.54    142.27     7.13    20.54      0.47   170.41    165.87   162.31    164.96   131.79   130.S8
2014                     4.54     4.54    156.74     7.85    20.59      0.47   185.65    181.11   177.19   180.20   143.98   143.07
2015                     4.54     4.54   172.68      8.64    20.63      0.47   202.42    197.88   193.56   196.97   157.40   156.49
Total        181.42                    EIRR=                                              16.7%    16.6%    14.8%    14.4%    12.6%
NTPV (I2%)=                                        95.0     91.1     62.8      43.8     11.5
First Year Return                                  5.3%
/_a: Major resurfacing.
/_b: Net of the maintance savinp on the propoaed expressway and the existing road.
/_c: All figures arc rounded.



- 45 -                                      ANNEX 1
TABLE 5D: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVrITY ANALYSIS (SECTION 3)
(Y million, July 1995 prices)
Bae Case                                               ScnaitiAity Analysis
Case I   Case2    Case 3   Ca e4
Costa                                  Benefit                _
VOC            Reduced                                Gener-              Total    Cost
Nct b                Net   Gener- Cong.On  Reduccd                 Net      ated     Total  Bencfits  (+20%)
Constru  Road                 Sav-      *ted    ExisL    Accid-             Cash   Traffic     Cost           Benefits
Year          -cdon   MainL      Total      ngp   Traffic    Road      ents    Total    Fkow   (-50%)  (+20%)   (-20%)   (-20%)
Section 3:   Chuankou-Houliu (Tongchuan)
1990          10.91              10.91                                                 (10.91)  (10.91)  (13.09)  (10.91)  (13.09)
1991          22.76             22.76                                                  (22.76)  (22.76)  (27.31)  (22.76)  (27.31)
1992          27.04              27.04                                                 (27.04)  (27.04)  (32.45)  (27.04)  (32.45)
1993          10.25     1.77    12.02    (0.34)   (0.01)    2.39      0.30      2.34    (9.63)   (9.68)  (12.08)  (10.15)  (12.55)
1994                    1.77      1.77     0.65     0.03     4.14     0.30      5.12     3.35     3.34      3.00     2.33     1.97
1995                    1.77      1.77     1.70     0.07     4.22     0.30      6.29     4.52     4.49      4.17     3.26     2.91
1996                    1.77      1.77     2.41     0.10     4.42     0.30      7.23     5.46     5.41      5.11     4.01     3.66
1997                    1.77      1.77     3.42     0.15     4.62     0.30      2.49     6.72     6.65     6.37      5.02     4.67
1998                    1.77      1.77     4.86     0.22     4.83     0.30    10.21      S.44     S.33      8.09     6.40     6.04
1999                    1.77      1.77     6.90     0.32     5.05     0.30    12.57    10.30    10.64    10.45       8.29     7.93
2000                    1.77      1.77     9.81     0.49      5.29     0.30    15.39    14.12    13.S8    13.77    10.94    10.59
2001                     1.77     1.77    11.83     0.59      5.47     0.30    18.19    16.42    16.13    16.07    12.78    12.43
2002                    1.77      1.77    14.27     0.71      5.66     0.30    20.94    19.17    18.32    18.32    14.98    14.63
2003 / a                2.66      2.66    17.22     0.26      5.85     0.30    24.23    21.58    21.15    21.04    16.73    16.20
2004 / a                2.66      2.66    20.77     1.04     6.05      0.30    22.16    25.51    24.99    24.97    19.87    19.34
2005                     1.77     1.77    25.07      1.26    6.26      0.30    32.39    31.12    30.49    30.77    24.54    24.19
2006                     1.77     1.77    28.84     1.45     6.41      0.30    37.00    35.23    34.51    34.88    27.83    27.48
2007                     1.77     1.77    33.18     1.67     6.56      0.30    41.71    39.94    39.11    39.59    31.60    31.24
2008                     1.77     1.77    38.17     1.92     6.71      0.30    47.10    45.33    44.37    44.98    35.91    35.56
2009                    1.77      1.77    43.91     2.21     6.27      0.30    53.29    51.52    50.42    51.17    40.86    40.51
2010                     1.77     1.77    50.50     2.53     7.02      0.30    60.35    58.58    57.32    58.23    46.51    46.16
2011                     1.77     1.77    56.60     2.84     7.11      0.30    66.85    65.03    63.66    64.73    51.71    51.36
2012                     1.77     1.77    63.43     3.13     7.20      0.30    74.11    72.34    70.75    71.99    57.52    57.16
2013                     1.77     1.77    71.09     3.56      7.29     0.30    S2.24    20.47   7J.69    80.12    64.02    63.67
2014                     1.77     1.77    79.67     3.99     7.33      0.30    91.34    89.57    87.58    89.22    71.30    70.95
2015                     1.77     1.77    39.29     4.47     7.47      0.30   101.53    99.76    97.53    99.41    79.45    79.10
Total         70.96                   EIRR =                                            16.9%    16.6%    15.0%    14.6%    12.9%
- - -                  NPV (12%)                                          42.3     40.5     29.6     21.1       8.4
Firsl Year Return -                               4.5%
/_a: Major resurfacing.
/_b: Net of the mauuance savinp on the proposed expresway and the existn road.
/_c: AU figures are rounded.



-46 -                             ANNEX I
Iii  2 0 3 0 3  ~      0,-  0a
Iji   ow o < 00.w0< ff-."-n. . -  o.
4t1 ^^o ,'rj ~~'033-0_,r 0 00 00
2:  H                                           Z    G.-0~0 00 - 
CS~~~~~~~~~~1 S   t;ziu--2 .i1   
"-~~                0r4fl4000001 
I-~~~~a   e
<~~~~~~~~~~~- ----- -- -- -oooooooo
I's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
vE ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ < e    e'5u9u-tz       
'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
L                                                             i  s;*> 03n ...0$cXfl gi=w ;w   iw   ;t i tiww@st i=|i 
*0 ~        o                                                 - .  a a*  aO!  
~~~~,jS~~~~~ ~                            ,Oggggtjssssqo zooi0
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^au



Table 6.b: Economic Analysis of Rural Road Improvement and Repair
(Seman Road)
Cladrnia                                                     voc (Ymon)                                A,
xdmfw                      1a0                                                                       ye_         Win   ta
Ed. nued                    e)                   NiauldtN)                 TrdeT)                   txmia          WiL)       _xa          Clax    Cai1W(a
Exaft red                 73 0o    -U3            0 793    -CON             1.93    -C OT           200  a    3 5          .   M          ss        Pha
ftopwd Md                                                                         b6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .0  &7.0%           Paved
Propanxdrad               7300    -LN             06J7    -CNN              0977    -CNT             450      a. 73 5      C. M.            I          Fa
b 9s5        660#                       P.ved
rlffee                  000      -LD            0110    -CDN              0117    -CDT             250
a W.d, efp'varw"
T.tae-  aid avg (tvodak)                            250 s       TNON          5 D0     TTNT                    b WWI owbd de
Lfr ha  (#V                                        650%    -LFN              60 0%      LET                    C M - Maiaw  P - Plan
A,& Iacal dii   %fSk)                               1 63    -ALN              3.00    -ALT                       H - Hill.
d MaxDn. lo
Avg u      -*ne va W                                2 03      TS
Aeda  deaxed ( ). Ia                                1200   .  AC           Tun  akia-              Fr.a (Y.Aa .ettad)                         2IO  - TVF
Cas par a-.ad  (Yai*cnd)                            3,o00    - CA                                   trU   fYaub9eau          c)               I.00 - TVP
(I) TCa&. iaw tmsn*or                           (TCS-D)       Tr.ffKceabz.(N.flxS4 35aLbCO (N. TSa.AL (N.T)
(.)TCS ewreadav1enaat                           (TCSa-3       Tffievm(N. T)365tLNaCDO(N T)x AL (N. T
(3) Ganwred nie                                  (GT)           Total TCS x           0 05
(4) Ts  Ln     dtfirt                           tTSF)        - A njaia     NWi. xaTS t TVF
(3) Tum  *vup dfpmpwg                            (TSP)       - A.id pl _     tmSic x TS x TVP
(6) Rad sety ma                                  (DMS)         AC a CA
Base Cae tON0 Ye-)
Saanveus
Tvafn  ye                       C 6 casu                                                                    BOSa                                                                                                                     Cdus
-   --   -_______________  --                   --~~~~~~~~--TO-D-----   ----TCS-R----                                                                               Net   Coursed             Tida          Total       (.20%)
Yera                     asl       Tni          Cw.          WaN          Tolial     N eri       Te         N--TC         Tra__       OT          TSF         TSP         RSSd        Ta akl Utfi                                 ctda       bflad         bnfrut
-tAADT                               b I()                            (I)         (2)          (2)         (3)        (4)          (5)         (6)      bafu                le      (30%)           (.20%)        (.20%)        (-20%)
190                                            25.690                    25.690                                                                                                                    (25.690)      (25.691)      (30,020)     (23,690)      (30.020)
1990                     46          244        3170                      3.70                                                                                                                       (.170)       (3,170)       (3J04)       (3170)        (3.804)
1991                     397         m          3.70n                     1.71n                                                                                                                     (1.70)        0.790)        (2,136)      (1.740)       (2.136)
1n2                      734         341       3I                         3970                                                                                                                      (.970)        (3.976)      (4,764)       (3.970)       (4V764)
1993                    I.$          429                     475           475            0           0       4.V34        4.001        442        2.640         276          63      12.256        11.m71        11560         11.686        9,330         9,335
1994                    1.410        541                     475            73                                6.763        5.045        me         2.9           430          63      35.03         15.413        15,113        13310        12.233        12.140
199                    I.50          379                     473           473 S                              7,237        3,400        632        3.20          468          63      17.000        16.525        16,200        16.430       13.125        13,030
3996                    3393         611                      475          473                        0       7.63         53690        6'67       3374          495          63      37.932        17,457        17,124        172362       13.171         3.776
197                     3.480        045                      475          475            0           0       ,057        6.015         704       3461          521          63       139,21       13,446        1.094         13351        14.662        14,567
199I                   I.772         S                        473          475            0           4       8.4"9        6342          742       3,733         350          63      13.951        19.476        19.130        19,381       13.436        1.391
1999                      "          717                      475          473                        0     o  .964        V6n           73        3962         s5e           63      31.039        20,564        20.173        20.469       14V33         16,261
2900                    172          756                      475           475           0                     .45        7.050         323       4 133         612          63      22.139        21.714        21.303        21,619        17,276       17,121
2001                   XVSI          76                       47            47            0           4        9s37        7330          3ss       4340          637          63       23.973       2,390         22.160        223503        17.93        17a,31
2902 /                  2.133        817                      713           733           0           0       10230        7.619          n        4.322         663          63       23.999       23.277        22.331        23,134        13,479       13,336
2003 Ic                 2.Ua3        3SO                      713           713           0           0       10.633       7.927         "e        4.704         689          63       24.949       24,237        23.773        24094         19.247       19.104
2000                    2.307        V44                      473           473           3           0       11.0663       .244         963       4,391         713          63       23.946        23.471       24.9M         25,376        20.232       20,137
2003                    2399         919                      475          473            0           0       11.506      0t70         1.004       3.086         746          63       26,975       26,300        23,996        26.405       21.105        21.010
2006                    2.459        942                      473           473                       0       11.734       3,733       1.329       5.211         764          63       27.646       27.171        26.637        27.076        21,642       213547
2007                    2320         966                      475           473           0                   12.06        9.009       1.053       5,341         703          63       23,337       27,042        27,333        27,767       22,195        22.100
2003                    2.33         s90                      475           475           0           o       12,3"        9.232       1.031       5.475         003          63       29.042       2a.67         23.027        2S.472       22,759        22.664
2009                    2.640       1.013                     475           475           0           0       12.700       9.466       1,301       5,613        323           63       29.773       29.29s        20.744        29.203       23.343        23,240
2010                    2,714       1,349                     475           475           0           0       13.017       9.699       1.136       37535         344          63       30,514       30,039        29.471        29,944       23.936        23.,41
2011                   2.741        1,050                     475           475           0           0       13.146       9.792       1.147       5.012         052          63       30.012       30.337        29.764        30,242       24,175        24,030
2012                    2,763       1.061                     475           475           0           0       13.276       9.095       1,159       3,068         360          63       31.121       30.646        33,067        30,551       24,422        24.327
Tidal                                    34.619       3.075        42,680                                                                                      ENPV.                           27 0%         26 7%         24 3%        23 5%         70 9% 
-  ---                                                                                  N~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~         ~~~~~~~~~~PV (I rk) -  65.730  63.933  39.433  46.270   55,930
F.9 yeaWC ReC                  28.4%
a Aset,. I     ac6a   r tb diw  be I aidue fcr nay 4 km   Ihe eil    read p a
Ib. Teedl --r    e  cod fer e   pepoead read 6(500 YrVav)
Ie Major ra.afaeng,



Table 6 c: Economic Analysis of Rural Road Improvement and Repair
(Shangyun Road)
Ohirbaffulacs                                               VOC (YAk)                                 Aj
_d_"   L             -                                                     wpd        Widfi       Gndi
Coo)                ww. 01                    Trw (f                    O lr)         bo          4a          Cl    C
Exinmiqrod               105.41    LO             1.23t    -CON             1093    -COT             20.0       a. 5.0           4        S           Pr
b. *0       d. 7.9                  hwd
P,md  mad                105.40   -LN             1.067    -CNN             0.977    -CNT            45.0        *. 73        C. 4         m          Far
b.. 9.5     4. 60%                  Pond
D4i(lauc                000      -ID            0171    -CDN              0.117    -CDT            250
B. W6HO dopon4xa
Tooo.W. wd0g #.m?vd m, )                            I.50    -TNN             500      -TIT                     b. Wi&h  d,Kod
L_^  {rod  (9)                                     7 00S    - LFN            *000%     2LFT                    c 14 - t0mm0o6wflk P * Plw
Aowho~io@~o~clo)                                    2.03      ALN            3.00    -ALT                        H - Hill.
d. M    n to.
Avg &tb 0lvkOw)                                     2 91    -TS
Ac.id. rdK d (you)/o                               26.00    - AC           Tnx. ou.-               Frmoi  f(Yu-Oh.4 whdk)                    2I00 - TVF
Ce. p.. wet        (Y_toida)                        .350e    - CA                                 Paor (YUoM4W./oo)                           100 - TVP
(I) TC5 4.. lo mhw.w d4s0ct                     (TCS*D)    - Tnff. .o&    (N.T) x 365 x LD x CO (N. nT  AL (N, T)
(2) TCS d2 t. r_di o.ww                         (TCS-R)       Truff vfN  04.n  x 3645 x W   CD (N. n7  AL (N,. 
(3) Gawwod I,oOTc (G0)                                      - T      C2 TS *o         0.05
(4) To    xiW of boi$                           (TSF)         Amwol frnp0 0off.c     x TVF
(3) To. no  r4po*sff                            (TSP)       - Amuxl por  rAffc I T5 x TVP
(6) Rod moldy -wWq                              (R55)        - AC x CA
o. Co  (W000 You)
5Si ivities
T..2c v o                        Cxpibl co.                                                                 0cnfi0.                                                                                                                  Co.cm
-                -    __________________.-    .-TCS-D--    -TCS-r---                                                                                                           N.[    Oawmdd                 Toi           TOW)   (.20%)
You,                  N.o..        Tr.r    Ct.c    MULNr  T.ot                       N.Mm        ToocL.      N4.          Tracwr      GT          TSF         TSP        R55            Tul    c0A              O c              coo         b.m2fds       bentfi.                       00
AADT).--             I            /b                     (I)         (I)         (2)             (2)      (3)        (4)          (5)         (6)         bt          0A.          (.50%)          (.20%)        (.20S)        (.20%)                         1
1969                                          21.750                    21.750                                                                                                                     (21.750)      (21.750)     (26,100)      (21.750)      (26.100)
.190                     22)          S3       24                        2 1.140                                                                                                                    (2.140)      (2,140)       (2.560)       (2.140)       (2.56*)
1992                     161          79       2.554                     2550                                                                                                                       (2,330)       (2.550)       03.060)      (2.550)       (3.060)
29939 196                              0                     00         3,610                                                             3(3.610)                                                                (3.610)      (4.352)       (3.610)       (4.332)
1M"                      396         367                     606            84           0           0        303         403           203         90          129           9        5.464         477S         4.677         4.641         3,685         3.540
1994                     26          3                                     6x6           *                                                          063         173           91      12.611         I.,925       11.704       11.78J         9403          9.266
2993                     602         391                     684           646           0           0        4.165        .296         473        3.2S2        23            9)      23.492        22066        122570        12.669        10.109         9.970
2996                     634         425 I26                                 6           0           0        4.394       s.n92         499        3463         193          91       14.232        13.546        13.297       1.409         10.700        10.562
1997                     669         430                     6.4           686           0                    4.636       5.902         527        3,657        205           91      15.012        14.332        14.069       14,195        112128        11.191
2996                     706         462                     616           686           0           0        4,93       6,225         556        3.056        217           9)1     15233         15.152        14.374       15.015        I.904         112.47
2099                     74)         437                     686           614           0           0        3,263       6.562         306        4.067        229           9)      26.690        26,022        13.719       13.075        12.672        12.535
2000                     706         524                     616           66            0           0        5,447       6.926         619        4.20         240           91      17,613        164.927       16.613      126799         23.404        13.267
2001                     *17         53                      606           616           0            0       5662         7.209        644        4.459         249          91      1i.314        17.623        17.306        17.491       13.963        13.120
2002 / C                 *50         536                    1.029         ,029          0            0       3.392        7.492        669        4.635         258          91      19.036        18.007        17.673        17,201       14.200        13.994
2603 /c                  0n4         s17                    1,029         1.029          0            0       6.126        7,n79        696        4.023         270          91      19.795        18.766        10,423        1t.560       14.307        14.601
2004                     919         601                     64            686           0            0       6,369        2.099        723        3.016        202           91      20.579        19.393        I9.32         19.756       15,777        15.640
2005                     956         625                     606           646           0            0       6.625        S.422        752        5,215         29           91      2.3911        20.712        20336        20,575        16.432        16.295
2006                     060          44                      606          686           0            0       6.791        8,638        771        334           302          91      21.937        21.251        20.64         21.114       16264         16.726
2407                   1005          657                     646           46           60            0        .965        8.33         791       53479          311          91      22.490        21.304        21.49        21667         17306         17.169
2e0                    1.030         473                     64            616           0            0       7.1          9.069        320        5.614         319          91      23.041        22.355        2.956        22.218        17.747        17.610
2009                   1,036         60904 66                              66            6            0       7320         9296         133        5.755         322          91      23.621        22.935        22.326       22.79n        18.211        12,074
2010                   2.01          707                     6             616           0            0       7,4"         9527         3s5        5901.         337          92      24.203        23.519        23,094       23.312        12.67t       12.541
2021                  .1093          714                     616           686           0            0       7,575        9,621        S6"        S960          340          91      24.447        23.761        23.331       23.624        is,372        18.734                        >
2012                  12104          721                     68            6%6           0           0        7,651        9.716        361        6,012         343          91      24,637        24,001        23.567       23.64         19.064        13,926                           O
Tr.l                                     30.05C      11662        41,712                                                                                        fZ  -                          24.5%         24.2S        22 3S         21)2%         2 0%                         z
Toto  30NPV.(12%1.2                                                                                                                                  46.204       44, 0         40,400        31,239        25.513
F     IuBCr 40 *               13.2% I 
/    AM     o  r. xdn.d.t M6xt2 rn      b. I _ 6oa&. r0    4 kmboa  d.  ..0r d p.m..
Lb: Too iafl nw cos (0f 2         od rod            6,500  Yibaro).
I_c   p     r r-Icm



Table 6d: Economic Analysis of Rural Road Improvement and Repair
(Shangzha Road)
Chwootoks                                                       VOC (YAkm)                                  Avx
mid psuodat              LLn4b                    _        _                         _                  qsood       WKY           Or&
odf read    ,                  w                   Naonm (N)                  Tta mT                     (bf)                   fan               Cho   Condo
Emssixg.ad                 12925    - LO             0 7"       CON             1091    - COT             20 0         a 50         c M           Ss          Pr
69  6   d7 5%                        Pond
Prpodrod                   129.25    -LN             0.6x7    -CSN              0977      -CNT            450          a 735         C. 64        U            Fo
0.90    d4*.0%                        Pod
Ddrfqeo                   a 00     -ELD            0110      -CDN             0117      - CDT           25 0         b 90    vr4
To-ap- Sa ad*Vg (1anvdtlck)                            2 50       TNN             5 0      . TNT                     b W0th o dmt&
L-d&wlcta (%)                                         65.0%    -LEN              6000%     *LFT                      cm  M0 Lm.4a0ssP - Plan
A& l.       36% (aLFdSk)                               2.63       AIN             3 00       ALT                       H - tisl.
Avg (loi    wases t7iv2                                362      -T5
Acc,b6 d r.c6 d (ey) /a                               32.00    - AC            Tme .obj..               Fre.6(t (Y ouao.. t-  ,k)                    2 00  - TvF
Cat per Scdt (Ysmsaad)                                3500    - CA                     f-aY  (pebroo05mIst                           )                1.00  * T7
(I) TCS ds to diar diyce                           (TCS.D)      Troffic -okb (N. T) o 365 x LD x CO (N. ) x AL. (N. )
(2) TCS  ea a. du rovcmeo                          (TCS-f )     .Trollf  v       f(,S. T) x 365 x LN x 0C   (   T) x AL (N. T)
(3) Ganed tfK                                      (GT)         -To   TCax                 0.05
(4) Ta    ewo dbieh                                (TSF)        - Aoo-l A1t wfaic x TS x 7W
(3) Tame   np of paa,gW                            (TSP)        - An Iss pa     r off. x TS x TVP
(63 aRd sdyuty                                     (,RSS)         AC x CA
Ba  Coo (000 YVr,30
TrtffK Voh                       CaOL ca                                                                        Boofeu                                                                                                                          COar
----          -        -.-                    ------ --      -   --TCS-D---- - ---TC5-R---                                                                                        Ndt        O aw d               Total          Total       (.20V4)
Yean                    Naorm        Tidi.        Ca_          Mast.          Totll      NromI        Trtoo        NamW         Traer            UT          TSF          TSP        RSS       Total         cash          bolt)            c costs       b.nfta        bof6xxs
(AADT)---                             Lb                      (l)         (l)          (2)          (2)             (3)          (4)           (5)         (6)   beofos          Iat          (-50%)           (.20%)         (-2%)          (-20%)
19f9                                             27.290                     27.29                                                                                                                            (27.290)       (27.290)      (22.742)       (27.290)      (32,748)
1290                      455          112        3.n20                      3.220                                                                                                                             (3.220)       (3.120)        (4334)        (3.220)        (4.5U4)
1991                      643          252        2.030                      2.030                                                                                                                             (,030)        (2.030)       (9,636)        (2.030)       (9,636)
2992                      756          140        4.620                      4,620                                                                                                                             (4.620)       (4,620)       (5.544)        (4.620)       (5344)
2993                      035          247                        44           044            0            0        7.124        2.432         472         2.014         148          112       12.356        11222          112273        11343           9.041         2.272
1994                     U2            159                         4           2              0            0        7.234        2.63          494         2.222         227          112       12.927         I2.003        I01 36        22.914          9.496         933"
1995                      907          270                        4             04                         0        7.730        2t20          322        2.33           242          112       13.222        12,977         12.713        22.12,         10.213        10.044
1996                      957          179                        44           U              0            0        t.64         2.969         557         2.510         256          112       14.562         13,724        13.444        13.555         10.210        10.642
2997                    12020         129                                      244            0            0        2.,16        ).135         sU         2.447          271          22        12,369        142525         14.231        14.354         11.451        11.212
199                      2.06           99                       244           544            0                     9.094        3,301         620        272            223          112       16.204         15,340        15.050        15.191         12.119        11.950
1299                     1.125         210                       544           S"             0            0        9.591        3.44         654         2.943         29           112       27.090        12.244         15,919        16.077         22,0           12.659
2000                     2.27          222                        44           S"             0            0        024          3I3            69         3.102         317          222        22.00         2721         I2.24           17.017        23300          13,411
2001                     1.234         231                       I4            S              0                    20.527        5.32          718         3.225         332          12        1.700         27902         27,543         17.733        14.153        213,9U
2002 Ic                  1.223         240                     1.266          1.266           0            0       20.945        3."2           74         3.354         344          112       19.424         12.211        17.243         17.943        14.322         14.061
2003 /c_                 1.334         250                     1.246          1.260                        0       11.381        4,247         774         3.492         361          112       20.269         19,003        22.415         2,7530        14.949         14.6ff
270                      1237          260                       U44           24             0            0       22.23         4,313          07         3,49          375          I22       21.069         20.225        19.,22        20.054         26,022         152.4
2003                     2.442         270                       S"4           S              0                     2302         4.49          e39         3,773         394          22        22.495         21.051        20.4632       230.12         24472          14.033
200                      2.470         277                       044           044            0            0       22.009        4.393         so          30417         400          222       22.443         22399         22.169        22.430         27.220        24.942
2007                     1,213         2U4                       04             44                         0       12.925        4.711          W          3,90          421          112       23,001         22.157        21.716        22.9M          17.357         17.300
200                     12553          291                       244            44            0                    13.249        4.827         904         4.042         422          I22       23.575         22.731        22.27         22.562         18.016         17.247
2009                     2.592         291                       U44            44            0            0        31.52        4.943          924        4.162         433          112       24.152         23,314        22.251        23.143         122422        22.)34
2020                     2.632         305                       24             44            0            0       13.923        3.059         949         4.243         444          112       24,750         23.906        23,432        23.737         18.934        22.772
20211                    1648          30I                        44           U44            0            0       14.059        5.109         "I          4.307         447          222        4.992         24.148        23.44         23.979         19.150       I2,9l
2012                     1,664         311                       U44           U44            0            0       14.12f        5,159          948        4,330         451          112       25.236         24393         23.90         24.223         19.341         19.176
Total                                      43.760       14342         5t.108                                                                                             ERR-                            21 t           202%          I225%          17.9%          25.5%                         I
_              _           ,_,,_,                                                                                           NPV(12%)-                       40.129         33.656        12,249         24.110        16.0U4
Fiu  you bJC                     21 4%
/ . Ar     et   a  Kccoidot restad.i tt 0. I        for cy 4 bx wide enst  rod p a
/b: Total mtdsee .s.   f.o  proposed rood (          6540.0   Y&A'Ye).
/    ajor r. ulhc



6-                                                                            1III1 6
.   .....           SI o
U i. |   S           .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .  
t t S gC t                      t' I                                       $    ,ut Z         
-w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-   ------   ---- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~--~
-   - - -- - - - - - -
-                      22 Z5 t            a
---O-----o-------^-                                                 a                        <;
I                                          [4 O_!>|o___      ;DfORI^  
I~               IX Ri                 . -nC
w                                     .
it-  ~4                   .                                              2 .F:                   l@e
"---- -- -_3_-_ -    >f& -g -g -t{ - -
Z   -----------~   ~     ~    ~     I                                                                    -
---~_--_-_-_---             ___*
I                                    --gSt   0C
I XINNV                                                  O 



- 51-                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 7: RURAL ROADS PROGRAM (SAR VS. ICR)
Total    Total costs (mY)    Unit    Total
length of    Jan.    July     costs   traffic
constr.    1988     1995    ('OOOY   (AADT)    ERR
(km)    prices    prices     /km)    (1994)    (%)
Flood Repairs:
Shangxian-Shagao (Shangsha) Road
The SAR                                 101.00       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
The ICR                                 100.78         -    34.61     343.4    2,082      27.0
Sehe-Manchuan (Scman) Road
The SAR                                  73.00       n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.
The ICR                                  73.00         --   20.38    279.2    1,951       41.9
Subtotal           The SAR              174.00     45.00     80.89    464.9                 n.a.
The ICR              173.78         -    54.99    316.4                33.3
Road Imt)rovement:
Shangnan-Yunxi (Shangyun) Road
TIhe SAR                                105.50     27.18    48.86    463.1       341       18.0
The ICR                                 105.48         -    30.05     284.9      929      24.5
Shangxian-Zhashui (Shangzha) Road
The SAR                                 129.90     36.18     65.03    500.6      801      25.0
The ICR                                 129.85         -    43.76    337.0    1,007       21.1
Pingli-Zhenping (Pingzhen) Road-Replaced
The SAR                                  59.50    28.70      51.59    867.1      297       16.0
Subtotal           The SAR              294.90     92.06    165.48    561.1                 n.a.
The ICR              235.33         =    73.81     313.6               22.6
Missing Links road:
Langao-Zhenping (Lanzhen) Road-New
The ICR                                  50.00         =    30 62    612.4       930      99.2
Grand Total              The SAR              468.90    137.06   246.37     525.4                 n.a.
The ICR              459.11         -   159.42    347.2                41.5
Savings            (in %)                 2.1%               35.3%    33.9%



- 52 -                     ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
1.    The scope of the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project is defined in the Loan
Agreement (e.g. Loan No. 2952-CHA) which was signed by Shaanxi Provincial
Government and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 27th
February 1989 and became effective from 31st May 1989. Each Subproject targets
provided in the project evaluation document and Loan Agreement are all performed, and
these works are formally evaluated by this report.
Project Introduction
2.    The project designed in Evaluation Document and Loan Agreement are: (a) 67 km
long Sanyuan-Tongchuan (San-Tong) Highway construction (among which, 51 km is
Class I, 16 km is Class II); (b) Providing 48 person-month foreign consultant service, to
help SPTD to train road construction supervision and quality control personnel; (c) 295
km long rural road improvement in southern Shaanxi, and 174 km long erosion protection
road maintenance; (d) establishing Road Pavement Management System to work out
schemes of pavement strengthening and road maintenance improvement; (e) establishing
computerized road data bank to provide and keep in store basic data information for
developing, planning, designing, constructing and maintaining of the Shaanxi Provincial
highway system; (f) training by selecting and sending personnel abroad, providing and
purchasing equipments for laboratory, computer, photography, survey and training.
3.    The projects completed are: (a) 66.42 km long Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
construction, among which 31.02 km Sanyuan-Yaoxian highway is Class I auto-only
highway, 20.28 km Yaoxian Chuankou highway is half-width auto-only Class I highway;
15.13 km Chuankou-Houliu is ordinary Class II highway; (b) The consultant service of
San-Tong Highway was undertaken by Haas Company. The foreign experts did a
remarkable job on the 48 person months supervision consultant service and completed 28
person-months training abroad and domestic training according to requirement in
Evaluation Document and consultant contract; (c) During the three years from Oct. 1989
to Dec. 1992, improvement, reconstruction and repair of five rural roads were completed,
among which 295 km long rural roads were reconstructed, erosion protection roads of
174 km long were repaired; (d) CPMS is operational in five prefectures and cities for
4,754 km long trunk road management; (e) Road pavement management system of
prefecture and city level has already been established and the system can meet the national
specifications. The system is already accepted and being used in some prefectures and
cities after being appraised, and the system uses plentiful data and charts to perform all
kinds of inquiry and statistics to instruct highway-planning; (f) Completed 80.5 person-
months training of project planning, highway designing, road data bank, pavement
management system, road maintenance, financial affairs management and project
management, etc.



- 53 -                     ANNEX2
Achievement of the Project Target
4.    MOC issued Jiaoji No. 823 document in Nov. 1986, to approve that the main
project of Shaanxi Highway Projects are on the waiting list as the sixth World Bank Loan
project. On the basis of evaluation by SPC, the World Bank mission of Mr. Kennedy,
Mrs. Teravaninthorn and Mr. Anderson pre-evaluated the project from 4th to 8th July
1987, and appraised the project from 29th Jan. to 6th Feb. 1988. The formal appraisal
report was on 12th May 1988. The Loan Agreement was signed on 27th Feb. 1989 and
became effective from 31 st May.
5.    During Evaluation period, the World Bank had many negotiations with SPTD.
The World Bank officials fully understood that during the several decades after
establishing of the People's Republic of China, the policy or economic development is to
lay stress on being self-sufficient and give priority to developing heavy industries. Basic
construction of transportation is seriously constrained especially in the inland areas, so the
highway construction cooperation on transportation requirement, funding the
improvement of existing road condition and management with the World Bank is very
necessary. The two parts reached the same understanding on the Shaanxi Highway
project target; constructing 67 km Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway, which is an extension of
Xi'an-Sanyuan Highway (the first World Bank Loan project, Loan No. 2359-CHA/Credit
No. 1594-CHA), to form a high-speed transportation corridor between Xi'an and
Tongchuan. In poorest areas of Southern Shaanxi, improve 295 km of rural roads and
repair 174 km of eroded roads to help the villages get rid of poverty; the subproject target
of road data bank, pavement management system, supervision consultant and personnel
training, etc. which is a supporting system to our provincial transport-related construction
development.
Project Planning and Designing
6.    According to project planning target in the evaluation report: (a) introduce
modernized road planning technique by establishing computerized road data bank;
(b) introduce existing road pavement evaluation technique and the technology for
preparing a scheme of pavement strengthening and road maintenance management;
(c) personnel training; (d) provide continuous support on design, construction, preparation
of material specifications and preparation of contract documents; (e) help Shaanxi
Provincial Government to realize the target of economic development in the poor village
areas; (f) traffic safety.
7.    To realize the above planning target, the project design includes the
following: (a) construct 67 km long Sanyuan-Tongchuan (San-Tong) 51 km Class I
highway and 16 km Class II highway; (b) consultant service: help train the personnel from
SPTD on road construction supervision and quality control; (c) improve the road network
in southern Shaanxi; (d) evaluate existing roads, work out a set of schemes for
strengthening, improving and maintaining the network; (e) help SPTD to improve highway
planning methods, including establishing a computerized road data bank; (f) personnel
training.



- 54 -                     ANNEX2
Project Implementation
8.    San-Tong Highway Project. According to procurements of works provided in
the World Bank evaluation report, SPTD entrusts China Machinery Import and Export
Company to complete international bidding prequalification by 22nd March 1988 to 25th
March 1988 and complete procurement of works between Jan. 10th and October 19th
1989. After being agreed by the World Bank, national bidding was carried out from Nov.
to Dec. 1990. Supervision consultant service contract was signed with German Haas
Company on March 9th 1990. The supervision was undertaken by China International
Engineering Consultant Company. Haas Company appointed Mr. Hart as resident
supervision engineer and at the same time of supervision implementation, Haas company
performed consultant service and training according to the evaluation requirement. The
construction started section by section from April 1990 and the whole road opened to
traffic in Dec. 1992.
9.    Rural Road. Rural road construction was carried out with the method of force
account by local government. Supervision engineering office was formed by prefectures
or county traffic divisions to carry out supervision work.
10.   Pavement Management System. SPTD established CPMS popularization and
application leading group and working group to carry out the CPMS popularization
training on reference system determination method, data collecting and cataloguing,
installation, mode parameter system operation. During Feb. to Aug. 1993 the pilot work
was completed in Baoji. In May 1994 the promotion of work was carried out in
Xianyuan, Yan'an, Hanzhong and Weinan prefectures and plan to complete the
initialization task by Sept. 1995.
11.   Road Data Bank. SPTD established road data bank pilot work leading group
Information Center and established road data bank working group. The project
preparation and feasibility study was completed in May 1991. Software preparation, data
collecting and system operation and revision work were completed between Jan. 1991 and
March 1992. Between Jan. and Oct. 1993, completed the development of road data bank
of prefecture and city level and completed the preparation of all the technical documents
by using self developed geographic information system (GIS) software.
12.   Personnel training. In 1990, 28 person-month abroad engineering supervision
training was carried out in Germany. In 1991, 39 person-month abroad training on project
planning, project management, highway designing and financial payment was successively
carried out in America, Britain, Australia and Thailand; In 1992, 25 person-months
training on road data bank and pavement evaluation in the United States and Canada; In
1993, 12 person-months training on traffic engineering, road evaluation and road
maintenance was successively carried out in Spain, Australia and Germany; In 1994, 3
person-months training on financial affairs management in United States. In 1995, 2
person-months training on project management was carried out in France. The total
abroad training was 109 person-months.



- 55 -                     ANNEX2
Operation Experience
13.   The operation conditions of the main project and subprojects of Shaanxi Highway
Project are basically good.
14.   San-Tong Highway Past Two Years Traffic Volume. According to the
statistics, the average daily traffic volume in 1993 and 1994 on new road did not reach the
forecast volume. But according to the calculation to the first half year average daily traffic
volume of the third year, the average traffic volume of 1995 is calculated to be: Sanyuan-
Yaoxian 4,180 units/day, Yaoxian-Chuankou 3,681 units/day, Chuankou-Houliu 2,451
units/day, increased, respectively 43%, 36% and 61% comparing with the traffic volume in
1994. This rapid increase of traffic volume from the third year on is caused by the
gradually knowing and adapting to the new road by the users. And this trend of
acceptance of the new and traffic increase meets with the objective of the Province in
constructing the Xi'an-Sanyuan Highway, Xi'an-Lintong Highway and the new airport
highway (for details, see supplementary documents). Meanwhile this experience
strengthened our confidence in achieving the project operation benefits. In order to gain
full economic and social benefits from the project under the condition of satisfactory
traffic volume which fits with the evaluation report, it is necessary to adopt inducing and
limiting measures to attract more traffic to the new road, in order to reach respective
result.
15.   Rural Road. Taking the experience from other road management, the completed
rural road project has been put into normal maintenance and management program.
Resource of maintenance funds and manpower is ascertained to ensure and improve the
normal operation.
16.   Road Data Bank. This project is already operated in five prefectures and
municipalities and it efficiently satisfied the requirements of various types of information
inquiry, statistics, and individual items are analyzed by each division. Reducing
manpower, increasing working effect, scientific policy decisions are powerful tools for
highway management modernization.
17.   Pavement Evaluation System. According to the operation result in the five
prefectures and municipalities, achieved the target of applying CPMS long-, medium-, and
short-term maintenance management targets of determining a maintenance fund
distribution plan on project and road-net work management levels. Improved
management level, realized the transfer from traditional trunk road maintenance
management to scientific, modernized management.
Work by Contractor and Consultant
18.   San-Tong highway project was built as an international competitive bidding
project. Liaoning Provincial Road Bureau undertook contract section A, 17th Bureau of
Railway undertook contract section B-1, D, C-2, C-4 and Chuankou interchange, Shaanxi
Road and Bridge company undertook section B-2, C- I and C-3. The contract period was



- 56 -                      ANNEX2
15, 22, 24, 30 months, respectively. Total work quantity during contract period
performed by the contractors is 7.34 million cubic meter earthwork, 2,969 m/25 major and
medium bridges, 217 culverts, 6 interchanges, 10 grade separations, 1,049 thousand
square meter of pavement. On the 66.42 km long highway the construction quality and
the operation conditions during the last three years have been good. An appraisal of the
highway according to national acceptance standards will also be made.
19.   Work by consultant. A foreign engineer assisted local consultants and local
technical staff to supervise the construction of the San-Tong highway over a two-year
period. His cautious working attitude and high sense of responsibility gave people deep
impression. He went out to the construction site every working day. He was very strict
to the contractors; whenever the work was not in good quality he required the contractors
to redo it. Meantime, he helped the contractors to solve technical problems and trained
Chinese supervision engineers. He prepared more than 100 memos concerning quality,
progress and contract related affairs. His work played a very important role in the San-
Tong highway quality control. The World Bank sent officials to inspect the construction
for several times and they showed their satisfaction with the work. The construction of
San-Tong highway project is also praised by MOC and Shaanxi Provincial Government.
Because of the foreign consultant's remarkable work, he was invited to the grand national
celebrations of the People's Republic of China in 1992. He was granted an interview by
Premier Li Peng and awarded a "friendship medal" by the National Foreign Expert
Bureau.
20.   Work by supervision engineer. San-Tong Highway was built following
International Competitive Bidding process. Supervision engineer carried out the
management strictly on work quality, contract period and investment in accordance with
"FIDIC" provisions and supervision procedures and methods. To guarantee the work
quality, the engineers implemented an overall supervision system of tasks "before, during
and after the construction". Started inspection, supervision of materials and equipment on
site; if the materials and equipment did not qualified, the construction was not allowed to
start. During construction, adopted spot checking and inspection of ongoing works
method to supervise every aspects of the construction quality. After construction, still
carried out check, and found the quality unacceptable, no payment was made. Controlled
the work quality and investment implementation efficiently.
21.   Experience. During the construction of San-Tong Highway project, we have
gained the following experience: (a) ample preparation work is the foundation for good
project management, especially under international competitive bidding, and good
preparation can reduce the cost, ensure quality and contract period; (b) implementation of
supervision by institutions is an efficient method to ensure quality and progress, control
investment and improve management level; (c) agency of employer, was an organization
center of project implementation, controlled the quality, progress and investment of the
project by coordinating relationships with each units involved; (d) consciously accepted
the instructions by the World Bank, actively cooperated to complete the project
successfully.



-57-                       ANNEX2
Works by the Executive Division
22.   Project Preparation. SPTD did plentiful preparation work for San-Tong
highway project: Project appraisal is submitted in May 1985, Engineering feasibility
study report is completed in June 1986. Task planning is reported in April 1987.
Preliminary designing is approved in September 1988. In May 1986, applied for the
World Bank Loan. Pre-evaluation was in July 1987 and appraisal in May 1988. Loan
Agreement became effective from May 1989. During these preparation, SPTD achieved a
lot of support from the World Bank, SPC, MOC and Shaanxi Provincial Planning
Committee. Meanwhile, during the formulation of the subprojects of rural roads, road
data bank, pavement evaluation system, etc., SPTD completed pavement planning,
engineering feasibility study, designing for the San-Tong highway, ascertained the
necessary funds for the project, established a leading group and research organization, and
determined project targets. Later on selected personnel for training and inspected and
supervised the works during implementation.
23.   Project Implementation. To implement San-Tong highway project, Shaanxi
Provincial Government established construction headquarters. SPTD established a
construction coordinating leading group, the Shaanxi Provincial High Class Highway
Administration formed a San-Tong project office. The headquarters ensured the
coordination, project management, construction management, land acquisition and
resettlement, planning and financial management, building material supply, political affairs,
propaganda, etc. The overall management of the project had been carried out efficiently.
24.   During the implementation of the rural roads subproject, SPTD organized experts
for site visits, ascertained the investment plan and ensured that the necessary domestic
funds are available on time. For other subprojects, SPTD carried out the launching of the
pilot RDB study and inspected the progress in the pilot area, coordinated the cooperation
between each departments, discussed and made decision regarding major problems,
organized examination and appraisal, etc. These works played a very important role to
project implementation.
25.   Experience. San-Tong Highway-The organization of implementation project
was perfect and efficient. This is one very important experience. Another important
experience is the conscientious popularization of the role of the supervision engineer and
enforcing construction supervision as required by the World Bank. The investment scope
was not efficiently controlled because of lack of investment funds, and a lot of design
variations and price increases happened. The rural road program contributed to economic
activities and was implemented satisfactorily. But lack of equipment influenced the
construction progress.
26.   Road data bank and pavement management system is profound and significant
basic work to improve road management modernization.



- 58 -                     ANNEX2
27.   Combining the research with pilot work is another very important experience. But
during the operation and popularization, the problem of lack of knowledge and talented
personnel is still existed and this problem need to be improved and raised.
Work by the World Bank
28.   Project Preparation. World Bank started to work on Shaanxi Highway Project
from July 1987, made site visits to San-Tong Highway and rural roads in southern Shaanxi
and pre-evaluated the project. The appraisal was in May 1988. The formal appraisal
report was issued on 12th May 1988. The report gave an overall arrangement to the
project installation, benefits and planning and outlined active instruction rules to the
project implementation.
29.   Project Implementation. During the project implementation, the World Bank
and the implementing agency had good cooperation. Beside supervising by progress
reports, the World Bank mission came to Shaanxi for site visits for three times in March
1989, Nov. 1990 and May 1992, respectively, practically and realistically solved many
problems during the project implementation and ensured successful implementation of the
project.
30.   Cooperation Between the Executive Divisions. San-Tong Highway was another
World Bank Loan project after Xi'an-Sanyuan Highway World Bank Loan project. SPTD
had good cooperation with the World Bank. The World Bank officials gave full
understanding and support on the development of transportation infrastructure and solve
the restricting factors of economic development in the inland areas. During the project
implementation the World Bank put all efforts into helping the project. The Shaanxi
Provincial Government and SPTD are very thankful and hope the World Bank can give
further support to Shaanxi and make change for even better cooperation.
31.   Experience. Experience of Shaanxi Highway Project implementation: (a) The
World Bank helped the executing agency to improve project management level. Strict
management procedure and supervision reduced the engineering cost and increased
quality; (b) By personnel training a batch of professional talent were trained for Shaanxi
on project management, engineering supervision, highway design, financial management,
road data bank and pavement management system. These people made full use of their
knowledge during the implementation of the Shaanxi Highway Project; (c) On road data
bank and pavement evaluation system, the project targets were practically and realistically
determined after negotiation with full understanding of the Chinese conditions. The World
Bank also give plentiful support and help for the project. Economy and practicability were
also considered while stressing on benefits of the project. All these provided us with
useful and correct guidance.



- 59-                      ANNEX2
Operation Planning
32.   Reference Comments on Future Operation Planning
(a)   San-Tong Highway. Establish modem management system, work out a
perfect plan for future operation and prepare a set of operation manuals to
instruct future operation management. Construct half-width auto-only
Class I road from Yaoxian to Chuankou to change the traffic safety
conditions and attract more traffic. Since the old road also gets benefits, so
certain amount of tolling is charged on old road and adjust the tolling
standard on the new road, develop high class highway professional
transportation, to accelerate the growth of freight and passenger
transportation, and development on both sides of the road. Make the land
more valuable to increase overall benefits.
(b)   Rural Road. Include 469 km rural roads in the annual road maintenance
plan, ascertain funds, manpower and material to ensure that the roads are
open on fine as well as on rainy days, gain full social and economic
benefits, promote industrial and agricultural development and increase the
farmers' income.
(c)   Road Management System. Use two years from 1996 to apply CPMS
for project level and road network level analysis. For investment policy
decision, take Xi'an as a pilot place to work out the best maintenance
needs measurement system under the condition of budget constraint.
(d)   Road Data Bank. On the basis of being completed in the five pilot
prefectures and cities, the Road Data Bank promotion and application will
be completed in 50 percent of the area of the Province before 1996, and
completed in 10 prefectures and municipalities before 2000.
33.   Supervision and Implementation Indicators
(a)   San-Tong Highway. National economic and financial evaluation is carried
out once every three years, to supervise implementation of operation plan.
Supervision indicators are: ERR, net benefit values, rate of costs and
benefits and investment repayment rate, volume of traffic, maintenance fee,
traffic accidents, tolling levels and tolling amount.
(b)   Rural Road. Investigation of GOVAI and families annual income during
the influenced areas is carried out every year. Monitor the indicators of
GOVAI and average income.
(c)   Pavement Management System. Implementation supervision indicators
are: By 1996, complete the five prefectures and municipalities. CPMS



- 60 -                      ANNEX2
application training and four data collections input. The checking and
acceptance of the system in the five prefectures and municipalities in 1997.
(d)   Road Data Bank. Ascertaining the availability of funding, organizational
and staffing needs. Definition of targets and performance indicators.



-61-                       ANNEX3
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    This Aide Memoire records the major points of discussions and understandings
reached among representatives of Ministry of Communications (MOC), Shaanxi Provincial
Transport Department (SPTD) and the World Bank mission (Messrs. 0. Raggambi, D.
Rix and Huang Bang Ben) during July 9-13, 1995, in Xian, regarding the preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Background
2.    A loan of $50 million for the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project was approved in
September 1988, and became effective at the end of May 1989. The main component of
the project, the construction of the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway started in April 1990,
was substantially completed and opened for traffic in December 1992, and was fully
completed during 1993. The other civil works component of the project, comprising the
construction and improvement of five roads in Shangluo and Ankang prefectures (Rural
Roads), was executed during October 1989 and October 1992. The project as a whole,
including equipment procurement and staff training was completed in the latter half of
1994. The loan was fully disbursed and the loan accounts closed on October 28, 1994.
3.   In March 1995 the Bank provided SPTD with the information related to the Bank's
requirements regarding the ICR, and outlined the key steps involved in its preparation
through close cooperation between SPTD personnel and Bank staff. Following this, Mr.
Han-Kang Yen, Research Analyst of the Transport Division, China and Mongolia
Department visited the Province in March/April 1995. He was provided with sufficient
information to prepare a draft econornic evaluation for the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
and the five road sections comprising the Rural Roads component of the project. Also,
SPTD submitted to the Bank in May 1995 a post-evaluation report on the implementation
of the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway.
Status of ICR Preparation
4.    The primary objective of the ICR mission has been to (a) discuss with SPTD the
draft economic evaluation for the civil works component of the project to assure the
accuracy of the data; (b) obtain information related to other components of the project,
namely: equipment procurement, status of development of the Road Data Bank (RDB),
Pavement Management System, and staff training, (c) reach an understanding with SPTD
on the plans for the future operational aspects of key project components, including
indicators for monitoring and evaluating future operations, and (d) outline the key aspects



- 62 -                     ANNEX3
that should be addressed in an evaluation report, not exceeding 10 pages, to be submitted
to the Bank by SPTD, through MOC/MOF, for inclusion in the ICR.
5.    Regarding items 4 (a) and (b), the following points emerged in the course of
discussions:
(a)   Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
(i)   Following the review of the draft economic evaluation it was noted
that the traffic volume indicated in the draft needs to be revised,
particularly on the two-lane section between Chuankou and Houliu
(15.1 km), and possibly updated on the other two sections of the
highway, in light of the recent trend reflected in traffic counts over
the first six months of 1995. Revised traffic data has been provided
to the mission.
(ii)    The fact that the existing parallel roads to the new highway were
widened and upgraded during the last few years has not been taken
into account in the evaluation. Relevant information will be
submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1995.
(iii)   SPTD has agreed to provide the Bank, by August 31, 1995, with
information on the maintenance activities on the highway during
years 1993, 1994 and 1995 including the location, type, extent,
reason for damage and cost involved.
(b)   Rural Roads. A completion report on construction/upgrading of the five
rural roads was handed to the mission. The mission requested some
additional information regarding GOVAI and annual farmer income at
provincial and county levels for corresponding years referred to in the
report.
(c)   Equipment Procurement. A summary report on the equipment
procurement has been handed over to the mission. It will be supplemented
by an itemized list of equipment procured, which will be submitted to the
Bank by August 31, 1995.
(d)   RDB and PMS Programs. The mission was comprehensively briefed
about the progress made on the development and application of these
programs, and was provided with written material.
(e)   Staff Training Programs. Staff training records, in tabular form, were
provided to the mission. SPTD will prepare a qualitative assessment of the
program, which will be submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1995.



- 63 -                      ANNEX3
Future Operation Plans and Monitoring
6.    It was agreed that as part of its plan for the future operation of the project, SPTD
would undertake the following actions:
(a)   Xian-Tongchuan Highway. Prepare and thereafter maintain an
Administrative Operation Manual for the overall management and the day
to day operation of the Xian-Tongchuan Highway. The manual will
include (i) a schedule for taking measures for improving the operational
efficiency of the highway, such as enforcing access control, converting
gradually the open tolling system into a closed system; (ii) procedural
instructions and formats for the regular monitoring of traffic volume,
prevailing toll rates, toll revenues, budgets and expenditure statements,
maintenance costs, cost of additional investments to improve the efficiency
of the highway system, accident records and any other items which have a
bearing on the efficient operation of the system; (iii) monitoring land use
changes in the highway corridor, which could be attributed the highway;
(iv) provision for the reevaluation of the economic benefits, from the end of
1995 in three year intervals.
(b)   Rural Roads. Within the administrative framework of the respective
District Office of the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau,
records for the five road sections constructed/improved under the project
will be kept in an easily accessible manner, and will include: (i) traffic
information, based on regular traffic censuses, on routine and periodic
maintenance expenditures; and (ii) statistical information for the
corresponding administrative areas on yearly GOVIA and farmers' incomes
through 1998.
(c)   Road Data Bank. Establish a schedule for updating the RDB data (490
data items at present), indicating the frequency of update required, the
entities and administration units responsible for providing the data for the
update, and the annual cost associated with the update, and regularly
monitor compliance with the schedule.
(d)   Pavement Management System. Establish a schedule for the
introduction of PMS for the remaining prefectures/municipalities in
physical terms (lengths of the paved network), and regularly monitor
progress against such schedule, and establish a schedule for the effective
application of the PMS for investment decisions in physical terms (lengths
of paved highway), and regularly monitor progress against such schedule.
Summary Report to be Included in ICR
7.    The mission explained to SPTD the requirements and content of the evaluation
report on the project, which is to be prepared by SPTD. The outline of these requirements



- 64 -                      ANNEX3
was handed over to SPTD. In addition, the mission clarified the schedule for preparation
of the report, as well as the schedule for delivery and provision of comments on the Bank's
portion of the ICR.
8.    The tentative schedule for the further processing of the ICR is as follows:
(a)   Bank forwards draft ICR to SPTD for comments-mid-November 1995.
(b)   SPTD forwards comments on draft ICR and Evaluation Report to Bank-
end of November 1995.
Xian, July 13, 1995
Note: The original of the Aide Memoire, signed by a representative of SPTD and the
Bank, is in the Project File.



CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
TRANSPORT NETWORK
SHAANXI PROVINCE
-  W..  ...$. 2-3t C"A/C_II  *St. C)U       ri 
NEI MONGGOL ZIZHIOU )i
\   !          o       8\ . ., 0    ~~~~~SHANXI 
NINGXIA HUIZIU (                            -          |     ) ' ~ .n
r~~~~~~~
\ ~~~SI                                                      H   \>s v jOENANF
A: S  tj'" )/Z-;>  '    tC;,  AjAnVP0L    1kB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
S  S  X                                              sX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
's;<0- -e t~~~~~ANKAN(i
,; d,, z _ v iS -HUA






IBRD 27779
MO0 N GO0L IA                                                                                                                              M.1900  h  h-adanes..
-\_.--   __N 5'I LAONINGE                                  10900n                                                          denomsnaoOns aod any
REP.                             .1  ~~~~~~~       ~~ping  ~ 0Y0nohroonhnso'
ts.M~~~~~~~~~~  EPS                       1k                                        T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he World BakG,oap
'v -     j    ND  XONGGOI    f  fd ,8T e v  OF                  t1                                                                            5 ao y t any   teo etory
aNHA +g,;giHhf tt4OREA   .         '           , t  I  Jinsuoguonf                                 ar any  ndunn
(GANS 7- "IAHENN >  JAt) SIJ
<-Lr9- SS  s-'-  -,<\t   >+w          /                                         'X,Houliu
SICHUAN   ;_-        iz "ZhfJl?    Eost
A1   dv rv  '.UNANg  t, A2 -J:fs   
1    lZHOUl           (FUJIANJJ                   t                                                   ,T Barslr
fYUNNAN      '                      4'''  -r - I4A_
GUANGXI ,GUANGD,6                                                                         _
BUV~A .(-'iels_z         s          o.5.1.                                                                    TONGCHUAN
.nSlAO~~~~~~~~~E8PE5   ""k ~~~~~~~~~~SHI
)O EM REPZg.--_    H
THAIIANtD ..   -       -                                       t                                        iHIL; NES  _  \  / huankou
CHINA
*   Archaeobogicat                                                                       35'00-
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL'                                              Area               '
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                ''fYoz ouyao
SANYUAN - TONGCHUAN HIGHWAY
Proposed Project:                                                                                                                  TO Pucherg
Sanyuan - Tongchuan Highway                                      Yaoxian                                                          &-s Hnngcrrg
-     New Bridges to be Constructed > 100 Meters
0      Interchanges
Previous Highway Project                                       \Yihe
National Roads
Secondary Roads                                                             -/
Railroads
N1 '., \ |   \x    '        /                           Ta Ha,hon-g
X-rny,                                          i                                    Fuping
(Way_'
34040                                                                                                                                                        44'
- \ .--~~~~~ } - = ~~~~ > ... a~~~nliong  
Yunyang- - .,-
Ta rin Xtna
. .7               / - /   v   _   --X    _ -  . ;' 1
TO Qian Xr-- -         -   -    \~-                    tteoig   '~  ,      f 
HO
34020      r,                                                                                                           H _  e~ \  8>  '   zlV   1   1,0   20
34'20 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
KILOMETERS
Ta Luin          n-
--- 7  '   Hu Xian   >/                                                                \   \
JUNE 1996









IMAO INGU
Report No:        15700
Type: ICR



