Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7167-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 12, 1988
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III, Asia Regional Office
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1988)
Currency name          =           Renminbi
Currency unit          =           Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
US$1.00                            Y y 3.70
US$0.27                =           Y 1.0
US$1.0 million         =           Y 3.7 million
US$270,270             =           Y 1.0 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) 2                    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)          =        10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =         0.4 square miles (mi )
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2   =         2.47 acIes (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu                         =        666.7 m  = 0.0667 ha
1 kilogram (kg)              =        2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =        2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAAC   -   Civil Aviation Administration of China
ERR    -   Economic Rate of Return
GJVAI  -   Gross output value of agriculture and industry
HPDI   -   Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI   -   Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
ITC    -   International Tendering Corporation
MOC    -   Ministry of Communications
O-D    -   Origin-Destination
pcu    -   pass3nger car unit
PTD    -   Provincial Transport Department
SAA    -   State Auditing Aeministration
SFYP   -   Seventh Five-Year Plan
SHAB   -   Shaanxi Highway Administration Bureau
SPTD   -   Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department
SSDI   -   Shaanxi Survey and Design Institute
VOC    -   Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd    -   Vehicle per day



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary............................................              iv
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Economic Setting ...                          ...................................... so.  1
B.  Traffic ..*.* ...............  ......... .o................. ..........  1
C.  Transport System ............................ .......     ...... *      2
D.  Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s ...............            4
E.  Previous Bank-Financed Projects in Transport Sector ........            5
II. SHAANXI HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
A.  Network.........................                                        6
B.  Traffic Growth and Characteristics..........                            7
C.  The Vehicle Flteet                 ........8
D .  The Trucking Industryd...                                              8
E.  Highway Admtinistrationr.ot......o..*... .o...o..........O              9
F.  Planning, Budgeting and Financinga......n g..&.o..........              9
C.  Engineering, Construction and Maintenance.ooo......                    10
H.   Road Safety ......................00.*..                              11
I.  Staff Trainingr...i.nn8......                   .......                11
J. Highway Development: Objectives for the Seventh Five-Year
Development Plan........ l...........                                  12
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Formulation and Preparation.........................    13
B.  Project Objectives .........................................*..        13
C.  Detailed Features. ....  ......  .......................               13
D.  Cost E     stim            a te s ......4 #*..oo4s*o......             17
E.  Finning.....             a       nc.......i          ng. .. e.o.o...   19
F.  Imlentaio....oos.*o...*noo .......eo* ..                               19
Go  Procurement .......... *. .* .. .  . .....   .......... **..O    20
H.  Disbursements..............                       ....* .... ....      22
I.  Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring....,#................               23
J.  Environmental Effects.f..o            ...            .....s..*    23
This report was prepared by B. P. Kennedy (Engineer) and S. Teravaninthorn
(Economist), who appraised the project. B.P. Kennedy is the Task Manager for
the Project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATtON
A*                                                                     vriw................................. 25
B.  Transport in the Existing Sanyuan-Tongchuan Corridor*......         25
C.  Traffic on the Existing Road without the Project ...........    26
D.  Projected Traffic on the New Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway.....    26
E.  Economic Evaluation ......................................    27
F.  Overall Evaluation and Risks ...............................        28
C.  Improvement and Repair of Rural Roads .......................    28
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........................        31
TABLES
1.1   China:  Investment in the Transport Sector.....................     32
1.2   China:  Freight Traffic, 1952, 1977 and 1979-85................    33
1.3   China:  Passenger Traffic, 1952, 1977 and 1979-85 ..............    34
1.4   China:  Highway Design Standards in China.*....o...............    35
1.5   China:  Motor Vehicles Manufactured and Imported, 1980-85 ......    36
1.6   China:  Total Transport Handled by Public and Social Trucks
1978-85* ... ........................ ....... oo.* .........    37
2.1   Shaanxi:  Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1985........ .    38
2.2   Shaanxi:  Vehicle Fleet, 1985..................................         39
2.3   Shaanxi:  Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks, 1985....    40
2.4   Shaanxi:  Road Manintenance Revenue and Expenditures, 1980-397..    41
2.5   Shaanxi:  Capital Construction Investment in Transport Sector
1985 ..... o...* ...............................           42
3.1   Estimated Disbursement Schedule ................. -...090 ...... .  .*..  43
4.1   Sanyuan-Tongchuan Road:  Economic Data of its Service Area,
1985 .....     ..             ....o..    ..                        44
4.2   Traffic on the Existing Roads Without the New Sanyuan-Tongchuan
Highway ............. ..................................           45
4.3   Projected Traffic on the New Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway ..*.....    46
4.4   Traffic Capacity of the New Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway in
Passenger Car Equivalent Units (PCUs).         .....................  48
4.5   Economic Cost Conversion Factors, 1988 .........................        49
4.6   Vehicle Operating Costs Summary (1988) .........................        50
4.7   Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis ..............        51
4.8   Demographic and Transport Network Data for Shangluo and
Ankang Prefectures, 1986.......   ........                         52
4.9   Economic Analysis of Rural Roads ...............................        53



- iii -
ANNEXES
1.  Terms of Reference'for Shaanxi Highway Data Bank Preparation, Pavement
Evaluation and Strengthening Program and Maintenance Management Study
2. Project Implementation Schedule
3. Project Monitoring Indices
4.  SelccEed Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. Relationship Between Central and Provincial Transport Department
(IBRD 26423)
2. Organization of the Provincial Transport Department and the Highway
Administration Bureau (41642)
MAPS
1.  Shaanxi Provincial Transport Network - IBRD 20255
2. Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway - IBRD 20268



-iv -
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:        Shaanxi Province
Amount:              US$50.0 million Bank loan
Terms:               20 years including 5 years of grace at Bank's standard
variable interest rate
On-lending Rates:   4X for highway construction
7Z for rural roads
Project Objectives
and Description:  The proposed new Sauyuan-Tongchuan highway would provide
urgently needed expanded capacity in the heavily developed
corridor between the provincial capital, Xi'an, and the
important coal mining and industrial center of Tong-
chuan. Specific policy, institutional and technological
objectives to be addressed by the project would cover the
development of poorer rural areas by improving the rural
road network, improved road planning, preparation of a
pavement strengthening and maintenance management program
and staff training. The project would include: (a) con-
struction of a new 67-km highway between Sanyuan and
Tongchuan; (b) consulting services to help train SPTD
staff in the supervision and quality control of the
highway construction; (c) expansion, improvement and
repair of the rural road network in southern Shaanxi;
(d) preparation of a program for pavement strengthening,
betterment and maintenance; (e) assistance to SPTD in
improved road planning, by preparing a computerized Road
Data Bank; and (f) staff training.
Project Benefits    The principal benefits accruing to users of the new high-
and Risks:        way and rural roads would be savings in vehicle operating
costs and accident reduction. There are no major risk
foreseen in the project. Although a section of the new
highway passes through the area of archaeological import-
ance and could possibly delay completion of project, to
minimize the risk, the Bank and SPTD agree to use force
account on this section to allow more flexibility in
rescheduling construction work and to use resources more
efficiently in the event of archaeological finds. It was
also agreed that a representative from the Archaeological
Institute would be assigned on site.



Local     Foreign    Total
Project Costs:                                           - (US$ million)  -----
Highway construction             26.9      26.6        53.5
Rural roads improvement
and repair works               22.2      14.8        37.0
Consulting services
and training                    0.5       2.0         2.5
Equipment                          -         1.2        1.2
Base Cost                        49.6      44.6        94.2
Physical contingencies            4.9       4.5         9.4
Price contingencies               2.6        2.3        4.9
Subtotal                   57.1       51.4       108.5
Land acquisition                  9.3         -         9.3
Total Project Costs /a      66.4       51.4       117.8
Financing Plan:
IBRD                               -       50.0        50.0
Provincial Government            53.0        1.3       54.3
Central Government               13.5         -        13.5
Total Financing Plan        66.5       51.3       117.8
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank Group FY      1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994    1995
t.nnual              5.0  10.0   20.0    5.0    5.0    4.0    1.0
Cumulative           5.0  15.0   35.0   40.0   45.0   49.0    50.0
Economic Rate of Return:       28Z for the Sanyian-Tongchuan Highway and 16X to
25% for the rural roads.
/a   Import duties and taxes are not included in project costs, as the project
is exempted from import duties and taxes.



CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.1       A national policy emphasizing self-sufficiency and the development
of heavy industry has been in place throughout the three decades following the
foundation of the People's Repub'ic in 1949. This policy emphasis has left
China with the legacy of a "trans,,ort-intensive" economy and has created heavy
demands for transportation. These demands stem from the country's very high
volume of long-haul traffic in bulk materials and fuels, especially coal. The
government's recent policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy as the two most critical bottlenecks in the e._onomy. The government
has made considerable efforts to reduce waste within the transport system, for
example by eliminating cross hauling of the same commodity and increasing the
processing of raw materials before shipment. However, the current transport
problem in China arises not only from the need for long distance shipment of
coal and other raw materials, but also from the extraordinarily rapid growth
which has resulted from the accompanying structural reforms of China's economy
in recent years. In the past China did not provide sufficient investment to
meet the level of demand for transport in such a large country. Between 1953
and 1985, the transport sector received some Y 154 billion, or 14X of the
total national investment for capital construction (Table 1.1). This percen-
tage appears somewhat low compared to other countries at a similar stage of
development. Furtherwmre, the investments were made without giving due con-
sideration to the most economical mode of transport and this resulted in a
rather unbalanced transport system. Improving efficiency through investment
in and modernization of China's transportation infrastructure, institutions
and services will continue to be a top priority in the development program for
many years to come. The Government is addressing these problems and the
Master Plan for China calls for the construction of about 1.2 million km of
paved road by the year 2000 indicating the high priority assigned to improving
road transport and the substantial economic returns expected from road
investment.
B. Traffic
1.2       Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1986 reached 1,383
billion ton-km, a 8% increase over 1985; this represents an average growth
rate of about 8.5% p.a. since 1979, substantially higher than the growth of
domestic product. Conservative projections based on these data and expected
growth in the economy as a whole indicate that domestic freight traffic could
approach 3 trillion ton-km by the year 2000. The modal split has been moving
toward a better balanced, with the road share of freight transport increasing
from 9': in 1980 to 14% in 1986. This trend is expected to intensify with
diversification and the continuing rapid growth of short-haul traffic.
Indeed, between 1980 and 1986, the growth of road freight transport reached an
average of 17% p.a., which is substantially higher than the growth rate
recorded by any other mode (Table 1.2).



1.3       Pas -nger Traffic.  Passenger traffic reached 459 billion passenger-
km (p-km) in 0986, a 7% increase over 1985.  This reflects an average annual
growth rate of over 12% since 1980 (Table 1.3). Growth in passenger traffic
might have been even more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited
capacity of the transport sector to offer more passenger services. The modal
split has changed more rapidly than for freight; traffic, and the roads now
handle about 37% of the traffic cor.mpared to less than 10% in 1952 and 28% in
1977. Nevertheless, the mobility of the Chinese people is still much lower
than that of people in countries with comparable income levels. By the turn
of the century, passenger traffic may well reach about 1.5 trillion p-km per
year, or about three and a half times current levels.
C. Transport Systems
1.4       The railway system consists of 52,000 operational route-km, of which
about 9,700 km are double- or multiple-track and about 3,100 km are electri-
fied. The network is served by 11,100 locomotives, 291,000 freight cars and
19,600 passenger coaches. At prE&ent, 68% of tractive power is still steam,
28% diesel and 4% electric. Freight traffic density averages 15 million tons
per route-km--the second highest freight density in the world after the Soviet
Union and 50% higher than the freight density in the United States. Freight
traffic reached 876 billion ton-km in 1986. Growth in freight traffic. which
has averaged 7.3% p.a. since 1980, reached 8% in 1986. Three quarters of all
freight traffic involves 10 commodities including coal, iron and steel, grain,
timber and construction materials. Despite some possible rationalization in
the transport of natural resources and heavy industrial outputs, transport
demand for the major commodities is expected to grow rapidly. Passenger
traffic in 1986 was 258.7 billion p-km; this density of 4.6 million passengers
per route-km ranks second in the world, after India. Although the share of
rail in total traffic is decreasing, the volume of rail traffic will continue
to grow, requiring massive investments in line capacity, motive power and
rolling stock wall into the future. The system now absorbs about 50% of the
investment allocated to the transport sector for capital construction (Table
1.1).
1.5       The port and waterway system is composed of about 109,000 km of
navigable inland waterways and over 18,000 km of coastal lines. Domestic
coastal shipping--which offers an alternative to north-south railway--has
grown in recenc years but remains underdeveloped. Foreign trade shipping grew
at an average of about 6% p.a. between 1979 and 1984, 22% p.a. between 1984
and 1985 and 12% p.a. between 1985 and 1986, reflecting the economic opening
up of China to foreign trade. As a result, ports have become congested. Most
of the 15 major coastal ports are being renovated or expanded, with particular
emphasis on the construction of container and bulk terminals, the latter
mainly for coal. In 1986, 22% of the investment for capital construction in
transport went to this subsector (Table 1.1).
1.6       The civil aviation system consisted of about 216,765 domestic route-
km (and 107,575 international route-km) in 1986, an over threefold increase
since 1976. This network, relatively underdeveloped for the size of China, is
served by about 400 aircraft, most of which are light or medium in size and
seat fewer than 100 passengers. The network has only 97 airports, of which no
more than 15 can serve the larger modern jet aircraft. It was not until the
early 1980s that the civil aviation system received attention; its allocation



for investment in capital construction reached Y 2.0 billion in 198' for the
first time, after maintaining a level of Y 100 - 300 million for a long period
of time. The system's share of total transport investment increased from
about 3% in 1980 to 13% in 1985 and to about 8% in 1986 (Table 1.1). However,
the present development emphasizes only passenger transport. Passenger
traffic density was 67,350 passengers per route-km in 1986 compared to about
2,300 tons of freight tratfic per route-km. Despite poor facilities, the
system's capacities are utilized to the fullest extent. Since 1980 the
national airline, Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC), has purchased
50 large passenger aircraft such as Boeings 737, 747, 757, and 767, the
Airbus, the MD-82 and the TU-154. The introduction into service of such a
large number of aircraft will place tremendous pressure on ground facilities
including runways, terminals and navigation control. The Bank may be in a
position to make useful contributions in this area.
1.7       The highway system totalled about 962,800 km in 1986 and, although
still relatively underdeveloped, it is the sixth largest in the world.
Investment in the highway subsector has been rather modest, at 16% of total
investment in the transport sector. Since the early 1980s, the network has
borne an increasing share of traffic (paras. 1.2 and 1.3). The network is,
for the purposes of design and technical specifications, classified by the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) as Expressway and Classes I, II, III and IV
for various traffic capacities (Table 1.4). Table 1.4 also shows the
geometric standards now being used. For administrative purposes roads are
classified as trunk, county, rural and special purpose.
1.8       The rapid growth of highway traffic stems not only from the
country's rapid economic growth but also from other factors such as the
national policy of shifting short-haul rail transport to road, the expansion
of the service sector and rural industries and the increased processing of
primary materials before shipping.  Furthermore, with the increasing foreign
trade, growth in road traffic will be concentrated in transport co fidors
serving the main ports and their hinterlands and, with the containerization of
the higher value commodities, much of this foreign trade is expected to go by
road. The new economic activities have generated traffic far in excess of
what the existing facilities can accommodate. Congestion on roads, resulting
primarily from the mix of slow-moving nonmotorized and motorized traffic, is a
serious problem and road pavements are showing increasing signs of distress.
1.9      The vehicle fleet, totaling some 4.0 million units in 1986, consists
mostly of trucks, which outnumber passenger buses by three to one and cars by
nine to one. Most trucks are of four-ton capacity with outmoded designs and
low fuel efficiency. Most of the trucks and buses are gasoline powered.
These vehicles were manufactured domestically and the production of trucks has
been barely sufficient to repiace the retired vehicles, let alone meat the
fast growing demand. It was not until the early 1980s that a large number of
modern vehicles was imported (Table 1.5) and joint-ventures with foreign
manufacturers were started to manufacture trucks. Production in 1985 was
about 440,000 units which, for the firs, time, exceeded the replacement demand
by 12%, assuming a ten-year life. This production contributed to the creation
of a new fleet.
1.10      The trucking industry consists of "public trucks" operated by
trucking companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway



- 4 -
authorities, and "social" or "own-account" trucks operated by factories, any
cooperative organization and, recently, private individuals. The relaxation
of trucking regulations in the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other factories and cooperatives and thus promoted competition
between public and own-account trucks. In fact, own-account trucks absorbed
most of the traffic growth over the past few years which occurred more in the
short-haul traffic (Tables 1.6). The structure of the industry is undergoing
major changes spurred by the increased demand for road transport and market
forces are playing a major important role in shaping the industry in future.
1.11      The administration of the highway network in the provinces is done
by the Provincial Transport Departments (PTDs) through their Bureaus of High-
ways. Administratively, the PTDs come under the jurisdiction of the
provincial government.  The Ministry of Communication (MOC) provides general
policy guidance and support to tne PTDs through its nationwide policies and
regulations, specifying design and construction standards. MOC also provides
specialized manpower for planning and design and construction equipment for
major provincial civil works if needed. However, the PTDs are financially
independent of MOC and carry out all road planning, construction, maintenancc
and administration of roads and waterways in the provinces. Only for some
large projects considered for national construction investment in which MOC
would share part of the financial burden. Chart 1 shows the organizational
relationship between MOC and the PTDs.
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.12      The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic developments, and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. By
t..e end of the Seventh Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (1986-90), freight traffic is
projected to be 45% 'iigher and passenger traffic 60% higher than in 1985. A
greater share of the increase would fail on road transport, especially in
rural areas where increased agricultural and small scale industrial production
have created an urgent demand for bett*_r farm-to-market transport services.
Road transport also will be called upon to meet a growing share of the demand
for passenger transportation from the increasingly mobile population.  A
formal comprehensive sector investment plan does not yet exist, mainly because
of the multiplicity of ministries and agencies dealing with transport, the de-
centralization of responsibilities for transport to the provinces, and the
magnitude of the task of preparing such a plan in a country as large as
China. There are plans to improve the coordination of transport planning at
central government level by strengthening the transport planning function in
the State Planning Commission; this would greatly facilitate the preparation
of an overall transport investment plan. Meanwhile, the government, with the
assistance of the Bank Group, is concentrating on some strategic studies and
on a "transport corridor" approach whereby the focus of investment effort is
on removing the most blatant transport bottlenecks in what the government has
identified as high priority corridors (para 1.15). In order to facilitate the
flow of foreign trade, the top priority is given to corridors linking ports
and industrial development zones or among induitrial zones themse ves. This
strategy is well integrated with macro-economi' objectives.
1.13      Government policy for the highway subsector in the 1980s focuses on
the simultaneous implementation of programs for road network expansion to meet
the increasing demand and for rehabilitation of existing substandard roads.



- 5 -
This differs from the policy of the past 30 years which emphasized road length
and left China with a legacy of substandard roads that cannot sustain the
recent increase in traffic. The Bank Group would support the twin objectives
by assisting the process of network expansion while helping to direct
development policy toward greater quality improvements. This support is
provided within the framework of longer-term objectives for improving
efficiency and cost-effectiveness in meeting the increasing transport
demand. These longer-term objectives address specific policy, institutional
and technological areas such as: improved economic evaluation techniques for
the selection of road investments; improved intermodal planning; efficient
transport tariff, road user taxation and road financing system; increased
capacity to relieve road congestion; improved road safety; developing a
methodology for road pavement evaluation; increased efficiency in the road
transport industry; improved efficiency in construction through continued
support of Government's policy of competitive bidding and development of the
local contracting industry; staff training; modernization of highway design
and updating and improvement cf construction and material specifications; and
support of highway research. Some studies related to these objectives are
being carried out under ongoing projects and the Bank Group has begun discuss-
ions with the Central and Provincial governr.ents on the potential for using
sector lending as a means of achieving some of these objectives.
1.14      There is severe congestion in many segments of the railway network;
capacity is saturated on several key lines and an acute shortage of wagons
exists. The delivery of energy supplies (i.e., coal) is severely con-
strained. The policy is to invest in rail line electrification and new line
construction; however, it will take years to alleviate the bottlenecks between
major mining areas and coastal cities. For civil aviation, CAAC plans to
build some 20 medium to large airports over the period 1987 to 1990 and to
enlarge and rebuild about 40 small airports. Furthermore, Beijing
International Airport, Guangzhou Baiyun Airport, and Shanghai Hongqiao Airport
will be expanded and equipped with advanced navigation equipment; when
finished, capacity would be double. For the port and waterways system, the
policy is to expand substantially its facilities to relieve the growing
hindrance to external trade caused by inadequate berth capacity and container
handling capacity. On intermodal transport, inadequate road and rail links
between ports and hinterland hamper the efficient turnaround of arriving cargo
in a number of ports. The policy is to integrate transportation networks, in
particular for coal and for import/export trade, container-handling facili-
ties, intermodal freight, and passenger transport centers. To facilitate
these developments, the Plan envisions significant institutional changes in
the sector, including extending the policy of separating the regulatory
functions of government from the operating and financial functions of enter-
prises and delegating greater authority to the enterprises (recently begun in
the ports subsector). Continuing adjustments in charges for transportation
services are expected to assist funding of investments in the sector from
internally generated resources.
E. Previous Bank-Financed Projects in Transport Sector
1.15      The Bank supports the government's objectives and initiatives for
development of the transportation sector with both financial and technical
assistance. The Bank is financing two highway projects (Loan 2539/Credit 1594
and Loan 2811/Credit 1792); one involves the construction or improvement of



-6-
national and rural roads, the other involves the construction of the first
expressway in one of the busiest transport corridors in China, between
Beijing, Tianjin and the new port of Xingang at Tanggu. The projects also
support highway research to achieve some of the objectives for the highway
subsector outlined above (para. 1.13) by: supporting highway research,
improving the planning of the road network expansion and maintenance by
preparing a Road Data Bank, preparing a suitable methodology for evaluating
road pavements, .eeking low-cost solutions to road congestion, improving the
collection and analysis of traffic accident statistics to identify the mea-
sures needed to reduce traffic accidents and, most important of all, identify-
ing how best to finance the expansion, improvement and rehabilitation of the
highway network. This work is laying a solid foundation for the development
of a sound strategy for deciding on the investment allocations in the sub-
sector between main highways and rural roads and among construction,
upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance.
1.16      Physical progress on the First Highway Project (Loan 2539/Credit
1594) is on schedule and work has started on four major civil works contracts
recently awarded under the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project (Loan
2811/Credit 1792). Three railway projects (Loans 2394, 2540, and 2678/Credit
1680) have assisted with the expansion of capacity on key routes and the manu-
facture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and signaling equipment. A
railway operations costing system has been introduced on a pilot basis as a
result of a joint Bank/China collaborative effort. Four port projects (Loans
2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2907-CHA and 2877-CHA) would finance the expansion of
berths and berth handling capacity in four of the fourteen major ports in
China, and included components to improve port operations and studies focusing
on intermodal links to the hinterland and post operating costing systems. In
addition to these subsector-specific operations, the Bank has recently begun
to assist the government in the conduct of strategic studies of a wider
nature; a review of the utilization of inland water transport was completed
and translated into Chinese for distribution and discussion among the Chinese
authorities, another study on comprehensive transportation for Guangdong
Province has been completed and a comprehensive transport study for the
greater Shanghai area including relevant parts of Jiangsu and Zhejiang
provinces is about to start. All pcojects are proceeding satisfactorily.
II. SHAANXI HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
A. Network
2.1       By the end of 1985, the transport network in Shaanxi province
consisted of 1,850 route-km of railways, 688 km of navigable inland waterways,
25,581 route-km of civil aviation air routes, and 37,668 km of highways. The
province's major navigable river, the Wei River, runs west to east across the
center of the province and maerges with the Huang He (Yellow River) at the
b"rder of Shaanxi, Shanxi and Henan province. Because Shaanxi is an inland
p jvince with short river estuaries, prospects for developing inland waterways
are rather limited; its transport development has to rely heavily on highways
and railways (Table 2.1). The 37,668 km of total road network ranks ninth in
the country; its network density (per land area) ranks thirteenth. However,
its road network is not spatially well-distributed in the province; the
highway network is concentrated along the central belt of the province with



- 7 -
moderate density in northern Shaanxi, but with a very low density of network
in the southern Shaanxi Area. Most of the network was built in the 1960s when
economic activities were slow and the roads were not designed to accommodate
the rapidly increasing traffic volumes of today with their higher ratio of
heavier vehicles. Of the 37,668 km of road at the end of 1986, there were no
roads of Class I standard, only 496 km (1.3%) of Class II, and 7,186 km
(19.1%) of Class III standard. The Xi'an-Sanyuan Highway (34 km) being
financed under China's first Highway Project (Ln. 2359-CHA/Cr. 1594-CHA), and
its continuation from Sanyuan to Tongchuan (67 km), which is proposed for
financing under this project, would provide the first 86 km length of Class I
roads in Shaanxi province and expand the Class II road system to 511 km.
About 36% of the network (13,580 km) has asphaltic concrete or bituminous
pavement for a surface, and less than 50% of the network (18,377 km) consists
of all-weather roads. The technical classification of the network according
to its condition is shown below:
ROAD NETWORK IN SHAANXI PROVINCE (1986)
Classi-         Length    % of total
fication         (km)      network      Pavement standard        Quality
Class I              0          0       -
Class II           496         1.3      Cement concrete,         All-weather road
Bituminous penetra-    (only 50 km
tion macadam            concrete roads)
Class III        7,186        19.1      Bituminous-coated        All-weather road
macadam
Class IV        20,675       54.9       Bituminous-lime          5,900 km paved
treatment or            road, 10,695 km
gravel surface          all weather
roads, and the
rest impassable
after heavy
rain
Unclassified    9,311        24.7       Improved earth           Impassable after
surface                  rain
Total     37,668       100.0
B. Traffic Growth and Characteristics
2.2       Between 1980 and 1985, road freight and passenger traffic in Shaanxi
province grew at about 14Z and 18% per annum, respectively. These growth
rates on highways were significantly higher than the growth rates on railways--
9Z and liZ, for freight and passenger traffic (see table below).



- 8 -
TRAFFIC GROWTH IN SHAANXI PROVINCE (1978-1985)
Freight traffic                   Passenger traffic
(million ton-km)                (million passenger-km)
Highways       Railways             Highways      Railways
1978            1,039          16,558               1,295          4,756
1980            1,054          17,957               1,623          6,288
1985            1,994          28,184               3,756         10,666
p.a. growth
rates (1980-
1985)          13.6             9.4                18.3           11.2
Although the modal split has relied heavily on railways, especially for
freight traffic, the share of highways gradually has increased in recent
years. On some major transport corridors in the province such as from Xian to
Lingtong, Xian to Xianyang, and the project corridor road from Xian to
Tongchuan, the growth rate for road freight traffic between 1980 and 1985 was
about 18%.
2.3       In 1978, Shaanxi, like other provinces in China, set up a thorough
traffic counting system for part of its major trunk roads. The counts, which
include nonmotorized vehicles, are made on a 24-hour basis and, depending on
how heavily trafficked the route, the counts are made either three times a
month or every day. However, this intensive and routine counting system *s
seldom augmented with origin-destination surveys which would be useful for
obtaining more accurate information on traffic flows for highway planning and
design.
C. The Vehicle Fleet
2.4       The vehicle fleet in Shaanxi is relatively small when measured in
terms of number of trucks per km of road network and number of buses per
thousand residents. The truck fleet is about 30% smaller than the average for
the country, whereas the bus fleet is about average (Table 2.2). Although the
number of social trucks has increased rapidly in recent years, the supply of
trucks is still unable to satisfy the growing demand. Some of the excess
demand for short-haul transport therefore has been met through the use of farm
tractors. Although this provides a temporary solution to the truck shortage,
the use of tractors on the roads impedes faster-moving traffic and creates
congestion. MOC are seeking low-cost solutions for this congestion through a
study being carried out under the first Highway Project, Loan 2394-CHA/Credit
1594-CHA (para. 1.13).
D. The Trucking Industry
2.5       Competition between public and social trucks in Shaanxi province has
increased in recent years. There is one public trucking company directly
under the provincial transport department and at least one public trucking



company in each county and township; the latter report directly to the county
transport bureaus concerhed. The official trucking tariff ranges from Y 0.18-
0.20 per ton-km, depending on the type of commodity being hauled and the road
condition. With this regulated tariff, the public trucking companies have not
dope well financially and were unable to expand their business to meet the
rapidly increasing demand; however, the expansion of own-account/social truck-
ing companies indicates that the regulated tariff provides adequate profit.
The public trucking companies have problems of operational efficiency caused
by high management and overhead costs, many old, inefficient gasoline-powered
trucks, and the state regulatory requirements which give priority to hauling
certain kinds of nonprofitable commodities such as coal. In general, the
average hauling distance of public trucks is longer than that of social trucks
(Table 2.3).
2.6       Although rapid economic growth and the relaxation of trucking
regulations (para. 1.10) are revitalizing the industry and making it more
responsive to market demands, there are still several areas that could be
improved to make the industry more efficient. The introduction of trucks of
appropriate size with modern designs and energy-efficient engines should be
accelerated. Modern truck fleet management techniques are urgently needed.
The responsiveness to market demand is expected to continue to spur efficiency
gains in the trucking industry; there are signs that the problems outlined
above are being addressed.
E. Highway Administration
2.7       Chart 2 shows the organization of the Shaanxi Provincial Transport
Department (SPTD) and the Shaanxi Highway Administration Bureau (SHAB)--one of
its ten bureaus, institutes and corporations. The SPTD reports directly to
the provincial government and acts as the administrative arm of the provincial
government for planning, budgeting and financing of the transport sector in
the province. However, the SPTD conforms to the professional, techrnical and
general transport policy guidances issued by MOC. Similarly, administratively
the SHAB reports directly to SPTD but receives professional and technical
guidaace from the Highway Bureau of MOC. The organization of SPTD and SHAB
are sound and has adequate and competent staff to carry out its functions
although training is needed in certain areas (para. 2.15). The main function
of the SHAB is to construct and maintain all national and provincial roads in
the province. It has direct control over 10 Prefectural Highway Bureaus, 98
County,Highway divisions (one division per county), and about 930 road main-
tenance teams. On average, there is one road maintenance group for every
approximately 10 km of classified road network.
F. Planning, Budgeting and Financing
2.8       Planning.  The SPTD has overall responsibility for planning all road
investments and for maintaining the highway network in the province. However,
the prefecture, county and village level highway administration units have
considerable autonomy in planning smaller road investments which, as a
formality, are subject to the approval of the SPTD. There are three levels of
administration for the road network in Shaanxi province: (a) SPTD administers
9,722 km of provincial and trunk roads and a small number of important county
roads; (b) county highway bureaus administer the county and rural roads; and
(c) village highway units administer the village roads. The three administra-



- 10 -
tion groups prepare investment plans for the highway network under their
jurisdiction and submit their plans to the planning division of SPTD by
September of each year for the next year's plan. Before the end of N,vember,
SPTD approves the next year's plan for each county or local authority
concerned. Similarly, the five-year road developmlent plan (paras. 2.17 -
2.18) is prepared by SPTD using inputs from lower level administrative groups
revised to conform to national or provincial guidelines for development policy
during the plan period. To improve the planning of the development,
construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of the provincial road network, a
start would be made under the proposed project in the preparation of a
computerized road management information system or road data bank as well as
in the preparation of road pavement strengthening and maintenance management
programs.
2.9       Budgeting.  As in almost all sectors in China, the SPTD planning
division always adopts a balanced-budget policy. The proposed highway invest-
ment is always balanced against the revenue earmarked for highway development,
i.e., the amount of investment approved for each year is closely related to
the amount of road maintenance revenue expected for the same year. In October
of each year and before SPTD approves next year's projects, the current year's
planned investments are reviewed against actual investments and revenue
receipts, and adjustments are made where needed.
2.10      Financing.  Since 1985, state regulation has allowed the use of up
to 25% of road maintenance revenues for new road construction. However, in
order to ensure that adequate funds were available for maintenance, the road
maintenance fee was increased. The SPTD determines the fee to be collected
from different types of vehicles in the province; and through the provincial
government it reports to the State Council for approval before the fee is made
effective. At present, the road maintenance fee in Shaanxi province amounts
to 14.52 of total revenue for public trucks and Y 104 per month per one
payload ton for social trucks.  (The road i-aintenance fee for farm tractors is
collected by local authorities, not by SPTD, at Y 40 per ton per month.) Of
total road maintenance expenditures, some 51% was for new road construction
and upgrading, 14% was for periodic maintenance, and 11% for routine
maintenance. About 24% was expended on administration and overhead. Table
2.4 shows the road maintenance revenue and expenditure in Shaanxi province
between 1980 and 1987.
G. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
2.11      Road and bridge projects are engineered by the planning and design
institutes at the provincial, prefecture and county levels. As in the case of
the proposed road project, major road projects are designed by the Shaanxi
Planning, S'wrvey and Design Institute (SPSDI) in Xi'an assisted by the MOC's
Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) and the MOC's First Survey and
Design Institute at Xi'an. Bridge and tunnel designs are also made by the
SPSDI with assistance where needed from the MOC First or Second Survey and
Design Institute, the Railway Design Institutes, or other specialized design
institutes. At SPC's request, the MOC's HPDI will assist in economic evalua-
tion; this is now becoming routine for major road and bridge investments. The
MOC's Highway Scientific Research Institute (HSRI) is available to advise on
any geotechnical or construction material problems. Fnreign consultants have
not been used for highway design ii Shaanxi since the local institutes are



- 11 -
professionally competent and have adequate manpower for the work. However,
since contracting, particularly contracting for civil works through inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB), is still relatively new in Shaanxi, some
foreign consultants were used to assist in preparing bid documents and
organizing construction supervision for the Xian-Sanyuan highway being
constructed under Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA. These consultants would be
needed for similar services on this project.
2.12      In the past, road and bridge construction normally has been done as
a force account operation by construction bureaus attached to the provincial,
prefecture or country governments. Since the State Planning Commission
directed that all major civil works be awarded after competitive bidding, a
domestic contracting industry has been growing rapidly. Many of the larger
provincial construction bureaus are being reorganized into financially
independent contracting companies. As such, they are expected to apply for
prequalification, either individually or as joint ventures with foreign
contractors, to bid on the road and bridge contracts to be financed under the
project.
2.13      The national and provincial roads are well maintained by the SPTD
but maintenance costs are rising rapidly. Maintenance costs for asphalt paved
roads presently range between Y 3,000 and Y 3,500 per kilometer, due to the
poor quality of the roads and the recent, rapid increase in traffic. Mainte-
nance of the county roads is effectively organized and carried out, with
assigned groups of maintenance crew throughout the province looking after
roads, mainly through labor-intensive operations. Under the project both
periodic and routine maintenance planning and operations would be improved by
the setting up of the road data bank and the preparation of a pavement
strengthening and maintenance management program.
H. Road Safety
2.14      Although statistics on road traffic accidents are neither comprehen-
sive nor reliable, it is evident that the situation regarding road safety is
far from satisfactory in Shaanxi province. The poor quality and low geometric
standards of most roads combined with the mix of slow and fast moving traffic
are not conducive to road safety. Under the first Highway Project, the Bank
is supporting the HSRI's research program, which includes a study on road
safety. This study covers: (a) a review of the existing system of reporting,
recording and analyzing road accident statistics; (b) recommendations on
improved data collection, recording and analysis of road traffic accidents;
and (c) identification of a program for reducing road traffic accidents. The
final report on the study is now available and the findings of the HSRI's
Research Study are being discussed with the Bank. Agreement was reached that
Shaanxi Province would prepare and analyze the available road accident data,
using the HSRI computer program and prepare recommendation for reducing road
accident; the analysis and recommendations would be sent to the Bank for
review by December 31, 1990.
I. Staff Training
2.15      Employees of the provincial and county PTDs are generally competent,
but many have not been exposed to new technology and therefore often use
outmoded work methods and equipment. Following the difficult period of the



- 12 -
late 1960s and early 1970s, technical manpower planning and assessment of
related training needs for the provincial highway subsector have only recently
been resumed. The SPTD is in the process of preparing a manpower plan.
Strengthening and expanding formal education and ongoing training programs to
upgrade and increase the number of technical staff is expected to be needed in
order to meet the demand for trained personnel. Meanwhile, some urgently
needed training has been identified and will be supported under the proposed
project (paras. 3.12 and 3.13).
J. Highway Development: Objectives for the Seventh
Five-Year Development Plan
2.16      Shaanxi province has had a relatively small investment program in
the transport sector. Compared with Shandong province, Shaanxi province is
26Z larger in total land area but expends only 15% of the total investment for
capital construction (Table 2.5). This has contributed to the lack of
transportation infrastructure which is a major bottleneck to the development
of the provincial economy. However, the share of investment in Shaanxi
province has been more equally distributed among each mode of transport than
in Shandong province. For example, Shaanxi's investment in railways has been
only 2.3 times higher than its investment in highways, compared to 12 times
higher in the case of Shandong province.
2.17      The policy objectives of Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department
(SPTD) in the highway subsector during the Seventh Five-Year Plan closely
follow the objectives set forth in the national plan (paras. 1.12-1.13). Road
network capacity would be expanded simultaneously in the corridors leading to
major industrial and mining areas and in poor rural areas. By 1990, 3,000 km
of new roads would be completed and 12,500 km of roads would be upgraded. Of
the latter, about 1,000 km would be paved. During the Plan period five major
highway projects would be constructed: (a) Xi'an-Lingtong, (b) Xi'an-
Xingping, (c) Xi'an-Tongchuan, (d) a railway feeder road system in northern
Shaanxi, and (e) a rural road development program in southern Shaanxi.
2.18      The 23.8-km Xi'an-Lingtong stretch of road  would be the first
expressway in the province. The 59-km Xi'an-Xingping stretch would be a
Class I highway. The Xi'an-Tongchuan road would be a 100 km Class I high-
way. The Bank is financing a 34 km length of this highway under the first
highway project (Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA); the remaining 67 km would be
financed under the proposed project. The Xi'an-Tongchuan highway would be the
first full standard Class I road in the province. The railway feeder road
system would be located in the northern Shaanxi coal mining area. The rural
road development program, intended for the poorer southern Shaanxi area, would
be financed under the proposed project. In addition to the road network
expansion, the existing paved roads would be strengthened and improved, and
the management of the highway system would be modernized through the
introduction of improved road planning, computerized design, improved specifi-
cations for construction materials and construction methods, modern contract-
ing and supervision procedures, improved paved road maintenance management
systems, and training of provincial staff in a variety of civil engineering
fields, financial accounting and cost control, and equipment management and
maintenance. The Bank is discussing with the Central and Shaanxi provincial
governments the potential for using sector lending to the province as a more
effective means of achieving the objectives in the subsector.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Preparation
3.1       The main objectives for highway development in China in the 1980s
are to provide adequate capacity in the heavily congested corridors, to
upgrade and improve the existing network, and to expand the network in remote
rural areas. The proposed Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway in Shaanxi province is
part of the plan for investing in high standard roads. It would be a
continuation of the Xi'an-Sanyuan highway being financed under Loan 2539-
CHA/Credit 1594-CHA, the first highway project in China. The rural road
development in Shaannan (southern Shaanxi Province), the poorest part of the
province, serves the objective of expanding the rural road network to help the
rural poor. The project was prepared by SPTD through the Provincial Survey
and Design Institute, with the assistance of the MOC's First Survey and Design
Institute in Xi'an for the feasibility study and detailed design.
B. Project Objectives
3.2       The proposed Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway would contribute to the
urgently needed expansion of capacity in the heavily developed corridor
between the provincial capital, Xi'an, and the important coal mining and
industrial center of Tongchuan. Specific policy, institutional and
technological objectives to be addressed by the project would include:
(a) the introduction of improved road planning techniques through
preparation of a computerized Road Data Bank;
(b) the introduction of technology to evaluate existing paved roads and
to prepare a pavement strengthening and maintenance management
program;
(c) staff training;
(d) continued assistance to modernize design, construction, and
materials specifications and contract documentation;
(e) support for the provincial government's objective of promoting
economic development in the poorer rural areas; and
(f) road safety.
C. Detailed Features
3.3       To accomplish these objectives, the project would include:
(a) construction of a new 67-km highway (about 51 km of Class 1 and 16
km of Class II) connecting Sanyuan with the city of Tongchuan;
(b) consulting services to help train SPTD staff in the supervision and
quality control of the highway construction;



- 14 -
(c) expansion and improvement of the rural road network in southern
Shaanxi;
(d) evaluation of the existing road pavements to prepare a program for
road strengthening, betterment and maintenance;
(e) assistance to SPTD in improved road planning, including the
establishment of a computerized Road Data Bank; and
(f) staff training.
3.4       Construction of the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway.  The existing road,
National Road 210, is the major road connecting the fertile grain- and cotton-
producing central Shaanxi plain with Tongchuan, a major mining and industrial
center for the production of coal, cement and construction materials. The
area is served by a comprehensive network of railways and low standard roads.
Freight volume on the highways in the area reached 9.7 million tons in 1985
and passenger volume reached 3.2 million. On National Road 210 between
Sanyuan and Tongchuan, the freight volumed was 4.6 million tons and passenger
volume was 3.3 million. By 1990, Tongchuan will be producing about 15 million
tons of coal and 3.5 million tons of cement. Since the possibilities for
further expanding rail capacity are lir:ited, large volumes of freight and
passengers will have to move by road. Already in 1985, traffic on the exist-
ing road had reached 4,110 vehicles per day, far exceeding capacity. Conges-
tion on the road is a serious problem; the accident rate, already high, is
rising rapidly and road pavements are deteriorating and in need of costly
maintenance.
3.5       A new 66.8 km highway would be built to a four-lane divided Class I
standard between Xinzhuang and Chuankou (51.3 km) and to a two-lane Class II
standard from Chuankou to Houliu (15.5 km), just north of Tongchuan city.
This new highway would replace the existing 73.2 km road and would be an
extension of the new 34-km Class I highway from Xi'an to Sanyuan (Xinzhuang)
being built under the first Highway Project. When both roads are completed,
the new road connection between Xi'an and Tongchuan will be 23 km shorter than
the existing road and 58 km shorter than the railway link. The new alignment
passes through an area changing fom the alluvial plain through the hilly and
rolling terrain of the terraces to the northern loess plateau. The first
32 km to Yaoxian passes through flat and open terrain and mesas and the
remaining 34.8 km passes through hilly terrain with narrow valleys. The soil
type is loess, with good permeability. The climate is temperate and has an
annual mean temperature of 13C. Annual rainfall is between 500 mm and 550 mm
and the water table is quite deep. The earthquake intensity is 8, and the
area is considered a heavy earthquake damage zone for highways, for structural
design purposes. The road would serve only motorized traffic, and would have
eight major bridges, six grade-separated intersections with railways, arterial
and other main roads--three of which would be interchanges. The old road
would be used for slow moving non-motorized traffic.
3.6       The preliminary engineering and feasibility study for the expressway
was satisfactorily completed by SPTD and has been reviewed by the Bank. The
detailed design was prepared by the Shaanxi Provincial Survey and Design



- 15 -
Institute in Xi'an. The geometric design standards for the highway are
appropriate; they are shown in Table 1.4.
3.7       Supervision of Construction.  Since contracting for civil works is a
relatively new procedure in China, the country has little experience in super-
vising road construction contracts. SPTD engineers received some training in
supervisory work under the first Highway Project, but there is still a
shortage of experienced local engineers. To ensure that works on the highway
are carried out in full compliance with specifications and that good quality
control is exercised on site, a team of engineers from SPTD and experienced
foreign consultants would be set up to supervise the works. The consultants
would help establish the systems ar.d procedures for the supervisory work and
train the SPTD engineers, both formally and on-the-job, to carry out the
supervision of construction. Terms of reference for the consulting services
(Annex 1) were agreed at negotiations.
Rural Roads
3.8       Improvement.  Shangluo and Ankang Prefectures in southern Shaanxi
province contain some of the poorest areas in the province; per capita income
there is as low as Y 164 p.a. The lack of roads in these prefectures is a
serious impediment to economic growth, since there are no alternative modes of
transport. SPTD has prepared a program for expanding and rehabilitating the
network in the area. This program includes the following:
(a) construction and rehabilitation of about 295 km of rural roads;
(b) construction of about 1,013 linear meters of large or medium
bridges; and
(c) construction of about 960 small bridges and culverts.
3.9       Emergency Flood Repair.  The problems associated with the lack of
roads in Shangluo prefecture were compounded by the heavy rains and floods
which severely damaged the few existing roads and bridges during August and
September of 1986. The two most severely damaged roads extend from Zehe to
Manchuan and from Shangxian to Shagao. As a result of this damage, about 174
km of rural roads needs to be repaired, rebuilt or rehabilitated, all to Class
III standard. The Zehe to Manchuan road requires about 254 linear meters of
new bridgework; and the Shangxianto Shagao road requires about 324 linear
meters of bridgework. The Zehe-Manchuan road (73 km) originally extends from
the Shanyang county seat to the southern border of Shaanxi to connecc with
Hubei province and serves 23 counties and villages with about 93,000
residents. The influence area of this road includes fertile agriculture land
which produced 13,700 tons of food grains in 1987. Furthermore, the area has
abundant forests, produces tung oil and has animal husbandry. The Shangxian-
Shagao road (101 km) extends from the Zhen'an county seat and passes the
Zhashui county seat to Shagao and serves 111 counties and villages with 72,500
residents. The road connects with National road 210 leading to Xian. Its
influence area covers 2,440 sq km, produces food grains and includes signifi-
cant area of tea plantation. Cottage industries ate relatively well developed
in this area. After the flood damage, the transpor. of products has been a
major problem. The total estimated cost for repairing the two roads is about
Y 45.0 million, or US$12.2 million. The SPTD has asked the Bank Group to help



- 16 -
in implementing an emergency repair and rehabilitation program. It was agreed
with the SPTD that work would start immediately after the rehabilitation
program was defined and agreed at appraisal and that retroactive financing in
an amount of about US$5.0 million equivalent would be provided under the
project.
3.10      Evaluation of Existing Road Pavements and Preparation of a
Strengthening and Maintenance Management Program. The recent large increases
in road traffic have created problems pertaining to the structural soundness
of existing road pavements. Most of these roads were designed in the 1950s,
1960s and early 1970s for a much lower level of traffic. The pavements have
now exceeded their design life and are showing signs of distress, and pavement
maintenance costs are rising rapidly. These road pavements are urgently in
need of strengthening before they are damaged beyond repair and require
complete and costly reconstruction, The SPTD proposes to use part of the
proceeds of the Bank loan to carry out an evaluation of the existing road
pavements in orler to determine their bearing capacity and residual life in
relation to present and estimated future traffic. A five-year strengthening
and paved road maintenance management program would be prepared to identify
the resources of manpower, materials, equinment and funds needed to implement
the program. The project wculd provide expertise and equipment to use in
training SPTD staff in the methodology of pavement evaluation. The terms 3f
reference for the road pavement evaluation and strengthening and maintenance
management program are shown in Annex 2, and were agreed at negotiations.
3.11      Road Planning.  The basic data needed for the planning, development,
design, construction and maintenance of the road system is not available in a
readily accessible format in Shaanxi province. Under the project, a start
would be made in setting up a computerized road data bank. The data bank
would include a road condition inventory comprising road l9ngths, type,
classification, function, geometrics, and pavement type, thickness and bearing
capacity, as well as traffic volumes, material sources and quantities, etc.
In developing the data system, SPTD wold receive expert help and computer
hardware and software. Terms of Reference for starting up the data collection
for the road data bank are shown in Anlaex 2 and were agreed at negotiations.
3.12      Staff Training.  In addition to training directly related to the
supervision of construction and evaluation of road pavements, the proposed
training program is designed to upgrade and modernize the skills of technical
staff in the various fields concerned with the highway subsector. This
training program essentially would represent a continuation of the training
program initiated under the first Highway Project. The program has a twofold
approach, to:
(a) improve the proficiency of engineers and other staff by sending selected
personnel abroad to attend academic and practical training courses es
well as relevant international conferences; and
(b) strengthen the capacity of the SPTD highway institutes and technical
schools by:
(i) purchasing laboratory, computer and photogrammetry equipment,
training aids, and essential technical books and publications;
and



- 17 -
(ii) inviting foreign academic experts for short visits to help
upgrade curricula.
3.13      In continuing the program, about ten officials from the SPTD and
highway bureaus would be trained abroad. This training would cover the areas
of transportation planning, soils and materials engineering, transport
economics, financial management and accounting, highway maintenance and
equipment management, construction management and supervision including
quality control, new constructicn material technology, and technical
interpretation. It is expected that, on their return, the trainees would play
a major role in developing and managing the Shaanxi road system and in
transfering updated technology to other highway staff. During negotiacions
agreement was reached with the provincial government on the implementation
schedule for the training program.
3.14      Consulting Services.  A total of about 48 man-months of foreign
consulting expertise and 1,200 man-months of local supervision engineer are
expected to be needed under the proposed project. Local expertise available
in the various institutes in the sector would be used as much as possible, and
foreign consulting help would only be sought for those areas of advanced
technology where local expertise is lacking.  These areas include the use of
advanced instrumentation for measuring road deflection and deterioration, the
analysis of traffic flows, transport economics and other very specialized
fields. Construction of the highway would be supervised by a team of local
staff and experienced foreign consultants. About 9 man-years of foreign con-
sulting expertise is expected to be needed to help set up and implement the
organizational systems and procedures for on-site quality control and to train
the MOC engineers in supervision. About 15 man-months of foreign consulting
expertise is expected to be needed for preparing the road data bank and
evaluating the existing road pavements.
D. Cost Estimates
3.15      The total project cost is estimated at about Y 460.67 million,
or US$117.9 million equivalent, includ ng physical and price contingencies and
land acquisition costs. This includes a foreign exchange component of
US$51.4 million, or about 44% of the total cost. The project costs are shown
below. All base costs are estimated in January 1988 prices. Physical contin-
gencies are calculated at 10% of base cost estimates and applied to all
components. Price contingencies have been calculated for foreign and local
costs. When expressed in US dollars, the escalation for foreign and local
costs is based on expected international annual price escalation factors of 3%
from 1988 to 1990, and 4.0% thereafter. When expressed in Yuan, the escala-
tion is based on expected domestic price escalation factors of 8.0% in 1988,
7.0% in 1989 and 6.5% thereafter. None of the cost estimates include taxes
and duties since all materials and equipment to be used in the project would
be exempt from taxes and duties.



- 18 -
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign   Total   cost (X)
---- (Y million) ----       ---- (USS million) -----
Sanyuan-Tongchuan highway
Contract construction (49 km)   69.56   78.44  148.00          18.80    21.20    40.00   53.0
Force account (18 km)             30.00   20.00   50.00         8.10     5.40    13.50   40.0
Subtotal                       99.56   98.44  198.00       26.90    26.60    53.50   50.0
Consultant service for
supervision                        1.76    1.76    3.52        0.48      0.48      0.96   50.0
Equipment and expertise for
road data bank                     0.00    4.44    4.44         0.00      1.20     1.20  100.0
Equipment and expertise for
road paved evaluation              0.00    1.00    1.00         0.00     0.28      0.28  100.0
Rural roads
Emergency program to
repair flood damage             27.00   18.00   45.00        7.30      4.87    12.17   40.0
Improvement                       55.20   36.80   92.00        14.93     9.94    24.87   40.0
Training
Staff                              0.00    1.48    1.48        0.00      0.40      0.40  100.0
Equipment, etc.                    0.00    3.00    3.00        0.00      0.82      0.82  100.0
Base Cost                       183.52  164.92  348.44       49.61    44.59    94.20   47.3
Physical contingencies (10%)        18.35   16.49   34.84         4.96     4.46      9.42   47.3
Price contingencies                 22.55   20.29   42.84         2.58     2.32      4.90   47.3
Subtotal                        224.42  201.70  426.12       57.15    51.37   108.52   47.3
Land acquisition cost                34.55    0.00   34.55        9.34     0.00      9.34
Total Project Cost              258.97  201.70  460.67       66.49    51.37   117.86   44.0
Notes: (1) Exchange rate: US$1 = Y 3.70.
(2) All figures are rounded.
3.16      The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated
from detailed designs and costed at unit prices. The unit prices for the work
items were computed based on MOC's standard manuals for labor and equipment
productivity and the related, annually-updated costs combined with the current
costs of materials. The unit prices were checked against the unit prices
recently received in bids for major road works financed under the first and
second Highway Projects.
3.17      The base cost per kilometer of the dual four-lane section of the new
highway, excluding contingencies and land acquisition costs, is just under
US$1.0 million. The cost per kilometer of the two-lane section of the highway
is about US$0.5 million. Both of these costs are acceptable. The foreign



- 19 -
exchange component is estimated at about 53Z for foreign contractors and about
40% for domestic force account work.
3.18      The cost of equipment is based on prices quoted by manufacturers
outside China. Cost estimates for the highway maintenance, operation and
monitoring equipment are based on manufactuerer's current prices. The list of
equipment to be financed under the project was agreed at negotiation.
E-, Financing
3.19      The  Bank loan of US$50.0 million would finance about 49% of
the cost of the project. The loan would be on-lent to Shaanxi Province under
the Borrower's current procedures for on-lending to province for highway
construction. Under this project, an interest of 4% will be charged for
amounts on-lent for highway construction and 7% for rural roads. The Central
and Provincial Government would provide about US$61.0 million to cover the
remaining capital costs of the project. The financing plan for the of project
is shown in the table below:
FINANCING PLAN
Provincial      Central
Government    Government      Bank Group       Total
----------------- (US$ million) ------------------
Construction of the San
Yuan Tongchuan Highway    13.81            11.73           27.96         53.50
Rural roads                  25.73             -             11.31         37.04
Supervision                   0.48             -              0.48          0.96
Equipment                      -               -              0.28          0.28
Road data bank                 -               -              1.20          1.20
Training                       -               -              1.22          1.22
Contingencies                 4.99            1.78            7.55         14.32
Land acquisition
costs                       9.34             -               -            9.34
Total                    54.35           13.51           50.00       117.86
F.  Implementation
3.20      SPTD would have overall responsibility for implementing all
components of the project. The highway would be constructed under unit-priced
contracts for civil works. The detailed design and the bid documents are now
being completed by the Provincial Survey and Design Institute. Prequali-
fication of contractors would begin in April 1988. The procedures for
acquiring land for the right-of-way already have started; the ground surveys
have been completed and agreements with the   llages and production units will
be finalized before the start of construction. Construction of the highway is



- 20 -
expected to begin in early 1989 and be completed by the end of 1991. The
works would be supervised by a joint SPTD/consulting team of engineers.
3.21      The SPTD would carry out the Rural Roads Improvement and Emergency
Flood Repair Program through the provincial and county construction teams who
have adequate resources of equipment and staff for this work and who have
extensive experience in tl.ese kinds of construction or improvement works. The
construction teams have started work on the emergency flood repair; this work
should be completed by end 1991. Improvement work on rural roads would start
in early 1989 and be completed by end 1992. SPTD would also be responsible
for implementing the road pavement evaluation, preparing the pavement
strengthening and maintenance management program through its Bureau of
Highways, and implementing t' training component in accordance with a program
acceptable to the Bank Group. The road pavement evaluation would start in
mid-1989 and be completed by 1990, when the program for road pavement
strengthening would be reviewed with the  C.! Group.  Training would start in
January 1989 and continue through the remani-ig project period. The SPTD
would be responsible for preparation of t-ae r-lad data bank; this work would be
coordinated by MOC's Highway Planning and Dbeign Institute which has been
assigned overall responsibility for standardizing the road data bank format.
3.22      SPTD would be responsible for selecting consultants for setting up
the supervision and quality control of civil works and for setting up the
training of SPTD staff in this work. The experts are expected to begin work
in December 1988 in order to help establish the supervisory organization
before the start of civil works. The foreign experts needed for the road
pavement evaluation and road data bank would be recruited as needed after June
1989. The project would be completed by December 31, 1993. Loan/credit
closing is expected to take place by December 31, 1994.
3.23      An implementation schedule for the proposed project (Annex 3) was
agreed upon with the Government during negotiations.
G. Procurement
3.24      Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table.



- 21 -
Procurement method
ICB        LCB        Other          Total
--------------- (USS million) ----------------
Highway Civil Works                 46.2                    15.5         61.7
(24.2)                  (7.8)        (32.0)
Consultant Services                               -          1.0          1.0
(1.0)        (1.0)
Rural Roads                           -           -        43.0          43.0
(14.2)       (14.2)
Equipment                            1.4          -          1.0          2.4
(1.4)                  (1.0)         (2.4)
Training                                          -          0.4          0.4
(0.4)        (0.4)
Land Acquisition                      -           -          9.3          9.3
Total                           48.6          -        69.2         117.8
(25.6)                 (24.4)        (50.0)
Note:     Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts financed by the Bank
Group. All figures include estimated physical and price
contingencies and are rounded.
3.25      The unit-priced contracts for the construction of the highway
(US$46.2 million) under the project would be awarded after international
competitive bidding (ICB) by prequalified firms, in accordance with Bank
guidelines. ICB wold be organized by the International Tendering Corporation
(ITC) of the China National Technical Import Corporation, in conjunction with
SPTD. About 18 km of highway from Km 84 + 100 to Km 102 + 00 passes through
an area of great historical and archaeological significance.  The archaeologi-
cal sites discovered consist of pottery kilns and workshops, dating back to
the Han Dynasty (206 B.C - 220 A.D.), continuing through the most prosperous
and sophisticated Tang Dynasty period (618 A.D. - 917 A.D.) and ending at the
Yuan Dynasty (1279 A.D. - 1363 A.D.).  Experts consider the finds to have been
a major pottery-producing center supplying pottery to the imperial courts and
others.  The site is still being investigated.  Therefore, the construction
must be carefully controlled in order to avoid damaging important relics. As
a result, it was agreed that the civil works on thic section, estimated to
cost US$15.5 million, would not be suitable for contract worK and that the
works would be done by force account. SPTD and SHAB have the *ompetent staff
and resources to carry out force account work for this section. It was also
agreed at negotiations that a representative from the Chinese Archaeological
Institute would be on site full-time during the construction of this section
in order to monitor construction activities and avoid damage to relics. The



- 22 -
construction, improvement and rehabilitation of the rural roads and bridges
(US$28.6 million) and emergency flood repair wotk (US$14.4 million) would be
done by provincial force account construction teams; the small scope and
scattered locations of these works make them unsuitable for contracting.
Priced bills of quantities for the rural road program would be agreed at
negotiations and these would be used for interim progress payments.
3.26      Equipment (US$2.4 million) for road pavement evaluation and the road
data bank would be procured through ICB. However, all items or groups of
items estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount for all contracts not to exceed US$1.0 million, may be procured on the
basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Bank's Guidelines, and in accordance zith
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The ITC, in conjunction with SPTD, would
be responsible for the procurement of all equipment.
3.27      Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and manufacturers would
be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of 7.5% for
civil works and 15% for goods, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is
lower. Since procurement by competitive bidding in the highway subsector is
still relatively new in China, all ICB contracts for civil works and equipment
estimated to cost more than US$500,000 would be subject to prior review and
agreement of procurement documentation by the Bank Group.
H. Disbursements
3.28      The Loan would be disbursed to finance the following:
(a)  53% of the total cost of the highway civil works by contract after
1CB;
(b)  53% of the total cost of highway civil works by force account;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment or 100%
of local expenditures (es-factory) for locally manufactured equip-
ment and 75% of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
and
(d) 100% of the costs of consulting services and overseas training of
staff.
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with an initial
deposit in US$3.0 million, the estimated average expenditures for a four-month
period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the
Bank Group. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted quarterly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50% of
its initial deposit, whichever comes first. Retroactive financing in an
amount of US$5.0 million equivalent would be made against expenditures for the
emergency construction and rehabilitation of the rural roads damaged by
floods; only work done after the appraisal date of January 31, 1988 would be
eligible for retroactive financing. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
given in Table 3.1, which also shows the China transport projects disbursement
profile; the rate of disbursements under the proposed project is estimated to
follow the rate of disbursement shown in the profile. Although the



- 23 -
international competitive bidding procurement method for highways is still
rather new in China and could cause problems, any delays are expected to be
minimized by appropriate Bank Group supervision and assistance during the
aarly stage of the project.
3.29      Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for the civil
works and against priced bills of quantities for the major work items for the
force account work. Interim certification of civil works completed and costed
at unit rates in the contracts and bills of quantities would be done by the
joint SPTD/consulting supervisory team and certified by the SPTD. Disburse-
ments for training overseas would made against the actual costs of travel,
subsistence and tuition or training fees. Disbursements against statements of
expenditure would be needed for the training component and for goods or
services costing less than US$200,000. Documents supporting the expenditure
statements would not be submitted to the Bank, but instead would be retained
by the HOC in Beijing and made available for review by the Bank supervision
mission.
I. Auditing,:Reporting and Monitoring
3.30      A State Auditing Administration (SAA) has been established to
conduct detailed audits of the government agency accounts. Assurances were
obtained from the Provincial Government during negotiations that the accounts
of project-related expenditures would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank Group and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank
Group for review within six months of the close of each Chinese fiscal year.
The Bank Group currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
3.31      Project progress reports would be submitted quarterly to the Bank
Group by SPTD, based on the project monitoring indices shown in Annex 4. A
Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to the Bank Group no
later than six months after the loan/credit closing date.
J. Environmental Effects
3.32      The construction works for the highway, rural roads and bridges
should cause no significant environmental problems. There is very little
danger of soil erosion since the drainage systems along the highway and rural
roads would be properly paved. The design and specifications require that
temporary and permanent culverts be provided for all irrigation and drainage
canals to ensure that farm activities are not disrupted. Contrary to harming
it, the new highway would improve the environment in many respects. Alignment
would be improved through the use of grade-separated junctions and by separat-
ing faster-moving vehicular traffic from the slower-moving bicycles, tractors
and animal-drawn carts. This separation would reduce the existing congestion
and improve road safety. Congestion in or near the cities and towns along the
existing road would be curtailed, substantially reducing noise and air
pollution. No forest, public parks or gardens, scenic areas or wetlands would
be affected by the new road. However, the new highway would pass through an
area of important archaeological finds (see para. 3.35 below).
3.33      The acquisition of land for construction projects is done under the
"Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State Construction" promulgated by
the State Council on May 14, 1982 and as further clarified by a document



- 24 -
entitled "Elucidation of the Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State
Construction" issued by the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery and the Ministry of Urban and Rural
Construction and Environmental Protection on June 9, 1983.  These regulations
detail the procedures for acquiring land, the range of compensation to be paid
for cultivated land and resettlement, the use of any surplus agricultural
labor resulting from the acquisition, and the environmental protection
measures to be taken during construction. Compensation for cultivated land is
based on the average annual output for three years prior to acquisition,
multiplied by the State prices, the above-quota price (based on actual
proportion in the production unit), or a negotiated price for products which
have no fixed price. The settlement allowance per capita is two to three
times the average annual output value per mu of land; and it is based on the
average area of cultivated land occupied by each farmer. The total amount for
cultivated land compensation and resettlement allowance is stipulated not to
exceed twenty times the annual output value of the acquired land. Surplus
agricultural laborers are absorbed in other agricultural production units or
employed elsewhere in factories, etc. The regulations appear fair and
equitable and are strictly enforced, with penalties set for any deviation. As
stated in para. 3.20, the procedures for acquiring land for the new highway
are under way and would be completed before construction starts.
3.34      About 4,130 mu (275 ha) of land would be acquired for the highway,
comprising 3,290 mu of cultivated land, 118 mu of vegetable land and the
remaining 720 mu for temporary works. Compensation would be Y 2,360 per mu
of cultivated land in Tongchuan and Yao counties and Y 4,000 per mu of
cultivated land in San Yuan county. Vegetable land would cost about Y 2,000
per mu and temporarily required land about Y 640 per mu. About 902 families
would need resettlement; these include 375 agricultural families, 177 urban
families and some 350 mostly unmarried workers. A detailed resettlement plan
has been prepared which gives details on the new locations and support
services to be provided. At negotiations assurances were obtained that
resettlement would be carried out according to a plan agreed with to the
Bank. A detail plan of resettlement is available in the project file.
3.35      As stated in para. 3.25, about 18 km of the new highway runs through
an area of archaeological significance. Realignment was considered, but even
where it would be possible it would not avoid the area in question, which is
quite extensive. in order to control the work and prevent damage, the civil
works in this area would be done by the force account construction team of
SPTD instead of by contract; SPTD is accustomed to such problems and is
experienced in operating in such areas. To ensure that all precautions would
be taken it was agreed to have a representative of the Chinese Archaelogical
Office on site to monitor the construction team's activities.
3.36      A detailed report on the environmental impact of the new highway has
been prepared by the SPTD in cooperation with the Provincial Environmental
Protection Agency and the Provincial Archaelogical Department; a copy is in
the project file.



- 25 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Overview
4.1       In recent years, Shaanxi province has experienced very rapid
economic growth in all sectors--industrial, agricultural, and services. This
growth in turn has created a growing demand for both long- and short-distance
road transport. The strategy for developing the road transport system to
accommodate this increase in demand is: (a) to improve road capacity in the
major intercity transport corridor; (b) to strengthen existing road pavements
and improve their maintenance; and (c) to develop and expand the rural road
network in order to allow rural residents to exploit resources which require
the use of low-cost motorized transport. Urier the proposed project, the Bank
would support this strategy by financing: (a) the construction and improve-
ment of a major highway in one of the most important intercity transport
corridors; (b) the preparation of a paved road strengthening and maintenance
management program; and (c) the improvement and rehabilitation of rural roads.
B. Transport in the Existing Sanyuan-Tongchuan Corridor
4.2       The Sanyuan-Tongchuan corridor provides access to one of the most
highly developed, economically important and densely populated areas in the
province. Eleven percent of the provincial population in this area produces
40X of the provincial gross output value of industry (Table 4.1). Industrial
development in the influence area of the road (Sanyuan, Yaoxian and Tongchuan)
has been very rapid in recent years, and the gross output value of industry
has been increasing at about 7Z a year since 1980. Yaoxian is an area of
great historical and archaeological interest; its potential as a tourist
attraction could be realized with better road access. Tongchuan is a major
coal mining and cement-producing center and the major energy resource base and
source of construction material in the province. Improved road transport
around it would promote economic development of the central Shaanxi plain.
4.3       The corridor is now served by a network of poor quality highways and
feeder roads.  These roads are built to such a low standard that they no
longer can accommodate tLe volume of traffic they carry either in terms of
capacity or pavement strength.  As a result, road transportation costs are
very high.  The main road connection between Sanyuan and Tongchuan is a 73.2-
km road built to Class III and Class II standards. The pavement width of this
road varies froni 6 to 8 meters. According to the MOC capacity design
standard, this road should accommodate up to 2,000 vehicles per day (vpd).
However, the existing traffic has now reached over 3,500 vpd--well beyond the
road's capacity. Furthermore, the existing feeder roads were not built to
carry the existing volume of traffic. They are mainly Class IV standard
roads, with a few sections of Class III standard.
4.4       There is one 88-km single track railway connection in this
corridor. However, the present level of demand has far exceeded the railway's
capacity and there are no plans to increase capacity in the near future.
Furthermore, the distance between Sanyuan and Tongchuan on this rail line is
15 km longer than the existing highway and would be 23 km longer than the
proposed new highway. The rail line branches from the Gansu-Qinghai line and



- 26 -
extends from Xianyang to Sanyuan, making an eastward detour to Fuping, and
then continuing westward to Yaoxian and north to Tongchuan. Freight traffic
on the section between Sanyuan and Tongchuan reached 11.3 million tons in
1985, with coal accounting for 872 and cement for 7%. Passenger traffic in
that same year reached 1.3 million passenger trips. Extending the railway
even between the Yaoxian and Tongchuan section would not be feasible; it would
be more costly than a highway alternative because of the rolling terrain and
narrow mountain valleys.
C. Traffic on the Existing Roads Without the Project
4.5       According to the statistics compiled by SPTD's traffic count station
at Yaoxian, road traffic on this corridor grew very rapidly, at an average
rate of 17% a year between 1980 and 1985. Heavy truck traffic grew most
rapidly, at 55% a year. Trucks comprisea about 84% of the 4,112 vpd in
1985. This very high proportion of trucks (Table 4.2) combined with the high
volume of non-motorized and slow-moving traffic creates serious congestion on
this low standard Class III road. Because of this congestion and the many at-
grade intersections with the railways and local roads, on some sections of the
road the travel speed is only 15-20 kph. The number of road accidents is also
increasing rapidly; between 1981 and 1985 traffic accidents increased by an
average of 14% each year. In May 1986, SPTD carried out origin-destination
(O-D) traffic surveys for the existing road at Yaoxian and Huangbao. The
results of the survey showed that there were almost equal volumes of traffic
on the two sections of road between Sanyuan and Yaoxian and between Yaoxian an
Chuankou (close to 4,000 vpd on each). Traffic fell to about 1,400 vpd on the
Chuankou-Houliu section of the road (Table 4.2). Assuming growth rates of 6%
for small trucks, 10-12% for medium size and large trucks, and 12-14% for
passenger buses, traffic in the corridor would reach 7,000 rpd in 1992 and
16,000 rpd in the year 2000 (Table 4.2). Given this traffic forecast and the
current and expected economic activity in the influence area of the road
(paras 4.1-4.4), it is clear that additional road capacity is needed now.
D. Projected Traffic on the New Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
4.6       The projected traffic on the new highway would come from three main
sources: (a) traffic diverted from the existing road; (b) traffic diverted
from the railway; and (c) traffic generated by the improved road capacity and
travel speed.
4.7       Traffic Diverted from the Existing Road.  The O-D surveys conducted
in May 1986 show that most of the motorized traffic on the existing road is
through traffic, e.g., 80% from Yaoxian to Sanyuan and beyond, 77% from
Yaoxian to Chuankou, and about 20% from Chuankou to Houliu.  Because the new
highway would be shorter than the old one and would have a superior riding
quality all through-traffic would shift to the new road.  Therefore the
estimated traffic that would divert to the new highway in 1992, the opening
year, would be about 4,600-5,700 vpd on the Class I sections between the
Sanyuan and Chuankou, and about 520 vpd on the Class II section between
Chaunkou to Houliu. By the year 2000, diverted traffic on the new highway
would reach about 10,000-13,000 vpd (Table 4.3).
4.8       Traffic Diverted from Railway.  Although the new highway linking
Sanyuan to Tongchuan would be 23 km shorter than the railway, no significant



- 27 -
diversion of railway freight traffic to the new highway is expected in the
early years. Ninety-four percent of the freight traffic on railway comes from
coal and cement (para. 4.3) and for these commodities railway transport has a
comparative cost advantage. The remaining freight traffic consists of
miscellaneous short-distance traffic or less-than-car-load (LCL) traffic. On
the other hand, 70% of the rail passenger traffic is expected to move to the
new highway because of the significant savings in distance and time. This
diversion would release some railway capacity to meet the growing demand for
freight traffic. This available rail capacity would be fully used by 1995
when the railway capacity would again be saturated. Therefore after 1995, the
railway LCL and other shorter distance freight traffic would start moving to
the new highway (Table 4.3).
4.9       Generated Traffic.  With a higher standard road, improved pavement
widths and geometrics and increased capacity, travel speeds would be increased
and travel time reduced on both the new and existing road. The congestion and
the number of accidents on the existing road would be substantially reduced.
As travel time is reduced, more trips would be undertaken with the same
vehicles, so these improved road transport conditions would generate traffic
beyond the normal growth rate. An increase of about 10% to 20% of normal
traffic is expected to be generated as a result of improveI roads, adding at
least 600 vpd in 1992 (Table 4.3).                           a
4.10      The total traffic expected on the new road in 1992 would be about
5,300-6,600 vpd. With the high proportion of trucks, the equivalent
passenger-car-units (PCUs) would be about 14,000-18,000 per day on the Class I
section and 2,000 PCU on the Class II section. Therefore, a Class I four-lane
divided highway would be needed between Sanyuan-Chuankou, and a Class II two-
lane highway would be needed between the Chuankou-Houliu section. The new
highway would provide adequate capacity up to the year 2000 (Table 4.4).
E. Economic Evaluation
4.11      Economic Costs.  All input and output elements for evaluating the
new highway's costs and benefits were obtained using January 1988 financial
costs and applying conversion factors to reflect their economic costs
(Table 4.5). For traded goods, the c.i.f. prices of imports and f.o.b. prices
of exports were used in estimating the cost of materials and equipment, making
adjustments for the cost of inland transportation. The official exchange
rates were used to convert foreign currencies to Yuan. The adjusted economic
cost of the project is Y 241.8 million. The road requires routine maintenance
every year and periodic maintenance or repaving every ten years. The routine
maintenance cost is estimated at Y 2,000/km for a four-lane paved road and Y
1,000/km for a two-lane road. Periodic maintenance is estimated to be 10% of
the construction cost.
4.12      Economic Benefits.  The principal benefits of the new highway would
take the form of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC). Of the Y 39.0 mil-
lion in total benefits in 1992, the opening year, 86% would accrue from the
VOC savings of normal traffic. This savings would result from the shorter
distance, the improvement in riding quality of the new road, and reduction in
congestion on existing roads. The remaining 14% is attributed to: 11% for
newly generated traffic, 2% for traffic diverted from railways, and 1% for
accident reduction. The estimate of benefits is based on the anticipated



- 28 -
traffic volume (Table 4.3) and the VOCs estimated for different types of
vehicles on the different roads (Table 4.6). Detailed estimates are available
in the project file. The benefits would build up rapidly after the project is
completed since the existing transport corridor is now very congested.
Benefits have been assumed to be constant after the year 2012, when project
facilities would be used to their full capacity.
F. Overall Evaluation and Risks
4.13      Comparing benefits to costs yields an economic rate of return (ERR)
of approximately 281 (Table 4.7). The main risk would be the delayed benefits
and possible cost increases associated with delays in completion of the high-
way. The project seeks to deal with this risk by providing early assistance
in procurement and training of supervisory construction engineers. The
sensitivity analysis below shows that the project still would remain viable
even if costs exceeded estimates by 20% or if net benefits were lower by 20%
or even with the combination of the two. The benefits from other relatively
small investments in staff training, studies and improved road planning are
not quantifiable. However, the present lack of planning personnel, lack of
exposure to new technology, and absence of reliable data and data collection
systems for road planning all suggest that such investments would have very
high rates of return.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
ERR (X)
Sanyuan-   Yaoxian   Chuankou-  Project
Yaoxiau    Chuankou    Houliu    total
Best Estimates                             27.8       29.8       20.1       27.5
Risk Analysis
- 20% cost increase                        25.5      27.3        18.5       25.2
- 20% benefit reduction                    24.9       26.7       18.0       22.3
- 20% cost increase and 20% reduction
of benefit                             22.6      24.3        16.0      24.7
G. Improvement and Repair of Rural Roads
4.14      The rural road development program is planned for Shangluo and
Ankang prefectures in the southern, poorest part of Shaanxi province where the
GOVAI per capita was only Y 163 in 1986. This represents about 20% of the
provincial average, or about 14% of the country's average. Poverty here,
particularly in Shangluo, is primarily caused by the lack of a good transport
network, since only 16% of the existing road network has all-weather surfacing
(Table 4.8). Furthermore, since there are no railways or inland waterways
serving the area, the highway network is the only mode of transportaiton.
4.15      The program includes the improvement of two roads in Shangluo
prefecture and one road in Ankang prefecture. The roads in Shangluo extend



- 29 -
from Shangxian to Zhashui and from Shangnan to Jiepaiya. The road in Ankang
extends from Pingli to Zhenping. The condition of all three roads is very
poor with most sections being below Class TV standard and some sections being
only farm trails. Less than 50% of the traffic on the existing roads comes
from motorized vehicles; the rest comes from tractors and animal-drawn
carts. Accordingly, road transport costs (including time value) in the area
are very high, ranging between 0.26-0.35 yuan per ton-km. With improved
roads, the road transport cost would fall to between 0.2-0.25 yuan per ton-
km. The benefits from improving the rural roads would accrue from cost
savings on normal and generated traffic. Background information on and an
economic analysis of the three rural roads are given below.
The Shangxian-Zhashui Road
4.16      The road influence area.  The road (129.88 km) is located in the
central part of the Shangluo prefecture (see Map IBRD 20255). The road runs
from the Shang county seat, westward to Hongyanshi, Xingping, and ends at the
Zhashui county seat. The road influence area extends over 2,700 sq km,
covering 2 counties and 20 villages with a total population of 190,000. The
agricultural land in this area is much more fertile than the yellow soil
plateau to the north. Agricultural production of food grain, timber and
forestry products is abundant. The area also has large deposits of mineral
resources, i.e., iron and silver, which are not commercially exploitable now
because of high transport costs.
4.17      Existing road and traffic conditions.  The existing road, built in
1964, passes through the difficult terrain of the Qingling Mountain. The
condition of the road is very poor and most of its length is below Class IV
standard.  During the rainy season from July to September, many sections of
the road are impassible, causing traffic from Shangnan to detour for about 50
km through Shanyang and Zhen'an counties in order to reach Zhashui.  Existing
traffic in 1987 was 750 vpd, of which 34% was rotorized, 44% came from
tractors, and the remaining 22% came from animal drawn carts.
4.18      Project costs and benefits.  The cost of upgrading this road to a
Class III standard is estimated to be Y 36.2 million. Routine maintenance of
this road would cost about 'Y l,000/km/year; periodic maintenance would cost
about 10% of construction and would be required every 10 years.  The cost of
transport on the existing road is Y 0.26/t-km; this cost would drop to about
Y 0.20/t-km on the improved road. The major quantifiable benefits of the
project road include:
(a) savings in transport costs for existing motorized traffic;
(b) savings in time and transport costs for existing tractor traffic now
which would convert to small trucks when the road is improved; and
(c) developmental traffic generated by the expansion of agricultural or
village activities which would be made possible by the lower cost of
road transport.
4.19      The economic rate of return.  The first year benefit of this road
would be 23%--of which 49% would come from normal traffic, 38% from the
conversion of tractor transport, and 13% from generated traffic. The
resulting ERR is 25% (Table 4.9).



- 30 -
The Shangnan-Jiepaiya Road
4.20      The road influence area.  This road (105.5 km) is also located in
the southeastern Shangluo prefecture (see Map IBRD 20255). It extends from
the Shangnan county seat close to the border of Shaanxi - Henan provinces,
southward to Xianghe and ends at Jiepaiya, the border town between Shaanxi and
Hubei provinces. The road serves an area of over 1,094 sq. km with 21
villages and townships containing a population of 84,480. Major agricultural
activities in this area include animal husbandry and forestry products. It
also has great potential in mining non-metallic ores such as asbestos, crystal
and marble.
4.21      The existing road and traffic conditions.  The existing road was
built to a low Class IV standard and is the only road serving the 21 villages
in the influence area (para. 4.20). It is located along the very difficult
terrain of the Shuanmiao and Gaomiao Mountains on the provincial border and
serves as an important inter-provincial road link. Existing traffic in 1987
was 350 vpd of mixed traffic; 31% of the traffic was motorized.
4.22      Project costs and benefits.  The estimated cost of upgrading this
road to a Class III standard is Y 27.2 million (para. 4.21). Project benefits
accrue mainly from generated traffic, which has great potential, and from
transport cost savings on normal traffic. The road's strategic location at
the border of three provinces would generate more inter-provincial trade. The
improved road would lead to Shiyan, a large industrial city in Hubei province;
this would provide a substantial market for the agricultural products from
Shangluo prefecture.
4.23      The economic rate of return.  The first year benefit of this road
would be llX--of which 35% would come from normal traffic, 21% from the
conversion of tractor transport, and 44% from generated traffic. The
resulting ERR is 18% (Tdble 4.9).
The Pingli-Zhenping Road
4.24      The road influence area.  This 59.5 km road is located in Ankang
prefecture (see Map IBRD 20255), south of Shaanxi and close to the border with
Hubei and Sichuan provinces. The road extends from Pingli county and runs
southward to Zhenping county. It is also an interprovincial road link. The
influence area of the road covers over 3,200 sq. km and a population of
171,000. Major agricultural products include food grains, tea, jute, tung oil
and other forestry products. Mineral resources in this area include coal,
iron ore and marble.
4.25      The existing road and traffic condition.  The existing road is of a
low standard Class IV, located in mountainous terrain. During the rainy
season it often becomes impassable. Traffic counts in 1985 show the existing
traffic on the road to be about 160 vpd; 63% of this traffic comes from
motorized vehicles.
4.26      Project costs and benefits.  To upgrade about 31.5 km of the
existing road and construct some 28 km of new road, both to Class III stand-
ard, would cost about Y 28.7 million. The benefits of the project, apart from
transport cost savings on normal traffic, would also accrue from traffic gene-



- 31 -
rated after the road is opened because the improved road would facilitate and
enhance inter-provinicial trade among Shaanxi, Sichuan and Hubei provinces.
4.27      The economic rate of return.  The first year benefit of this road
would be 14Z--of which 41% would come from normal traffic, 11% from conversion
of tractor traffic, and 52% from generated traffic. The resulting ERR is 16%
(Table 4.9).
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Shaanxi Province
on:
(a)  a Road Safety Program for Shaanxi Province (para 2.14);
(b)  the terms of reference for consulting services for supervision of
construction (para. 3.7);
(c)  the terms of reference for the evaluation of existing road pavements
and the preparation of a strengthening and maintenance management
program (para 3.10);
(d)  the terms of reference for the preparation of a road data bank
(para 3.11);
(e)  an implementation schedule for the training program (para 3.13);
(f)  the list of equipment to be financed under the project (para 3.18);
(g)  a project implementation schedule (para 3.23); and
i              (h)  a representative from the Chinese Archaeological Institute to be
assigned on site full-time during the cornstruction of the road
section that passes through the area of archaeological remain (para.
3.25).
5.2       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Provincial
Government that:
(a)  the audited accounts of project-related expenditures prepared by the
State Auditing Administration would be sent to the Bank Group for
review within six months of the close of each Chinese fiscal year
(para 3.30); and
(b)  the resettlement of populations in the area aff. 'tCd b- the project
is carried out according to a plan acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.34).
5.3       Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that the State
Council has approved the Loan Agreement.
:#.4      Subject to the foregoing, the proposed projecc would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$50.0 million for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Investment in the Transport Sector (Including Posts and Telecommunications)
(Y btllion)
Ist FYP   2nd FYP                3rd FYP   4th FYP   5th FYP
1953-57   1958-62   1963-65   1966-70   1971-75   1976-80   1980    1981             1982      1983    1984    1985    1986
Railway                                    5.916    10.416       3.395     11.250    17.308        4.047    3.044   1.445   2.637   4.221   5.852            7.7   8.5
Highway                                        -          -           -          -          -          -    1.086   0.799   0.887   0.722   1.196            2.3   2.7
Waterway                                       -          -           -          -          -           -    1.391   1.295   1.545   1.937   2.629           3.7   3.7        -
Aviation                                       -          -          -           -          -          -    0.275   0.070   0.145   0.299   0.263            2.1   1.3
Pipeline                                       -          -          -           -          -          -    0.054   0.018   0.017   0.006   0.010            0.1   0.5
Subtotal                                                                                                5.850   3.627   5.231   7.185   9.950         15.9   16.7
Post and telecommunications                    -          -          -           -          -          -    0.384   0.420   0.490   0.619   0.896            1.2   1.3
Total                                9.015    16.330        5.378    15.001      31.759    30.245    6.234   4.047   5.721   7.804  10.846    17.1   18.0
Total Capital Investment            58.847   120.609    42.189    97.603   176.395   234.217   55.889  44.291  55.553  59.413  74.315   107.4   117.6
Transport and telecommunications
as X of total investment                 15.32      13.5%      12.7%      15.4%       18.02      12.9%     11.22    9.12    10.32   13.12   14.62    16.02  15.32
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China.



-33-                              Table 1.2
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China:  Freight Traffic, 1952  1977 and 1979-86
(Jbillion ton-km)
Road    Domestic       Pipe-     Civil                   Ocean
Year                  Rail        /a    waterway /b   lines    aviation        Total   shipping
1952                  60.2       1.4        11.8          -           -         73.4        2.8
Modal split
(%)                (82)       (2)        (16)           -           -       (100)          -
1977                 456.8      25.1       102.1        38.7         0.1       622.8      174.1
Modal split
(%)                (73)       (4)        (17)         (6)           -       (100)
1979                 559.8      74.5       139.0        47.6         0.1       821.0      317.4
1980                 571.7      76.4       152.3        49.1         0.1       849.6      353.2
1981                 571.2      78.0       150.1        49.9         0.2       850.0      364.3
1982                 612.0      94.9       170.8        50.1         0.2       928.0      376.9
1983                 6b4.6    108.4        181.1        52.4         0.2    1,006.1       397.7
1984                 724.7    153.6        196.1        57.1         0.3    1,132.0       437.4
1985                 812.5    177.0        225.5        60.3         0.4    1,275.8       532.9
1986                 876.5    195.8        248.9        61.2         0.5    1,382.9       594.8
Modal split
(M)                (64)      (14)        (18)         (4)           -       (100)
Growth rate
% p.a.
1952-77             8.4      12.2         9.0          -           -          8.9       17.9
1979-84             5.2       9.6         7.3         3.7          -          6.6        6.5
1983-84             9.1      41.7         8.3         9.0          -         12.5       10.0
1984-85            12.1      15.2        15.0         7.2          -         12.7       21.8
1985-86             7.9      10.6        10.4         1.5          -          8.4       11.6
1980-86             7.4      17.0         8.5         3.7          -          8.5        9.1
/a  From 1979 includes all road transport not only that done by road transport
departments. These data exclude transport by traditional means which is certainly
sizeable in terms of tonnage but mostly on short distance.
/b Excludes ocean going transport which is often included in Chinese statistics. In
1979, coastal shipping accounted for 85 billion tkm and inland waterways for 54
billion tkm. The figures for 1982 were respectively 106 and 65 billion tkm.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China.



-34-                               Table 1.3
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Passenger Traffic, 1952, 1977 and 1979-86
(billion passenger-km)
Year                         Rail        Road    Waterway   Aviation          Total
1952                         20.1        2.3           2.5         -           24.9
Modal split
(M)                       (81)        (9)         (10)           -         (100)
1977                        102.3       44.8           9.8        1.8         158.7
Modal split
(%)                       (64)       (28)          (7)         (1)         (100)
1979                        121.6       60.3          11.4        3.5         196.8
1980                        138.3       72.9          12.9        4.0         228.1
1981                        147.3       83.9          12.9        5.0         250.0
1982                        157.5       96.4          14.5        6.0         274.4
1983                        177.6      110.6          15.4        5.9         309.5
1984                        204.6      133.7          15.4        8.4         362.0
1985                        241.6      157.3          17.4       11.7         428.0
1986                        258.7      168.6          17.1       14.6         459.0
Modal split
(%)                       (56)       (37)          (4)        (3)          (100)
Growth rate
% p.a.
1952-77                    6.7       12.6          5.6         -             7.7
1979-84                   11.0       16.5          5.9       19.2           12.7
1983-84                   15.2       21.0           -        42.4           17.0
1984-85                   18.1       15.4         11.7       40.0           17.3
1985-86                    7.1        7.2         -1.7       24.8            7.2
1980-86                   11.0       15.0          4.8       24.1           12.3
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China.



CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Highway Design Standards in China
Expressway           Class 1              Class 2              Class 3              Class 4
Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-
hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain
area    area        area    area         area    area         area    area         area    area
Number of vehicles
accommodated            --->25,000-----   -5,000-25,000--   --2,000-5,000--   -->2,000----   --->200----
Design travel
speed (km/hr)             120       80         100      60          80       40          60       30          40       20
Surface width (m)         2x7.5   2x7.0        2x7.5   2x7.0            9        7           7       6      3.5         3.5
Subgrade width (m)           26       23          23       19          12     8.5         8.5      7.5      -----6.5
Minimum radius of hori-
zontal curves (m)         650      250         400      125        250       60         125       30          60       15
Maximum gradient (%)          3        5           4        6           5        7           6        8           6       9
Minimum passing sight
distance (i)              210      110         160       75         110      40          75       30          40       20
Nonsuperelevated
radius of hori-
zontal curve (m)        5,500   2,500       4,000   1,500        2,500      600       1,500      350         600      150
Source:  Technical Standard on Road Engineering, Highway Bureau, Ministry of Communications, Beijing, 1981.
I-a



-36-                            Table 1.5
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Motor Vehicles Manufactured and Imported, 1980-86
('000)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986
Domestic Production
Total vehicles             222.3    175.6    196.2    239.8    316.4    437.2          369.8
of which trucks          135.5    108.3    121.8    137.1    181.8    269.0          229.1
as % of total            (61.0)   (62.0)   (57.0)   (57.2)   (57.4)   (61.5)    (62.0)
Imports
i    Cars                       -        1.4      1.1       5.8      21.6    105.8
Trucks                      22.0      20.8       7.7      8.4      28.0    111.5
Dump trucks                   -        1.5       1.1       2.3      4.8      10.7
Chassis with engines          -        0.3       0.4      0.9       2.1       2.6
Others                        -       17.6       5.8       7.6     92.2    123.4
Total                        41.6      16.1      25.1    148.7    354.0
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China 1982-86.



-37-                               Table 1.6
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Total Freight Transport Handled by Public
and Social Trucks, 1978-86
Freight volume           Freight density       Average distance
(million tons)          (billion ton-km)             (km)
Public  Social              Public    Social       Public    Social
truck    truck    Total    truck        truck      truck       truck
1978            852    2,406    3,258       27.4       44.6        32.1       18.5
1979            816    2,748    3,564       26.8       47.7        32.8       17.4
1980            760    2,060    2,820       25.5       50.9        33.5      24.7
1981            715    2,922    3,637       25.3       52.7        35.4       18.0
1982             788    3,004    3,792      30.3       64.6        38.4       21.5
1983            791    3,219    4,010       33.5       74.9        42.3      23.3
1984            789    4,545    5,334       35.4      118.2        44.9      26.0
1985            762    4,987    5,749       35.5      141.5        46.6      28.4
1986            785                         36.9      158.9        47.0
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1980-86.



CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shaanxi: Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1985
Popula-                  Per capita      Road      Transport network density (km/'O00 km2)
tion         Area       GOVAI /a      length                               Navigable in-
(million)    ('000 kM2)      (Y)       ('000 km)        Road      Railway    land waterway
Country Total                   1,045.3        9.600        1,164.0       942.4         98.2         5.4            11.4
Xizang autonomous
region /b                       2.0       1,200          433.0         21.7         18.1          -               -
Jiangsu province /c              62.1          100       2,043.0         22.4        224.0         7.1           236.5
Shandong province /d             76.9          150       1,164.5         36.3        242.0        13.2            12.3
Sichuan province /d             101.9          560         745.3         89.3        159.5         5.1            14.3
Shaanxi province                 30.0          190         852.9         37.1        195.3         9.8             3.6
Jiangxi province                 34.6          160          764.5        31.8        198.7         9.0            30.9
/a  Groes Output Value of Agriculture and Industry.
7W The poorest province in China In terms of GOVAI.
77 The richest province in China in terms of GOVAI.
7T  Shandong province has the fifth largest road network in China in terms of road density per land area (Beijing,
Shanghai and Tianjin municipalities are excluded), whereas Sichuan province is the largest in terms of total length ;
of road network.
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of China, 1986.



Table 2.2
-39-
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shaanxi: Vehicle Fleet, 1985
('000)
Trucks /a    Passenger bus               Transport facilities
No. of trucks No. of bus Transport tractor
Gov't  Social  Gov't  Social  per km road         per '000       per km road
trucks trucks   bus    bus         network           pop.          network
Country Total            194.1  2,497.0  83.1   813.3          2.9           0.86             3.2
Xizang autonomous
region /b             2.7      13.6   0.2      3.0        0.7           1.60              0.2
Jiangsu province /c    8.8       96.4   5.5    42.3         4.7           0.77              0.8
Shandong province      15.3    153.0   3.8    48.0          4.6           0.67              9.0
Sichuan province       17.6    132.3   8.9    35.3          1.9           0.52              0.7
Shaanxi province        5.7      64.6   2.2    22.5         1.9           0.82              9.4
Jiangxl province         3.8     60.6   3.1    17.7         2.0           0.60              0.9
/a  Freight trailers excluded.
/b The poorest province in China.
/c The richest province in China.
Sources: - The Statistical Yearbook of China, 1986
- The Statistical Yearbook of Jiangxi. Sh4ndong and Shaanxi Provinces, 1986
- The Statistical Yearbook of Sichuan Province, 1987



Table 2.3
-40-
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shaanxi: Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks, 1985
Freight volume           Freight density    Average distance
(million tons)          (billion ton-km)             (km)
Public    Social               Public    Social    Public    Social
truck     truck      Total    truck       truck      truck     truck
Country Total             762.2      4,987      5,749      35.5      141.5      46.6       28.4
Xizang autonomous
region /a                 0.4          -          -       0.3         -      750.0         -
Jiangsu Province /b         48.0        166       214       2.0         -       41.7          -
Shandong Province          45.9         81        127       3.1        3.0      67.4       37.0
Sichuan Province           44.5        443        487       2.7       34.2      60.7       39.9
Shaanxi Province            16.8         29        46       0.8        1.2      47.6       40.9
Jiangxi Province            12.6         74        87       0.7        3.7       55.6      49.7
/a  The poorest province in China.
/b  The richest province in China.
Sources: - The Statistical Yearbook of China, 1986
- The Statistical Yearbook of Jiangxi, Shandong and Shaanxi Provinces, 1986
- The Statistical Yearbook of Sichuan Province, 1987



Table 2.4
-41-
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Revenues and Expenditures. 1980-87
(Y million)
Revenue                                     Expenditure
Road        Subsidies                 New con-                          Over-
mainte-   Provin-                       struction  Routine  Periodic   head
nance   cial gov-                         and     mainte-  mainte-    and
Year      Total    fee       ernment    MOC       Total  upgrading   nance    nance    others
1980       91.1    90.7         -        -           -         -         -          -        -
1981      122.0    93.0            29.0           115.6    101.1         -         9.6      5.0
1982      114.8   108.1             6.7           115.1      96.6        -        10.2      8.4
1983      138.9   131.1             7.8           137.2      93.9        -        11.8     31.5
1984      159.5   155.5        1.9      2.0       167.2    112.3         -        13.6     41.2
1985      226.6   220.5        3.0      3.2       217.7    145.8         -        16.1     55.8
1986      273.2   246.1        1.1     26.0       209.3      95.6      33.0      27.0      53.7
1987      292.7   250.5        1.7     40.5       253.4    128.3       34.3      27.4      63.3
Source: Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department, February 1988.



Table 2.5
-42-
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Shaanxi: Capital Construction Investment In Transport Sector, 1985
Total capital                        Per-capita capital
construction investment                construction investment
Rail-  High   Water  Avia-             Rail-  High   Water  Avia-
Total   way   way       way   tion   Total    way   way         way   tion
   ---- (Y 100 million) -------  --------------- (Y) ------------.
Country Total        159.3   77.1   23.1   36.2   20.6    15.2    7.4    2.2    3.5    2.0
Xizang autono-
mous region /a       0.64   0.02   0.59    -        0.03   32.0    1.0   29.8        -      1.5
Jiangsu
province /b         4.6    0.5    0.8    3.0    0.1         7.4    0.8    1.3    4.8    0.1
Shandong
province            9.8    5.8    0.5    2.7    0.2    12.7    7.5    0.6    3.5    0.3
Sichuan
province             3.9    0.9    1.7    0.9    0.4        3.8    0.9    1.7    0.9    0.4
Shaanxi
province             1.4    0.9    0.4    0.01   0.1        4.7    3.0    1.3    0.03   0.3
Jiangxi
province             0.5    0.1    0.2    0.1        -       1.4    0.3    0.6    0.2       -
/a  The poorest province in China.
/b  The richest province in China.
Sources: - The Statistical Yearbook of China, 1986
- The Statistical Yearbook of Jiangxi, Shandong and Shaanxi Provinces, 1986
- The Statistical Yearbook of Sichuan Province, 1987



Table 3.1
-43-
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumu-              Disbursement profile
IBRD fiscal year             lative disbursements              of China Transport
and semester             US$ million                            projects (%)
1989
December 31, 1988                                                     0
June 30, 1989                  5.0               9                    1
1990
December 31, 1989                                                     6
June 30, 1990                 15.0              26                   24
1991
December 31, 1990                                                    44
June 30, 1991                 35.0              60                   62
1992
December 31, 1991                                                    73
June 30, 1992                 40.0              70                   79
1993
December 31, 1992                                                    88
June 30, 1993                45.0               87                   93
1994
December 31, 1993             49.0              98                  100
June 30, 1994
1995
December 31, 1994             50.0             100                    -
June 30, 1995



CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sanyuan-Tongchuan Road: Economic Data of its Service Area, 1985
Gross output value           Per capita output value
Of agriculture                 Of agriculture
Population      Area      and industry   Of industry   and industry   Of industry
(million)   ('000 km2)  (Y billion at 1980 constant               (Y/person) --
price
Xi'an City                        2.3          0.9            7.0              6.8          2,991           2,922
Sanyuan County                    0.3          0.6            0.2             0.1             636             364
Yaoxian County                    0.3          1.6            0.15             0.1            600             400
Tongchuan City                    0.4          0.8            0.5              0.4          1,205           1,128
Total, the 4 Cities          3.3          3.9            7.8             7.4          2,363           2,264
Total Shaanxi province           30.0        205.6           23.7             16.9            790             563
% of the 4 cities                11.0          1.9           32.9            43.8        3 times          4 times
to the province                                                                         higher          higher
Source: Statistical yearbook of Shaanxi Province, 1986.
I D
0*
0



-45;-                                        Table 4.2
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
A. Traffic an the Existing Roads without the New Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
Expected Traffic   Vehicle Operating Costs
Srowth Rates         on existing roads
Characteristics       Shanyuan-Yaoxian- Chuankou-            1986-    2001-    Flat    Hilly  Moutain
of existing Rd.       Yaoxian  Chuankou Houliu               2000      2012   poor rd. poor rd. poor rd.
Rd length (73.2km)        37.4      19.4      16.4
width: pavement,e      6.5-8.5       8.5       8.5
lanes                 2         2        2
6radients                  4.52     5-6t    8-131
flat,rol.   hilly mountain
1986 ajv speed,kph          35        30        25
1996 vpd:
Trucks: Small               130       93        33               6         4    315.0    340.3    428.3
Medius            2013      2254      820               10        8    434.8    504.5    600.6
Large              276       229       84               12       10    585.2    681.4    819.8
Tr.trailer         523       577      210               12       10   1202.7   1456.2   1738.4
Buses:  Small              343       375       137              14        10    560.3    585.7    735.5
Medium             267       301      110               12        8    721.4    937.7   1078.3
Total                     3552      3829      1394
1992 vpd:
Trucks: Small               184      132        47
Medium            3566      3993     1453
Large              545       452      166
Tr.trailer        1032      1139      415
Buses:  Small               753      823       301
Nedius             527       594      217
Total                     6608      7133      2598
2000 vpd:
Trucks: Small              294       210        75
Medium            7644      8560     3114
Large             1349      1119      411
Tr.trailer        2556      2820     1026
Buses:  Seall             2148      2348       858
Medium            1305      1471      538
Total                    15296    16528       6021



-46-
CHINA                                                 Table 4.3
SHAANII PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                   Page I of 2
S. Projected Traffic an the Nev Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highuay
li) Traffic diverted to & generated on new road
Vehicle Operating Costs
on existing roads
Expected  ------------------------
Characteristics       Shanyuan-Yaoxian- Chuankou-                  Traf4.Gen   Flat    Hilly   Moutain
of proposed Rd.       Yaoxian  Chuankou Houliu                     Rates (1) good rd. good rd. good rd.
Rd length (65.4ke)          32      19.3      15.5
distance saved(ks)         5.4       0.1      0.9
width: pavement,e        2x7.5    2x7.5          9
lanes                 4      2x2         2
Gradients                 0-IX  up to3Z  up toS2
Design Speed, kph          100        90        60
Expected diversion
fr existing rd.(2)          70        80        20
1992 vpd:
Diverted traffic
Trucks: Small              129       106         9                              225.3    243.4    312.7
Medium            2496     3194       291                              313.6    363.9    441.3
Large              381      362        33                              427.7    498.0    604.7
Tr.trailer         723      911        93                              990.0   1077.6   1295.7
Buses:  Small              527       658       60                              359.6    395.2    501.8
Nedius             369      475        43                              523.7    608.2    740.8
Total                     4625      5707      520
1992 vpd:
6enerated traffic
Trucks: Small               26        21        2                        20
Medius             250      319        29                        10
Large               38       36         3                        10
Tr.trai ler        145      192        17                       20
Buses:  Small              105       132       12                        20
Medius              74       95         9                        20
Total                      637       796       72
_-   -    -- -- - _ ---_-_-_ -
1992 vpd:
Diverted fr.railwy
Large truck                  0         0        0
Medium bus                 107       107       107
Total                      107       107       107
Total(on new road)        5369      6599      699
____-- ---- -------_ _
----- ----- ---- ----- ----   ----- ----_---- -----    ----  ------__--  ----  ----_----    ----  ----



-47-
10i Traffic liverted to I generated on ne  road IContd ....                              Table 4.3
... .....   ...................                                                      -----
-------------------------------------------^-------------------------------------                  Page 2 of 2
Sanyuan- YVoaian- Chuankwu-
YVosian  Chuankou Heuliu
2000 vpd:
Diverted traffic
Trucks: Small               206       168        15
lledium           5351      6848       623
Large              944       995        92
Tr.trailer        1789      2256       205
Ruses:  Small              1503      1878       172
ledius             913      1177       10l
Total                     10707    13222       1204
2000 vpd:
Generated traffic
Trucks: Small                41        34         3
!edium             535       685        62
Large                94       90         9
Tr.trailer         358       451        41
Buses:  Small               301       376        34
Nedium              183      235        22
Total                      1512      Ai70       170
2000 vpd:
Diverted fr.railwy
Large truck                 258       259       259
Nedium bus                  199       198       199
Total                       456       456       456
Totallon neu road)        12674    15548       1830
Iiii Traffic left on existing road
1992 vpd;
Trucks: Seall                55        26        37
ledius            1070       799      1162
Large               163       90       133
Tr.trailer         310       228       332
Buses:  Small               226       165       241
hedius              159      119       174
Total                      1982      1427      2078
2000 vpd:
Trucks: Stall                B8        42        60
ledius            2293      1712      2491
Large              405       224       329
Tr.trailer         767       564       921
Buses:  Seall               644       470       686
Iedius             391       294       430
Total                      4589      3.06      4817



-48-
Table 4.4
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Capacity of the New Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
in Passenger Car Equivalent Unit (PCUs)
Shanyuan-Yaoxian- Chuankou-
Yaoxian  Chuankou Houliu
1992 vpd:
Trucks: Small       (2)           310      253      22
Medium  (2.5)           6865     B785    799
Large      (3)          1258      1193    109
Tr.trailer(4)           3469     4373    398
Buses:  Small      (2)           1265     15B0    144
Medium  (2.5)           1374      1693    397
Total                       14540    17878   1870
2000 vpd.
Trucks: Small      (2)           494       404      36
Medium  (2.51          14715    18831   1713
Large      (3)          3889     3728   1044
Tr.trailer(4)           8588    10828    9B5
Buses:  Small      (2)          3608      4508    412
Hedium  (2.5)           3234     4025    817
Total                      34529    42324   5007
Note: Figures in parentheses are car equivalent factors of
vehicles moving on flat terrain.



Table 4.5
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Cost Conversion Factors, 1988
Financial cost         Conversion       Economic
composition (%) /a        factors         cost (%)
Construction
Labor
Skilled                             3.9                 3.0/b           11.7
UnskiJ led                          9.0                 0.77b            6.3
Equipmeint                           11.6                 1.3c            15.0
Materials                            32.9                  1.0            32.9
Cement                                7.7                 1.3             10.0
Steel                                 4.1                 1.3              5.3
Timber                                4.0                 1.3/b            5.2
Bitumen                               1.4                 1.0              1.4
Fuel                                  5.0                 1.0              5.0
Overheads                            20.4                 1.0             20.4
Total                            100.0                                113.2
Vehicle Operation (based
on 4-ton truck, hilly
terrain)
Labor                                 7.7                 1.0              7.7
Equipment depreciation               13.7                 1.3             17.8
Fuel                                 39.5                 1.0             39.5
Tires                                 7.9                 1.0              7.9
Maintenance                          25.6                 1.7/d           42.7
Overheads                             5.6                 1.0              5.6
Total                            100.0                                121.2
/a Excluding miscellanea.
/b According to Peter Dittus, "Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in
China," January 1988.
/c Own estimates.
/d Based on 1/3 unskilled labor, 1/3 skilled labor and 1/3 spare parts.



-50-
CHINA                                 Table 4.6
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Cost Summary (1989)
( Yuan/ 000 Veh-ku ) 1/
Small    Small   Iedius    Large       Seoi-   Seall    Medium   Large
Car     Truck    Truck    Truck   Trailer    Bus         Bus      Bus
Flat Terrain:
Good condition Rd.   225.3    225.3    313.6    427.7    890.0    358.6    523.7    944.9
Fair condition Rd.   281.6    281.6    392.0    534.6   1112.5    448.3    654.6   1181.1
Poor condition Rd.   317.5    315.0    434.8    585.2   1202.7    560.3    721.4   1285.5
Hilly Terrain:
God condition Rd.   243.5    243.4    363.F    498.0   1077.6    395.2    608.2   1127.4
Fair condition Rd.   304.4    304.2    454.8    622.5   1347.0    494.0    760.2   1409.3
Poor condition Rd.   343.2    340.3    504.5    681.4   1456.2    595.7    837.7   1533.8
Mountainous Terrain:
Good condition Rd.   288.6    312.7    441.3    604.7   1295.7    501.8    740.8   1363.7
Fair condition Rd.   360.8    390.9    551.6    755.9   1619.6    627.2    926.0   1704.6
Poor condition Rd.   405.7    428.3    600.6    819.8   1738.4    735.5   1078.3   1940.8
Note:  1/ Not adjusted vith conversion factors.
2/ VGCs of buses (2B, 40,and 60 passenger seats for small, medium, and large
buses respectively) include tiee value of passengers at Y 0.31passenger-hour
Source:   Mission estimates, based on Chinese basic data.



Table 4.7
. ...... ..   .. ..............          . ................ . ..... .. . ...... . ............. .... . . .......  ...... ..... ...... I..... ..  .......  ...... .. . ...........
-  -------- "a -                                                                       ----    is Amt. "Girns-                                                        -
cost --  ---                                                                         1---- --44" 2--                                        1-- Im cowwwo lactwo 1.1
11,21'           -.-a scrimara-               low                       Wost.                      tftd.                       Can.
cut    cost                               Ffm    aftboma                      tnts    lowits              cost$    onsfits           en"         9"01ts         cont.   total
fm                , I   total   Nwml involif    fall  so.Imps   tgtd             Nit     -ml   1-2011    Om         .-;-V               art              4-mi    ftt          ents    soa,"s   ftl
................................ ....................... ..... ........ ..... .......... . .    ........ .... .   .. ..... ...... ........... .. . ............ . .  ... ..... ........... . ......
4L arW. insto sectle., itim 1. U.0 tol
14"      ZLO             22.00                                                 112.4111)  16.411          MAI   26.0                  lb.40)  22.06               (n.M      2.0              MAN
14,10    44.0            44. 0                                                 .46.0)  $L"                112.911  $2.0               132.01  OI."                44.01   1.3                (41.21)
lost     44.06           44.40                                                 .44.01  52.0                U.",  $2.0                 (52.01   44.01,            04.011)   4.44              (41.611
t"l      11.0            U."      17.02     2.11    O."       0.21    IIIJ?    1.11   C3.10    13.11    2.62    13.10    19.11          6.5?    it."     15.01    4.12       1.10     .U      Wn
1"3              9.06     0. 0a    19.63    Z."      0.47    On        23.0     ZZ."      1.06    14.0     11.14     0.16    23.00    U.44    --.O&    0.40   111,34    0.01         3.11    26.14
W4              O.%       o-ob    &isa    z.p        o-is     o-n     mri   26-it    (1.06    21.42    2141,    Los    HJ?   .16.71    O.0               21.42    Z1.36              4.11    IO."
O."      0.06    26.91     1.17     0.63     6.23    31.1o    11.10      0.06    Mr,    14.V        0.66    31AI,   31.10    0-06    24.93    24.61                 4.61    31.11
19%              O.%      0.06    3 1. Ss   !.9S    $.77      0.14    :6.19    ;6.22      U-06    29.03    21.97     0.46    $6.29    Wn         -.96    29.03   A.?                3.0     41.31
I"?             0.01,    0.06    36.52    *.W        ..91    6.24    42.n    42.19        O^      $3.U     33.14    0.6b    42.23   42.19        0.06    31.00    33.14              3.40   4116
19911           0.416    0. oh    42.55     5.34     1.07    0.24    ".20    49.14        0.96    11.36    31.311    9.06    41.20   49.14    O."    39. 36   S11311                 S."    33.44
tg"             L14       0.06    0.11      6.22     Lh       0.14    57.29    51.23      0.46    43.0     411.11    0.06    V.29    51.N        0.06    45.0    4177                4.30    63.53
M                0.46     0.06    37. to    7.22     1.51    0.24    66.13   66.61    0.06    33.311   $3.32         0.06    66.15    60.61    0.06    $3.31   $3.32                 6.61    11.14
ml              COO       0.46    61-79     6.41     1.66    0.24    11.0    17.54    -.06    62.06    62.02         9.06    77.40    11-54    0.06    62-06   42-#Z                         77.%4
M               12.10    11.10   711.30     4.10     1.13     0.14    09.21   it. 16   12.10    MIS    60.11    t?. 10    ".211  PLN            12.10   72.21   60.19                         ?1.16
im               0101,    0.06    11.1     ti-42     7.01    0. 24   IOLM    IO."         9.06    $4.0     13.14    0.06   185.0   loq."         0.06   "."    r. "                          104A
2m               OA       0.%   106.45    13.30      2-It    0.14   .22.15  1U.09         0.06    9I."    97.66      0.26   WAS   122.09         0.%     ". 12    97.66                      122.1111
IM                 06     0.46   123-ti,   15.0      1.41    0.24   142.0   142.06        9.11141  113JO   113.64    0.46   142.12  142.06    0.96   113.10   113.64                         142.06
im               :..%     L%    144.42    Met        2.67    0.14   IbLif  14.31    9.46   111.30   13744            11%    1113.111  165.31    O."    112.311  132.24                       163.31
M?               0.06    0.06   168.23    21-01      I.441    0.24   192.44  192. X       0.06   ISS."   153.0       6.16   112.44   102.311    0.06   WAS   ISLIR                           192.311
im                        0.06   IOLOI   24.41    11-23    0.24   Z23.95   ULP            9.66   U9.16   111.16      0.06   US."   221.0         0.46   1?9.16   1".10                       UJ.P
3m                        0.06   2211-36    M-30     3.55    6.24   10.63  20-S           4.%    NLU    20.46        0.46   U0.63   M.9          9.06   200.12   201.41,                     260.311
nit              0.46     0.06   266."     33.2111   3.91    0124   XLP   M.33            0.06   242.11  24:.d       6.06   301.39  SOSISI    0.06   242.11  X.63                            303.33
Zol I            0.46     0.06   S119.94    $1.67    4.30     9.24   MAS   M.109          0.06   M.52   202.46       0.0    3W. 11  333.09    0.06   M.52  M.46                              353.0
20ti            12.19   1.1.16  161.49    4S."       4. P3    0.24   $11.10  TWA         12.10   MA       116,111   tL to   411.14  3011.0      0.1111  3n.0    116.111                      SKVP
Sott",             19.0 kg,                          (O      'Lin                En      n.Sn               Om -    Z5.501              En      24.4n              M    -    ".M
(14.01   12.00             112.0111  13.0              112.0)   to."              410.01    1.30             411.141,
26 to           20.0                                                  120.00)   24.0             174.0)  24.0                424.01  a."                 t2o.0     2.0              in.")
Z        20:00           20.*                                                  (24.00)  24.0              (14,00    14.10             124.00)   20.00            44.6111)   LIO              (ILiss
M        13. to          15.0      9-10     1.12     4.11     0.12   11.42    14.14)   19.90       LA      f0.661   18.0      11.42    0.141   IL*        1.34    IL661    1.30       I.0111  ILM
14,01            4.46     O."    10.62      1.32     9.21    0.12    12.1?    MIS    0.04          V.Q      9.11     I."      IJ."     12.23    0.94      9.01     9.11    LO         2.09    14.32
Cast             I A      O' 04    12.54    1.31,    0.25     0.12   14.47    14.0        U.04    11.51    ISM       0.04    14.41    14.43      0.94    U.51    11.54                2.32    14. is
!QVS                      0.04    14.00     LO       4.10     0.13    17.01    11.13    0.04    13.65    13.61    C04    11.07    11.03    0.04    13.0           IL61                2.36    It."
r.-4     0.04    11.47     2.11    0.35      0.13   26.12   20.08       f.44    Ifi.10    16.06     0.04    RAZ    20.08    9.44    163111  16.06                   2.12    U."
0.14     O."     "It?      L%       9.01    9.13   23-7?   13.41        6.94    IO."      N.411    0.44    711. n    13.611    0.04    16-14    IL"                 3.0     26.1b
:0011              64     0.44    24.34     3.02     4.41     0.11   27.97   21.13        0.04    22.8     22.14     0.04    21.97   F."         0.04    n. 31   22.34               3.36    $1.2t
.W                "      v.04   IL 13      MI    0.9         6.13    YLOO    57.16    -.04    26.66    26.4         0.04    $3.0      U.96    0.44    26.411  26.16                 1.63    :6.9
04.              .".4    V."      43.92     4.14     0.61    9. Is   31."       U."       9.0     11.11    31.14     0.04    X."    if."         0.94    31.11    31.14              !.99    42.0
20,11            0.04     0.04    0.04      5-01    O- 16     0-11   OL"       45-40     U-04    36A       36-ft    0.44    45.94    43.40    L44    36.75    *11                            45.10
M                6.56     a.50    47                   go    0.13   ,          41 63     &,W      43 32    S6.V      6.50    54.11i   41.d       6.50    43-32    Wol                        47.63
1.141            0.44     0.04   SS:,"      I I"     :.-42    O. is   N'S   63: "        9.04    51:06    51.02      0.04    63.111   6s,"      0.04   31.06    51.02                        63. 1,
M                #.44     O."    65-15      LZI      1.01    0.11    MIS   ?5.11    0.04    0.20    ho. 16           0.0     15.3    15.21    0.04    0.21    60.16                          73.21
ho               D."     0.04    ?I.73      9. ?b    1.11    0.13    oLn    0.0          0.04    IO."      TO."      0.04    IL73   IILAO    0.04    TO."         IO."                       0.0
?M               L04    0.04   903    11.53          1.22    0.93  104.63  $01.3011   O."        C.10    93.66    O."   tK43   IO1.W            LO       83.10    BLU                       104.9
MCI              0.04     0.44   101.11)   13.63     1.14    0.11  123.39   123.13       v.04    ILYI   ".61    0.04   IZLSV   1=35    0.04    VLII   OLO                                   123.33
9.04    O."   121.64    16.0        1.41    0,13   1U.SS   14S."        0.04   116.0    HL31        0.04   143.113  143.0      0.04   116.42   IILA                        143.49
M                0 .4    LO    ISO."       19.00     1.62    0.13   11145   171.61    0.04   131.12   137.211    O."    01.115   M.&I    0.04   137.2    137.2111                           171.61
2010             4:-4    #.O4   111.12    n.44       LIS      LIS  2M41   MAS    0. 'A   161.16   161.94    0.04   MAY  202.0                   0.04   161.11   lit."                       W.43
7011             O."      6.04   110.n    26.10      Lot      0.11   218.61  131,8111   0.44   111.97   191.03    0.04   13LO1  239.0           9.64   111.07   101.03                      ZU.00
loll             640    6.50   24L to    11.30       2. 16    0.11  291.17  M.I.?        6.50   vs."    ZILTZ        6.W    ni. n 2ILP           0.50   M-9    218.92                       M.21
EFA    14.031              En      ;4.261             M        27.301;            Om      26.101             En      29.1111
E. CbMOW    Plahl SOCtig" (Cifft  11. 14-4 0#1
tm        5.40            5.0                                                   -$.60)   coll              16.001   coo               16.01   3.09                ILOI   0.65                fSASJ
119-     IO."            1,40                                                 I0.091   12.00              112.001   12.00            U2.0111  10.0               00.0114   1.1%             111.201
:01      10.00           10.00                                                T.001   IL"                 112.01   12.00              02.01   10.00              (10.001    1.10             (11.10)
992      LO              5.10     2.41    G.30      6.24     0.10               1.731   6.44      1.44    14.221   6.%        3.03    43.911   3.80      2.44    11.361   0.9       0.35    ILAh
lm               0.01    0.01        ?I     0.35     9.29    0.10      1.32     1.31    0.01       Le       2-113    0.01     3.32      LSI    0.01       i.v      2.11    0.0       0.60     4.11
loss             Lit    0.01    11.10       O."      0.34    01.10     4.44     4.03     0.01    1.24       1.2S    0.01      4.14      4.03    0.61    3.24        .23              6.0      4.0
1995             0.01     0.61    3.69      0.46     0.0      0.11    O."       GA       0.61      Lyl      3.11    0.01      4.66     4.65      0.01     3.72     3.11              0.10     1.33
11%              0.91    0.01    US    0.53    -.41           0.11    LIP    1.36    0.91          4.30     4.29     0.01    LV         Lu       0.91    4.36      4.v               #.?S     0.11
1"'              0.01    0.01    4.90       0.61    0.37    9.11    Cit         6,11    4A         4."      4.14     0.01    6.11      6.10      ).01    4A        4.94              0.0      6.11
19"              0.01    0.01    5.65       0. TI)    ..611    0.11    7.14     Y.tl    0.01    5.71        B. To    0.01     1.16      7.13    9.61    5.11    LM                   O."      I.141
lo"             4.91    Q.01    6.51    6.11         0.11    0.11    L24        1.33    0.01    &.V         G.W      0.01    4.24      1.23    0.91    6.9         e-36              0.91     9.14
zm               0.01    Lot        AZ    0.64       E."      6.11    9.11    9.51    Q.11          .,I     1.61    6.0i      q.W       9.11    0.01      1.62     1.61                       9.11
201              0.01     O.Oi    LI'       1.41     1-ts    0.1i   10.01   tf,"         -.01    O. Ts    Ln         0.01    10.41    $0.0       0.01    Ln        Ln                        IO."
2002             3.0      3.09   10.4*      1.25     1.16     cu       12.u     6.44      LO      to."      0.94     3.49    12.52    4.44       1.4    It."       6.911                      9.44
"S               0.411    O."     ti.53     1.44     LIN    0.11   14.2    14,33         0.01    11.0      11.4      O.Ot    14.36    14.33      9.01    11-49    11-41                      14.35
,W               0.91    ..114   1101       1.66     1.61    0.11    u.41    w4i          OM      13. to    13.17    9.01    h.41    16.46       0.01    13.16    13.11                      16.46
mm               0.01    0.01   IL32        131      LVI    0.11   11.0                  6.01    15.11   13.19    11.61    10.0        11.0      0.01    15.11   15.10                       it.0
104              0.91    6.01    0.111,    2.2--    1.11    0.11   21.0         21.61    0.01    1734    II.;$    #-W        21.105   21.61    0.01    17.34    11.33                        21.0
2mi              0.01    Q.Ot    20.36      :14      1.0      CII   24.111   24.0        9.01    19-1i   If."       0.01    2S.P     2cm       tol    19.91    tq.%                         24.0
2m               4.91    0.01   23.41       2.93     --y    0.11   &10    21147    0.01    ZLINIO  22.85            0.01    211.11111  213?    0.01   22.111,   U.05                        21-P
"P               0.0,    9.01   21.0,    -,. is      ;.n      cif   ;Z-13   32.v         0.01   16.2,    II$          .#I    SLO3    IN          0.91    26.26    U.25                       32.82
241.             0.11    0.01    11.20      L"       1.51    0.11    V.12    P.71    vAI    30.19    30.11    0.01    VJ2    37.71    0.01   36.16   $0.11                                   V.11
0.41    0.411   35.97      4.00     2.76    0.11   411.14   43.33    0.01    14.61    34,61,    0.41    43.34    41.33    0101    X61    $4.0                               43.31
2110:11          LO       3.0111   41.41    3.19     3.94    9.11   40.91   46. IS        4.1111    P-15    36-11    LO      49-vi   wn          Los    Sim       ux                         46. 73
to -   20.6%               tv -   16.022              too - Mail                  M    -   Ineft             to  -   MISS,
9. Gral total                                                                                         M       -   n-M            to - 25.2411                M    -   24.6711           En  -    27.5311
..................... ............ . .........                                            . . . . .          . ...........................                                                -  ------
I I, WI" ulateam C"t 4t I LOMAS W class I ad me I 1.0co'ke #W rAnt It reW ad
wiliat UlgtUftt "201"ll rnn It rw1I d dW lft Of tgtd rod COM4011CUIN COU.
1.2, lecrftm in to to""Jo #Ktors.
(.St IUI fawn at towAtL



Table 4.8
-52-
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Demographic and Transport Network Data for
Shangluo and Ankang Prefectures, 1986
Provincial
total (1985)        Shangluo        Ankang
Population (million)                        30.02             2.12            2.67
Area ('000 km2)                            190.00            19.29           23.39
Per capita GOVAI (Yuan)                    852.90           163.90          162.30
Road length ('000 km)                       37.10             4.07            4.71
Transport network density
(km/'000 km )
Highway                                  195.30           210.99          201.37
Railway                                    9.80        no railway
Navigable inland waterway                  3.60        no waterway
All weather roads ('000 km)                 18.40             0.66            1.55
Share of all weather road
to total road network (M)                 49.60            16.22           32.91
Freight volume (million t-km)            1,994.00           127.49          102.61
Passenger volume (million p-km)          3,756.00           423.49          224.50
Sources:  Statistical Yearbook of Shaanxi Province, 1986; and Shaanxi Provin-
cial Transport Department.



-.53-
CHINA                                                                  Table 4.9
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                   Page I of 3
Economic Analysis of Rural Road
A. Shangxian-Zhashui Road
Parameters:
Road length (old)                   (km)      = LO 
Road length (new)   129.9           (km)      = LN
Ave length diff.        50          (km)      = LD
VOC on old road       0.26          (YIt-km) = CO
VOC on new road       0.20          (Ylt-km) = CN
Cost diff.           0.06          (Y/t-ka) = CD
VOC tractor(O.Rd)      0.3          (Y/t-km) = CTO
Cost diff(tract)      0.1          (Y/t-ka) = CDT
Tonnage(stand.vei    4.00           (ton)    = TV
Load factor          0.644                    = LF
Average load         2.576          (ton)    = AL
(1) TCS due to shorter distence        = Traffic voluent3651LDCOIAL
(2) TCS due to road improvement        = Traffic volumnt36t$LNtCD$AL
(3) Generated Traffic                  = Total TCS       I      0.15
Traf.Vol    Cons.Cost    Distance Savings    Rd.improvesent saving Generated   Net Ben.
(AADT)       ('OOOY)         ('OOY)                  ('000Y)          traffic    ('OOOY)
Normal  Convert               Normal    Tractor      Normal    Tractor
Grovth fr.tract              Traffic   converted   Traffic   converted
1989             304     157      9045                                                                  -9045
1990            331      171    18090                                                                  -18090
1991            361      187      9045                                                                  -9045
1992            393      204       130        1202         718       2883        2487        1094        8254
1993            472      244       130        1441         861       3457        2982        1311        9922
1994            528      273       130        1614         964       3871        3340        1468       11129
1995            592      306       130        1808        1080       4336        3741        1645       12480
1996            627      325       130        1917        1145       4596        3965        1743       13236
1997            665      344       130        2032        1213       4872        4203        1848       14038
1998            705      365       130        2153        1286       5164        4455        1959       14888
1999            747      387       130        2283        1363       5474        4723        2076       15789
2000             792     410       130        2420        1445       5802        5006        2201       16744
2001             839     434      3618        2565        1532       6151        5306        2333       14269
2002             890     461       130        2719        1624       6520        5625        2473       18830
2003             943     488       130        2882        1721       6911        5962        2621       19968
2004            1000     517       130        3055        1824       7325        6320        2779       21173
2005            1060     549       130        3238        1934       7765        6699        2945       22451
2006            1123     581       130        3432        2050       8231        7101        3122       23807
IRR:       25 X



-54-
CHINA
Table 4.9
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                    ---------
___------___---- _______--_-- _-----                                                  Page 2 Of 3
Economic Analysis of Rural Roads
9. Shangnan-Jiepaiya Road
Parameters:
Road length (old)                    (km)         0 LO
Road length (new)   105.5            (km)      : LN
Ave length diff.         20          (km)      = LD
VOC on old road       0.27           (Y/t-km) = CO
VOC on new road       0.20           (Y/t-ko)   CN
Cost diff.           0.07           (Y/t-ks)   CD
VOC tractor(O.rd)      0.3           (Y/t-ke)   CTO
Cost diffltrac.)      0.1           (Y/t-km) = CDT
Tonnage(stand.ve)    4.00            (ton)       TV
Load factor          0.644                    = LF
Average load         2.576           (ton)    = AL
(I) TCS due to shorter distence         = Traffic volumnM36UtLDCOSAL
t2) Tcs due to road improvement         = Traffic volumnMU36SLNICDUAL
(3) 6enerated Traffic                   : Total tCS       I       0.8
Traf.Vol    Cons.Cost    Distance Savings    Rd.isprovement saving Generated   Net Ben.
(AADT)      (tOOOY)         (tOOOY)                   (lOOOY)           traffic    tOOOY)
Normal  Convert               Normal    Tractor       Normal    Tractor
growth fr.tract              Traffic   converted   Traffic   converted
1989             133       63     6793                                                                    6793
1990             145       69    13585                                                                  -13585
1991             158       75     6793                                                                   -6793
1992             190       82       106        241          115       1316         812        1987        4366
1993             207       98       106        262          138        1435        974        2247        4951
1994             231      110       106        294         155        1607        1090        2517        5557
1995             259      123       106        329          174       1800        1221        2819        6237
1996             275      130       106        349         184        1908        1294        2988        6617
1997             291      138       106        370         195        2022        1372        3167        7021
1998             309      147       106        392         207        2143        1454        3357        7448
1999             327      155       106        415         219        2272        1542        3559        7902
2000             347      165       106         440        232        2408        1634        3772        8382
2001             368      175     2717         467         246        2553        1732        3999        b280
2002             390      185       106        495         261        2706        1836        4238        9431
2003             413      196       106        524         277        2868        1946        4493       10003
2004             438      208       106        556         293        3041        2063        4762       10610
2005             464      220       106        589         311        3223        2187        5048       11253
2006             492      234       106        625         330        3416        2318        5351       11934
IRR        18 x



-55-
CHINA                                                                Table 4.9
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                 Page 3 of 3
Econosic Analysis of Rural Road
C. Pingli-Zhenping Road
Parameters:
_____ _____
Road length (old)                   (kn)     z L0
Road length (new)    59.5           (km)       LN
Ave length diff.        25          (kin)       LD
VOC on old road        0.3          (Ylt-km) - CO
VOC on new road       0.19          (Y/t-kg) = CN
Cost diff.          0.115          (Y/t-ke) = CD
VOC tractor(O.Rd)    0.35           CUt-km)   CTO
Cost diff(tract)   0.165           (Y/t-km) = CDT
Tonnage(stand.ve)    4.00           (ton)    = TV
Load factor          0.644                   = LF
Average load         2.576          (ton)    = AL
(1) TCS due to shorter distence       = Traffic volumntM35ILDCOMAL
(2) TCS due to road improvement       = Traffic valumnl36LNtCD)AL
(3) Generated Traffic                 : Total TCS        I      1.0
Traf.Vol    Cons.Cost    Distance Savings    Rd.improvement saving Generated   Net Ben.
(AADT)      (0OY)         (OOOY)                   (000Y)         traffic    ('090Y)
Normal  Convert              Noreal    Tractor       Normal    Tractor
6rowth fr.tract             Traffic   converted   Traffic   converted
1989            142       29     7175                                                                 -7175
1990            154       32    14350                                                                -14350
1991            168       35     7175                                                                 -7175
1992            202       38       60         356          78       1298         349       2080        4101
1993            220       45       60         388          93       1415         418       2314        456E
1994            246       51       60         434         104       1584         468       2591        5123
1995            276       57       60         486         117       1775         525       2902        5745
1996            292       60       60         515         124       18B1         556       3076        6093
1997            310       64       60         546         131       1994         589       3261        6463
1998            329       68       60         579         139       2113         625       3457        6854
1999            348       72       60         614         148       2240         662       3664        7269
2000            369       76        60        651         156       2375         702       3884        7708
2001            391       81     2870         690         166       2517         744        4117       5364
2002            415       85        60        731         176       2668         789        4364       8669
2003            440       91        60        775          36       2828         836        4626       9192
2004            466       96       60         822         197       2998         886        4903       9747
2005            494      102        60        871         209       3178         940        5198      10336
2006            524      108        60        923         222       3369         9?%       5509       10959
IRR-       16 %
_- -_______________ - - - -----___ --__ --_____ - -____ ----____ -____ - -__________ --_ ---_   __ ______________________ -____



- 56 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 1
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION
I. INTRODUCTION
The Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department (SPTD) plans to
construct a new 66.8-km highway (51.3 km of Class I and 15.5 km of Class II
standards) between Sanyuan and Tongchuan. The project will comprise 4 civil
works contracts. Accordingly, the SPTD will seek the services of qualified
and experienced consultants to form part of a joint consultants/SPTD team to
supervise the works. It is estimated that about 48 man-months of foreign
consultant services will be needed.
II. OBJECTIVES
The purpose of the services is to ensure:
(a) that all civil, mechanical and electrical works are carried out in
full compliance with specificationis; and
(b) that SPTD engineers on the joint supervision team are trained both
formally and on-the-job in civil works supervision.
III. DEFINITIONS
In these Terms of Reference the following words shall have the
meanings hereby assigned by them:
(a)  Contractor:          The construction firm(s) which the SPTD will
contract with for the road construction.
(b)  Contract:            Contract to be agreed between the parties
mentioned under (a) above.
(c)  Works:               The works to be executed in accordance with the
Contract.
(d)  Engineer:                  , SPTD.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(e) Resident Engineer: The engineer appointed by the Engineer in (d)
above.
(f)  Employer:            The SPTD.
IV. SCOPE OF WORK
The consultant is to supervise the Works and to approve the
materials and workmanship of the Works. They will have no authority to
relieve the Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract
nor to order any work involving delays or any extra payment by the Employer
without the consent of the Employer.
General Duties
(a) to decide on the Contractor's application for subletting parts of
the Works, after prior consultation with the Employer;
(b) to explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies of
Contract Documents and to provide assistance to the Employer in the
settlement of disputes with the Contractor;
Cc) to approve the Contractor's working drawings and if necessary to
issue further drawings and/or to give instructions to the
Contractor;
5d) to provide data for the setting out of the Works;
(e) to approve or to disapprove the Contractor's superintendence, key
personnel and/or construction program, materials and/or sources of
materials;
(f) to control and appraise the progress of the Works, to order if
required the suspension of the Works, and/or to determine the amount
of extension of the period for completion of the Works after prior
consultation and agreement with the Employer;
(g) to issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix rates for
unpriced Works, to order day-works and/or to decide on alternatives,
provided that such measures will not increase the total cortract
price by more than 5Z;
(h) to prepare and issue certificates of payment to the Contractor and
to certify the completion of the Works or parts thereof;
(i) to inspect the Works during and/or after the Maintenance Period and
to issue the Maintenance Certificate;
Ci) to inspect the performance of the Works with regard to worksmanship
and compliance with the Specifications and to order, supervise or
perform tests on materials and/or Works before covering up and to
approve or disapprove the Contractors plant and equipment;



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(k) to order if required the uncovering of completed Works and/or the
removal and substitution of improper materials and/or Works;
(1) to check systematically the progress of the Works and to order the
initiation of certain Works which are part of the Contract;
(m)  to examine and attend the measurement of any work which is about to
be covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed
thereon and/or to examine and attend the measurement of the
completed Works;
(n) to check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other
statements with respect to arithmetical errors and compliance with
the Contract and if required, to make corrections thereof;
(o) to supervise the Contractor in all matt3rs concerning safety and
care of Works and if required to request from the Contractor the
necessary lights, guards, fencing, and watching; and
(p) to carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from
time to time be delegated in writing by the Engineer.
The Consultant shall prepare and imp>ement all the administrative
systems and procedures needed td ensure the effective supervision of the Works
in accordance with the scope of work outlined above and with generally
accepted international standards.
Training
The Consultant shall prepare a detailed training program for the
engineers assigned by SPTD to the joint supervisory teams. The program should
cover both formal and informal (on-the-job) training in construction
supervision and specifically:
(a) the organization and administration of the supervision of the road
Contract;
(b) quality control and testing to ensure compliance with specifica-
tions; and
(c) preparation of systems and procedures for recording progress,
quality control testing, costs, variations or extra works, progress
etc.
Staffing
The Consultant shall provide the requisite number of supervisory
staff to the joint supervision team who will be resident on the project and
who will be responsible for the overall supervision of the Contractor's
operations. Additional personnel such as inspectors, surveyors, and soil
technicians shall either be provided by the SPTD or be hired locally by the



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Consultant. The number of experienced and qualified staff for the work
involved shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of the project. The
Consultant's staff should be graduate engineers or equivalent with a least 12
years practical site experience on major road works in the following fields;
supervision and administration of major road contracts, tunnel construction
structural engineering including foundations, pavement design and construction
including earthworks, drainage, soils and materials engineering etc.
The Consultant shall purchase all equipment, office materials,
instruments and similar appurtenance he feels required over and above that
furnished by the Contractor. The Contractor shall furnish the Consultant
vehicles complete with maintenance, cost of operation and operators. A field
laboratory with the required equipment to carry out field materials testing
shall be furnished by the Construction Contractor. Operations and maintenance
cost of all equipment except vehicles shall be the responsibility of the
Consultant.
Control of the Work
The Consultant shall establish all P.I.'s and Bench Marks on the
ground. The Consultants shall supervise the initial engineering stakeout to
establish line and grade, setting stakes for alignment and structures, and
check and verify subsequent stakeout control by field survey parties supplied
by the Contractor to ensure satisfactory control of the work.
They shall submit for review and approval by the SPTD necessary
changes, improvements on the drawings, specif-cations and other work in
reasonable time to permit compliance with the design and construction
schedule.
They shall, however, make minor cnanges in grade or alignment as are
necessary to balance quantities, changes in size and skew of culverts etc.,
the extent of changes in alignment and grade the Consultant is permitted to
make without prior authority approval shall be 1.5 km in a continuous
measurement.
Material Inspection and Control
The Consultant shall carry out all test sampling in the field and
perform such tests as can be made in the Field Laboratory provided by the
Contractor to maintain quality control. Other inspection and testing of
materials and finished articles to be incorporated in the work may be made by
the Consultant or by a competent and acceptable independent inspection agency
subject to the authorization and approval of the SPTD and of no cost to the
Consultant.  The Consultant shall notify the Contractor of any defects in his
work and if necessary, stop operations concerned with the defective work until
the defects are corrected.
Measurement and Payment
The Consultant shall make field measurements of quantities of
materials incorporated in the project and maintain up-to-date books containing



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
such computations or other information concerning the use of construction
materials, properly segrated into sections of construction.
Periodic reports shall be prepared and transmitted to the SPTD
showing quantities incorporated in the work at the end of the each pay period,
and also showing monies earned by and due the contractor.
The Consultant shall maintain up-to-date records of remaining
quantities to be incorporated in the work, the cost estimates relating thereto
broken down into foreign and local currency components.
Claims and Arbitration
The Consultant shall review claims which the Contractor may present
for additional compensation and/or additional time allowances and recommend
appropriate action; perform change orders as necessary during the progress of
the work to cover possible changes within the general scope of the
construction contract. The Consultant will evaluate the Contractor's
requirement for payment and will certify the request or cause to have it
changed so that it can be certified.
The Consultant shall give his decisionR on all claims and accounts,
all questions, disputes, and differences which under the terms of the Contract
are left for his settlement and decisions and shall aid and assist the SPTD in
dealing with all other claims and accounts, disputes and differences relating
to the works..
The Consultant shall assist and advise the SPTD with regard to any
matter or thing which may be the subject of arbitration, inquiry or litigation
and if an when required by the SPTD he shall attend and give supporting
evidence and otherwise assist the SPTD before any court or in any arbitration
or at any inquiry dealing with any matters arising from or in connection with
the execution of the works.
The supporting evidence should contain sufficient information to
reveal 'the nature of the Contractor's complaint, circumstances pertaining
thereto, and the substance of any commitments made by either party in this
regard. A thorough coverage of the Contractor's operations relative to the
work in question should be maintained in the Daily Project Dairy. Comments
covering equipment and/or materials which may be involved, progress
maintained, should be included.
In the event of any arbitration or litigation if the Consultant is
called upon to assist before a Board of Arbitration proceedings or before a
court of Law he shall receive separate renumeration for his assistance in the
trial and finalization of the case.



_61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
V. RECORDS AND REPORTS
The Consultant shall maintain records of deviations or changes from
the contract plans, and provide one marked-up master set of drawings in such
manner that the original plans can be corrected by others to correspond with
the "As Built" conditions.
The Consultant shall provide all required services for
certifications of the project in accordance with the World Bank Loan Agreement
and subsequent letters of implementation.  He shall:
(a)  prepare and/or assist the SPTD in preparing periodic progress and
financial status reports, and prepare a final report on the project;
(b)  provide certification where required by the SPTD for interim and
final payments;
(c) provide the SPTD with such technical and engineering consultation
required in its day-to-day activities pertaining to the project, as
may be requested;
(d) keep records of all work done in the engineering and construction
phases of the work and make an activity and progress report for each
month of operation;
(e)  prepare estimated progress schedule report prior to beginning the
engineering work for the engineering phase; and
(f)  keep record of all payments approved and report such in the regular
monthly report. The regular monthly report will be made as of the
end of each calendar month and will contain three sections:
ti)    description of activities (with photographs)
(ii)    progress chart
(iii)    expenditure record.
These three sections will be correlated with the estimated activity
and progress schedules. The report will be signed by the Consultant and
fifteen copies submitted to the SPTD.  Two copies will be forwarded to the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank).



-62 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 1
SHAANXI HIGHWAY DATA BANK PREPARATION. PAVEMENT EVALUATION
AND STRENGTHENING PROGRAM AND MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT STUDY
Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The total length of the highway network in Shaanxi Province is
37,668 km of which about 13,600 or 362 are all-weather with a bituminous or
gravel surface. About 7,500 km of the paved road network is showing signs of
distress under the increasing traffic and need urgent strengthening. Further-
more, in recent years the Provincial Transport Department (PTD) has faced
increasing problems and costs in maintaining its road network due both to
substandard and aging pavements and to the growing heavy vehicle traffic
volumes.
2.       Therefore the PTD proposes to evaluate the condition of the paved
roads in order to prepare a strengthening program and to review the organiza-
tional and operational aspects of its paved road maintenance with a view to
bringing them up to date as necessary. Accordingly, to preserve the asset
value represented by the existing highway network and to provide for the
efficient and safe movement of traffic, the PTD has decided to carry out the
following study.
II. OBJECTIVES
3.       The study aims at (a) establishing a provincial road data base compa-
tible with national guidelines, comprising an inventory of permanent features
and current conditions of existing paved roads; (b) beginning regular monitor-
ing of the current condition of paved roads; (c) identifying pavement overlay
and strengthening needs and resource requirements for about 7,500 km of paved
roads; and (d) pilot implementation of a maintenance planning and management
system, compatible with national guidelines, to enable a systematic approach
to maintenance programming.
4.       As an urgent first phase under (b) above, the study will identify the
overlay and strengthening needs of roads adjacent to, or connecting with, the
proposed new San Yuan-Tongchuan highway.
III. SCOPE OF STUDY
A. General
5.       The study team shall perform all field investigations, engineering
studies, cost estimates, economic and financial analyses, and systems design,
as required to obtain the objectives given in the preceding Section II.



- 63 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. Scope of Work
6.       The project will consist of three parts of what will ultimately be an
integrated road management system. The parts will be carried out
concurrently:
Part I: Development and pilot implementation of a basic provincial road
data base, compatible with both the proposed national road data bank and
provincial needs, and comprising an inventory of permanent features, road
condition and traffic characteristics. The system should comprise basic
items initially, provide for regular updating and permit future expansion.
Part II: Selection and pilot implementation of a paved road management
model to serve as a tool for preparing maintenance programs. The model
should analyze the provincial road data base; identify maintenance needs
in accordance with specified intervention criteria; rank the needs by
economic return; permit interactive refinement of the resultant work
program to satisfy budget and other considerations; and be consistent with
national MOC recommendations.
Part III: Review and implement a pavement evaluation method for obtaining
data needed for the preparation of detailed road improvement and
strengthening programs. The method should utilize physical measures of
pavement strength, condition and traffic that are compatible both with the
new HOC deflection-based rehabilitation design method and also with the
national road data bank and the provincial road management system.
Part IV: Make preliminary evaluations of a 5-year policy and program for
the paved network, the impact of current and future traffic loading
levels, the need for capacity improvements, and institutional issues.
7.       To this end, the study team shall:
(a)  Prepare a current inventory of the entire paved road network in the
province comprising:
(i) A road features inventory, including identification of road
class, route number, province, maintenance district, maintenance
section, and section length; construction history and construc-
tion details (types and widths of pavement and shoulder,
gradient, curvature, drainage, terrain); traffic history;
regional freezing index and average precipitation.
(ii)  A traffic inventory for the network, including traffic counts by
vehicle type at selected points on the network, and load data of
heavy vehicles (as the data become available from (b) below or
other sources).
(iii)  A road condition survey, based on a simple, rapid inspection
method (such as drive-over, or sampling) to assess the approxi-
mate levels of pavement roughness (see Attachment A), pavement
distress, shoulder condition and drainage condition.



-64 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 3
(b)  Review and implement the method of pavement evaluation, based on the
research work of the MOC's Highway Scientific Research Institute, for
the identification and design of road improvement and strengthening
works; and conduct evaluation of a designated sample of paved roads
including the following:
(i)  Select and implement a physical method of measuring road rough-
ness in standard units of the international roughness index
(IRI), and conduct roughness measurements on the sample roads.
(ii) Assess pavement strength and construction characteristics on the
sample roads through standard surface deflection and other tests
as required for the design and evaluation of rehabilitation.
(iii)  Select and implement improved methods for traffic counting by
vehicle class and for sample weighing of heavy vehicle axles,
and conduct surveys at selected stations representing the sample
roads.
(iv) Consider modifying (ii) above to be undertaken in two stages for
roads unlikely to be scheduled for treatment within the first
two-year period, namely an immediate preliminary assessment
derived form a small sample of measurements followed by a later
detailed assessment conducted shortly before the scheduled time
of treatment.
(c)  Establish a provincial road data base for the storage of, and access
to, data collected under (a), and (b) above; and provide guidelines
for the collection, capture, audit and reporting of all items, in
accordance with national recommendations.
(d)  Review national recommendations and implement, on a pilot scale, a
system for the management of road maintenance and improvement,
including regular monitoring of the network, updating of the data
base and preparation of work programs. Evaluate the staffing and
costs of implementing the system and expanding the scope to unpaved
and local roads and bridges,' staffing and cost.
(e)  Prepare an indicative medium-term policy and program for the paved
network, based on an analysis 1/ of data collected under items (a)
and (b) above, and recommending:
(i)  a strategy for the allocation of budget resources to new
construction improvement and maintenance works;
(ii) appropriate intervention criteria for identifying improvement
and maintenance works;
(iii) a five-year program for improvement and strengthening works;
1/ Preferably, an available road policy evaluation model, such as HDM III,
RTIM2, etc. should be used for the analysis.



- 65 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
(iv) estimated expenditures for the five-year period; and
(v) the estimated impact of the program on the network in terms of
physical condition and economic benefits.
(f) provide advice on PTD on the implications from:
(i) an evaluation of the axle load survey results, the impact on
deterioration of the network and possible control measures for
vehicle loading;
(ii) an evaluation of the need for bus parking bays, traffic turning
bays, climbing or overtaking lanes, and acceleration/decelera-
tion lanes, including estimates of costs; and
(iii) an evaluation of the present maintenance organization at provin-
cial level, recommending organizational changes or improvements.
8.       Throughout the program outlined above the study team shall prepare
lists of specialized equipment, including computer hardware and software,
required for the work together with specifications and bid documents and shall
assist the PTD in the evaluation of bids or quotations and award of contracts.
C. Follow-up to the Study
9.       When the study has been completed the PTD will continually update the
detailed road inventory and expand its scope to include local roads using its
personnel who have been trained through their work during the study.
10.      Since the detailed condition inventory will form a substantial part
of the activity to prepare engineering designs for pavement improvement works,
the PTD must proceed with the inventory of the network at such a rate that the
established improvement may be implemented without interruption due to a lack
of designs.
11.      The PTD may require additional services from foreign experts during
the follow-up phase of the study in order to implement the new system andlor
to expedite the detailed pavement condition inventory over the whole road
network of the province.
IV. STAFF REQUIRED AND REPORTS TO BE SUBMITTED
A. Staff
12.      The study will be completed in about 15 months with a total of about
80 man-months including about 12 man-months of foreign expertise to train
local engineers in the field of pavement evaluation and management systems,
data base management and engineering and data processing. Additional man-
months of foreign technicians or engineers might be considered for using auto-
mated equipment for road condition assessment, adapting foreign computer
programs to computers available in China and for training Chinese counterpart
staff.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 5
B. Reports
13.      The Study Team will be required to submit the following reports in
Chinese (Mandarin) and English languages:
(a) inception report after 2 months of start-up;
(b) progress report monthly;
(c) interim report after 8 months;
(d) draft final report after 14 months; and
(e) final report after 15 months.
V. FACILITIES AND SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
14.      The PTD will assign a certain number of its personnel to work on the
Study Team on a iull-time basis. The detail regar ing the number, qualifica-
tion etc. for persons for such assignments will be determined on the basis of
the scope of work described in Section III.
15.      The PTD and the foreign experts will work out and agree on a list of
the facilities needed and the specialized equipment needed will be provided by
the foreign experts under their contract with the PTD on the basis of such a
list presented on the consultants' proposal.



- 67 -                      Attachment A
FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS OF MONITORING EQUIPMENT
A. Road Roughness Meter
Functional Purpose.  The meter makes standardization measurements of
road surface roughness, while travelling at highway speeds. Roughness causes
wear in a moving vehicle thus raising the operating costs, and influences
riding comfort, vehicle speed and safety. Large economic benefits are derived
from the reduction of roughness. Standardization is achieved by calibrating
the instrumented vehicle to the International Roughness Index (IRI) over
selected road sections; the IRI is determined from the longitudinal surface-
profile of the sections using a profiling method.
:
Brief Specifications and Estimates
(a)  roughness sensor with automatic readout          $10,000 - 20,000
and recording, custom-mounted in client's       ($30,000 - 60,000)
survey vehicle (or: supplied complete in
independent trailer);
(b)  road profile measuring device, for calibra-       $5,000 -  7,000
tion of roughness meter or surface level        ($15,000 - 20,000
tolerance measurement (or: TRRL beam
profilometer)



- 68 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Inplementation
Start    Complete
Part A - Highway Construction
- Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                           04/01/88   05/15/88
- Bid period                                               07/15/88   10/15/88
- Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                            06/15/88   12/31/88
- Appoint supervision staff                                08/01/88   10/01/88
- Select consultants for organization of
supervision of works and award contracts               10/01/88   02/01/88
- Construction of highway                                  02/01/89   02/01/91
Part B - Rural Roads
- Prepare specifications and bills of quantities
and submit for Bank review                            06/10/88   09/10/88
- Sign construction agreements                             10/01/88   12/31/88
Part C - Provision of Specialized Equipment for
Pavement Evaluation
- Prepare, with consultant assistance, equipment
lists, specifications and bid documents for
Bank review                                           03/01/89   06/30/89
- Invite bids                                              07/01/89   07/31/89
- Evaluate bids                                            08/01/89   08/15/89
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                             08/16/89   09/16/89
- Award contracts                                          09/20/89      -
- Delivery of equipment                                    12/01/89   12/31/89



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Implementation
Start    Complete
Part D - Provision of Laboratory Equipments for SPTD
Vocational Training School
- Prepare, with consultant assistance, equipment
lists, specifications and bid documents for
Bank review                                           03/01/89   06/30/89
- Invite bids                                              07/01/89   08/31/89
- Evaluate bids                                            09/01/89   09/30/89
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                              10/01/89   10/30/89
- Award contracts                                          11/15/89      -
- Delivery of equipment                                    03/15/90   04/15/90
Part E - Road Data Bank
- Preparation of system                                    06/01/88   12/31/88
- Collection of data                                       01/01/89   06/30/90
- Preparation of software                                  01/01/89   06/30/90
- Identification of hardware needs                                    12/31/88
- Preparation of specifications and bid
documents for computer systems                         06/01/89   08/31/89
- Invite bids                                              09/01/89   10/31/89
- Evaluate bids                                            11/01/89   12/31/89
- Review by Bank                                           01/01/90   03/31/90
- Award contracts                                          04/01/90      -
- Testing and delivery                                     06/01/90   07/01/90
Part F - Consulting Services
- Assistance in supervision and training for
construction supervision                             02/01/89   02/01/91
- Assistance in pavement evaluation and preparation
of a pavement strengthening and betterment
program including equipment procurement               03/01/89   10/31/89
- Assistance in setting up a road data bank
including equipment procurement                       01/01/89   06/01/90
- Assistance in training SPTD staff via studies,
seminars and workshops                                 11/01/88   12/31/90
Part G - Staff Training
- Selection of trainees                                    11/01/88   12/31/88
- Placement of trainees                                    01/01/89   12/31/90



-70 -                                ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
CHINA
SRAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indices
Actual as   Reason for  Action
Esti-                2 of      difference  to be
Project component                                  mated    Actual   estimated    (if any)   taken
Highway Construction
Contract awards
Earthworks completed (m3)
Paving completed (km)
Culverts (number)
Bridges (number)
Construction work completed
Maintenance certificate issued
Completion certificates issued
Final cost
Rural Roads Construction
Construction agreements signed
Construction (km)
Culverts (numbers)
Bridges (numbers)
Construction completed
Supervision of Construction (man-months)
Consultant Services
Supervision of Construction
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Supervision organization, procedures
and systems agreed by SPTD and Bank
Supervision staff appointed
Office and laboratory buildings
constructed
Laboratory equipment in place
Supervision of construction in progress



- '-1                                        ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Actual as   Reason for  Action
Esti-                 X of      difference  to be
Project component                                    mated    Actual   estimated    (if any)   taken
Pavement Evaluation/
Road Data Bank
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Preparation of system
Collection of data
Software preparation
Identify hardware
Preparation of specification and
bid document for computer system
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Test hardware and software
Delivery
Paved Road Strengthening
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Identify equipment
Prepare specifications and
bid documents
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Equipment delivery
l~~~~~~~~~~



- 72-                              ANNEX 5
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports
A.1 CHINA: Long-Term Development Issues and Options, World Bank,
September 1985
A.2 Statistical Yearbook of China, 1984, State Statistical Bureau, Pac.
A.3 Statistical Yearbook of Shaanxi Province, 1986
B. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.1 CHINA: Long-Term Development Issues and Options, Annex 6: The
Transport Sector, World Bank, September 1985
B.2 Transport Sector Paper, December 10, 1984, AEPTR
B.3 Basic Data on the Chinese Highway Subsector - Answers to Questions
(Chinese with English translation)
C. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.1 Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway Project. Feasibility Study Report, Shaanxi
Provincial Transport Department, December 1986
C.2 Rural Road Feasibility Reports for:
- Shangxian-Zhashui road,
-  Shangnan-Jiepaiya road, and
- Pingli-Zhenping road.
Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department, January 1988
C.3  Feasibility Reports on the Repair of Flood Damage to Rural Roads:
- Zehe-Manchuan road, and
- Shangxian-Shagao road.
Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department, January 1988
C.4  Environmental Protection Report on the Sanyuan-Tongchuan Highway
Construction, Shaanxi Provincial Transport Department, January 1988



Chart 1
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
The Relatlonship Between Central and Provinciol Transport Departments
Provincial Transpox
I                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Depctrtments  _ _
PrwnciI Highway
'                                                          I       8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urt,Ous  I_ _
Drefeten&ts
COunty Tro S ections               TonhpAto
Rod o         SeInkodscountv Roads                                                 Comrmune Roods
T he t ~e lirnes sxaw the control over policy & odrninse rn
2the S0bCt tint show the ctue contft over finctncKs XCem     son tSom
cdut Y          mconitive issuusi.                                                                             Wood Bank-26423
October 198S



CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of The Provincial Transport Department
And The Highway Administration Bureau
Shaanxi
Provincial Transport
Department
High Standard                          Transport
Automobile         Xian Bus             Road             Highway           Technical
Parts            SainConstruction                      Design           Vocational
Company            SainCommand-                         Institute          School
Of fice
HighwayHihaXingwy
Local Tax        Construction      Hdiighwayio        Transportation      ResanrHihwa
Division         Command             Bureau             School            Institute
Office
EK'*41642
et
r   l   l    l             R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



I IrS' lOli' too'          '104                       107'                     10'           '          10           ..                                                             27
CHINA
SHAANXI PROVINCAL HIC.HWAY PROJECT                                                                                     ro 0,0,00u/
TRANSPORT NETWORK                                                                                                                                I
SHAANXI PROVINCE                                                                       E,o    ' H.. 0
ROPOS'ED PROJECT.                                                                  Ejn 00C00
-loy4 ond Rurcl Rood,                                                                                                   '(      ' /w$on
.E-0r900y Flrod R,pdl, to Roool Rood.
_    Pn Y100, hligty proItdL-00 2S39 CHA/Coadli 159J CHA)
_    NatIonal roads                                                                                    :                             1
30'     ~-                     ORoondOty roOdO                                                                           i.0                  /        3Au\3'
-      Ailp.- Root
Hi."rt                                       NEI MONGGOL ZIZHIQU                                           ,Shm|O.
- a- PneewoN  bootdoril- ,
_  _   roolnoC boo'.didrlct                                                              )/ 
-   _   tnl.ro,lO   toundorot                                                            /            / IIo 510 Nr
/       i8Yln              (           \\              L  X
-2Ris  rO r,wbuan    /     \ ;vS Lit 004fQJ           SHANXI
>,_ ....... 8-< ! / \''~~ULIN                              ZoOh,ooh                          F.ng
DI bio.
NINGXIA HUIZ   IZHIQU (*-                                                                                                              )  zoooo2Hjr9
C   <   \    ~~~~~~~~~~$/                                       hen2     \                           5    rEiHUo X3n~~~~~~~~~0engooO
X                                                     Qino,  >   G  N e <N   q \    lol                       37
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~     ~      -
I rX-4<= ;'-9-' I\ .tw)>---/'''3 I                                                                                                                                        , I
~~                        00fl oat      ~                                        Yonoo        Ro~oOxi..      oning                           90Ro
34' , t   sAN                                                                                                                                                                                        3 '
f Ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RtYo 5  -.)J>~-Hu\  Nord,oARg                                                                                 Tnvos
/   7t/~~~~~~J           -XOVIba  ,                  lh ~~~~~~~~~~Nb xi  O9             9t xi..5lyn>~
* ,  g ;  pN imilang                    ,--o .( (\0                                    t.ng b x n                               m     o     N    _ +
Zht KILOMETE,R8rO                                                                                        - in'.. d.ybZb1Y 0 t
ICR                                                                                                               no...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x.
O0V0OO0~~ .oOge~Ot.  0.00..
-35-                                                                              T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40  ooOot                         0,,.4



*\     NLI   MONGGOL    dFdNG.9e's4'  *'  ' em  .'                     Jiooping        ro   Yonoo a'.                                 s .
. *  0 KOREP'O K *W                                                                               - c0 
NEI~ MONQOOL UW,NO`:~*.t;4-                                                                                                         '..
. . )Ekm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  4i~~~~~~~~UOLIC-~ -r Ia
- .0                                                                                                    .on,o,OF
Q/N G H4U  .   ^  ,   SH A NL  -  o ~K O    R' C E                   Jlin s u o g u o n a  _L
0fN0U4i AJ
VANSJ r     ENAN 'JL4P4.SL       JAPAN                                                                                     -,
X 1, HENAN    itAhkisu ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     -K,~o
X                                   .                                    x : -  :  s * ^ / , Houliu            t      d
5ICHUAN    , HUBEI   -.
-  HUNAN ,                                                                                                                'i    
( TLJNNAN                                                                                                   T~~~~ME                 o So,sh,,,
frNNAN                        IA(WAN U~ooo<\\|
GUANGXI OUANGODON*
BUR,'~~tA K-14~7  I1-"6NO KO0t0. U K
BUA%  'E, NA         ACO. " u                                                            i         TONGCHUAN
_ri-)DEM R6t      H
.      IH a  ..     "<  _/ i    0, HIPINS _C
.                          CHIN >- xCH IuNnkou
Archaeological        J50 
SHAANXI PROVINCIAL                                         Area
HIGHWAY PROJECT                                    -                   rzho
SANYUAN - TONGCHUAN HIGHWAY
Proposed Project:                                                                                                     T 1  r0 Pcheo3
Sonyuon - Tongchuan Highway                     -         -  aoion                                                   & to,gheog
New Bridges to be Constructed >I100 Meters            /
0     Interchanges
Previous Highway Project
-    Notional Roads
Secondary Roads
-4-I Railroads                                                                                           7
N |   '    '  \          /                       To Hanche.g
N To Xoy.                                                                          ping 
Wayaotoo)
3440     ,                            *                                                                                                    $4=40-
t YunSn9F- -           .  > _ ~ Yanliong
Yunyan ---  
t   To 8jn X:on            \      x,                    /          },                        / X-
l  f JV<gyang       -      \                 tGooling
'1<        -   --                                 \                                  /        rTo Wvno,
To Q.on X:oo ,-               -
34'20                                                                                                                                       20
s<  Xingping          --s         %                                                    f>KILO-METERS
Hu Xian =Hn
0To B~Oj. 4. -                                                   1~eoo'            (                 -      To Lont,an               APRIL 1988



