Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2952 CHA
(Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHAANXI PROVINCE
Dated February 27, 1988
LOAN NUMBER 2952 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHAANXI PROVINCE (Shaanxi).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Shaanxi agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Shaanxi, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Shaanxi declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project through SPTD, under the general supervision of MOC, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and highway practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Shaanxi shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. Shaanxi shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Shaanxi shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Shaanxi of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 2.05. Shaanxi shall carry out the resettlement under the Project in 
accordance with the plan agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shaanxi shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition in respect to the activities related to the 
Project. 
(b)
Shaanxi shall:
 
(i)
have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above, for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
the audit thereof, as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shaanxi 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify Shaanxi thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Shaanxi:
Shaanxi Provincial People's Government
Xin Cheng, Xian
Shaanxi Province
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Xian 2201
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shaanxi or by 
Shaanxi on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Governor of Shaanxi 
or such other person or persons as the Governor shall designate in writing, and the 
Governor shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHAANXI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhao Xixin
Authorized Representative
