Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  19394
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3171-MOR)
June 9, 1999
Human Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Moroccan Dirhams (MAD)
1990         US$1.00 = MAD 8.12
1991         US$1.00 = MAD 8.19
1992         US$1.00 =MAD 8.15
1993         US$1.00 = MAD 9.03
1994         US$1.00 = MAD 9.56
1995         US$1.00 =MAD 9.07
1996         US$1.00 = NMA4D 8.48
1997         US$1.00 = MAD 8.83
1998         US$1.00 = MAD 9.66
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          African Development Bank
AIDS         Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
INAS         National School of Administration (Institut National d Administration Sanitaire)
BAJ          Barnamaj Aoulaomiat Ijtimia - Social Priority Program
DOTS         Directly Observed Therapy Short Course
FAD          Afiican Development Fund (Fonds Africain de Developpement)
HSIP/PRISS   Health Sector Investment Project (Projet dI'nvestissement dans le Secteur de la Sante)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
HFMP         Health Financing and Management Project
MOH          Ministry of Health
PFGSS        Health Financing and Management Project (Projet de Financement et de Gestion
du Secteur de la Sant6)
PMU          Project Monitoring Unit
SSN          Basic Health (Soins de Sante de Base)
STD          Sexually Transmitted Diseases
SEGMA        Semi Autonomous Facilities (Service Etatique Gere de Maniere Autonome)
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
UNFPA        United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
WHO          World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
Vice President:     Kemal DerviE
Country Director:   Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:    Jacques Baudouy
Sector Manager:     George Schieber
Task Team Leader:   Mlaryse Pierre-Louis



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Summary of Assessment
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................   1
A. PROJECT DESCRIPTION .1
1. The project as initially designed.                                 1
2. Modification of the project design.                                2
B. PROJECT EVALUATION.                                                        3
1. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                 3
2. Main Achievements.                                                 3
3. Major Factors Affecting the Project. 
4. Project Sustainability.                                            6
5. Bank's Perforance.                                                 7
6. Borrower's Performance.                                            8
7. Assessment of Project Outcome.                                     8
8. Future Operations.                                                 9
9. Key Lessons Leamed .10
PART 11 - SUMMARY OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BY THE GOVERNMENT ........................................................................... 11
Introduction    ..11
1. Background .11
2. Project Identification .12
3. Project Objectives .12
4. Project Execution .12
5. Project Results .13
5.1 Civil Works          ..13
5.2 Health care coverag        ..14
5.3 Health care progras    ..14
5.4 Strengthening of infrastructure and facilities for diagnosis and treatment.  15
5.5 Training    ..15
5.6 Technical assistance       ..16
5.7 Sectoral refor         ..16
5.8 Financial situation of the project  ..18
6. Sustainability of Project Achievements .18
6.1 Technical sustainability     ..18
6.2 Financial sustainability    ..18
7. Lessons Leared .19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



iv
PART III - STATISTICAL TABLES ............................. 21
Table  1:                            Summary of Assessments ..........................................    22
Table 2:                             Related Bank Loans ...........................................                                  24
Table 3:                            Project Timetable ...........................................                                   26
Table 4:                             Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......  27
Table 5:                             Key Indicators for Project Implementation .......................   27
Table 6:                             Key Indicators for Project Operation ..............................    27
Table 7:                             Studies Included  in Project ........................................                          27
Table 8A:                            Project Costs ...........................................                                       28
Table 8B:                           Project Financing ............................................                                  28
Table 9:                             Economic Cost and Benefits .......................................    29
Table  10:                           Status of Legal Covenants .........................................                            29
Table 11:                           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............   30
Table  12:                           Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs .....................................    30
Table  13:                           Bank Resources:  Missions ........................................    31



v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Loan 3171-MOR
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Health Sector Investment
Project, for which a loan equivalent to US$104.0 million was approved by the Board on February
20, 1990 and became effective on September 11, 1990.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1998, after two extensions. The original closing
date was December 31, 1995. The last disbursement was made on April 7, 1999, with
cancellation of the sum of US$10.032 million, bringing the amount of the loan down to US$93.96
million.
The ICR was prepared by Maryse Pierre-Louis, Sr. Population and Health Specialist, of
the Middle East and North Africa Human Development Group (MNSHD), and was reviewed by
Jacques Baudouy, Director, MNSHD, George Schieber, Health Sector Manager for the Region,
Marisa Femandez-Palacios, Maghreb Portfolio Manager, and Ms Thu-Ha Nguyen, of the
Disbursements Division.
The Borrower has submitted Part II of the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR is based on information drawn from project files, discussions in
the field with the persons in charge of the appraisal and supervision of the project, and
information gathered by the Loan Closing Mission which took place from January 25 to February
12, 1999 and which comprised: Maryse Pierre-Louis (Senior Population and Health Specialist,
Mission Leader), Christian Rey (Senior Portfolio Officer), Albert Sales (Public Health Specialist),
Claude Ghouzi (Certified Public Accountant), and Rene Lecysyn (Architect). Ms. Eileen
Sullivan contributed to this report which also benefited from comments from Ms. Claire Voltaire
(MNSHD) and Jean-Jacques de St Antoine (LAC). Ms. Juliana Weissman (LAC) provided useful
comments and valuable historic background on the project at the time of preparation and during
the early phase of implementation. Ms. Claudine Kader provided the necessary support to the
finalization of this report.



vi
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Loan 3171-MOR
Summary of Assessment
Introduction
The objectives of the Health Sector Investment Project (HSIP/PRISS) were to assist the
Government in financing the first phase of a long-term effort to re-establish sustainable public
health programs nationwide and to strengthen first-level referral services and the administration
and management of health services in general. To accomplish these objectives, the project was
subdivided into three components:  restoration of basic health services; strengthening of
emergency, diagnostic and referral services; and administrative and policy reforms in the health
sector. The project built on pilot scale efforts financed under the Health Development Project
(Ln. 2572-MOR), especially for primary health care activities.
Summary of conclusions and key lessons learned
The project objectives were consistent with the strategies of both the Government and the
Bank at the time. However, they were very ambitious, and it is regrettable that steps were not
taken during project preparation to ensure stricter prioritization of the many issues facing the
Ministry of Health at that time. Overall, the project objectives were only partially accomplished.
The project represented an important tool in reorienting health sector policy toward basic
health care and vulnerable population groups and in building sector knowledge and capacity.
However, there are marked differences to the extent to which the three types of targeted health
programs were actually strengthened (public health programs, primary care and emergency
services). In the area of public health programs, the project objectives were fully achieved. In
terms of primary care, the results were somewhat uneven. Although there was a revival of
activities in basic health facilities, it is difficult to assess the related project impact, given the
persistence of serious problems affecting operations (for example, shortage of essential drugs)
and the inadequacy of statistical data on quality of care. Lastly, the strengthening of emergency
and first-level referral services was severely affected by the delays in completing the civil works.
On the institutional side, the project supported studies on the organization of the Ministry of
Health at the central level and peripheral levels, on health financing, hospital management and
information systems, and the establishment of certain important training programs. However, the
development of the sector's financing reforms is still underway.
The key lessons to be learned from implementation of this project are: (i) a project's
objectives must be realistic and geared to a selected few of the priorities identified in the sector
strategy; (ii) a good balance must exist between project activities designed to achieve physical
rehabilitation and those intended to improve operation of the services; (iii) investment projects
must be linked to a well-defined sector strategy; (iv) the project management procedures must be
well understood by the different stakeholders at both central and provincial levels, so that they
can properly play their respective roles; (v) an efficient coordination and monitoring unit is an
essential requirement for successful project implementation; (vi) with respect to civil works, it is
essential to have a pre-established masterplan for each hospital and a program designed to
minimize contingencies; (vii) the decentralization of responsibilities to the provincial level is a



vii
key feature of successful project implementation; (viii) the definition, at the beginning of the
project, of clear monitoring and evaluation indicators would have allowed a more systematic
project assessment; (ix) strong support to the implementation of public health program is essential
to their good performance and (x) more continuity in Bank supervision would have been
beneficial.
The Government will most likely continue to emphasize priority health programs and the
improvement of basic health care, as confirmed by the loans and grants provided to the sector in
the wake of this project. However, despite this favorable context, the project's sustainability is
uncertain, since the share of the Government budget allocated to health has basically remained
unchanged from 1987 to 1998 (which is insufficient) and since it is linked to key strategic factors
(for some of which the Government has initiated or about to initiate considerable actions): (i) the
deconcentration/decentralization policy for the sector; (ii) improvement of the sector's financing
mechanisms, including a cost-recovery policy; (iii) the Government's capacity to maintain an
adequate financial budget for priority health activities targeting vulnerable groups; (iv)
implementation of efficient management systems at all levels, particularly in the hospital context;
and (v) improvement of factors that are extemal to the health sector but affect the health
conditions of the population (education, water supply, civil service reform).



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
Loan 3171-MOR
PART I
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    The project as initially designed
1.    Objectives. The objectives of the Health Sector Investment Project (HSIP/PRISS) were
threefold:  (i) reestablish sustainable health programs nationwide, reinforce priority health
programs in primary care and at the first level of referral, and obtain maximum yield from past
infrastructure investment; (ii) strengthen the administration and management of services
provided by MOH in order to increase efficiency, control costs and facilitate the implementation
of administrative reforms designed to decentralize the management of health services; and (iii)
promote sector and policy reforms which address longer term issues related to the evolution and
structure of the public and private sector health services delivery systems, financing mechanisms,
and the mobilization of resources in support of the sector. The project built on pilot scale efforts
financed by the Health Development Project (Ln. 2572-MOR) which has helped establish
standards and institutional arrangements for the delivery of primary heath care. These objectives
were clearly described in the January 1990 Appraisal Report. They were consistent with the
Government's strategy (Five Year Plan 1988-1992) and directly addressed the major concerns of
the Ministry of Health. They were also consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy,
particularly in terms of mitigating the negative impact of the structural adjustment period on the
Ministry of Health's budget.
2.    Components.  The project had three components:
*  Restoration of basic health services (US$109.5 million) through: (i) the renovation
and rehabilitation of rural hospitals, dispensaries and health centers; (ii) the provision
of furniture, medical equipment, vehicles, essential drugs, materials and supply; and
(iii) technical assistance for the development of technical manuals, architectural
services for civil works, training of personnel and epidemiological studies and
surveys.
* Strengthening/rehabilitation of referral and emergency services (US$55 million)
through: (i) the renovation of hospital emergency services; (ii) the renovation and
equipment of maintenance centers in each of five regional hospitals; (iii) the
equipment of 30 provincial hospitals; (iv) training in emergency medicine; and (v)
international technical assistance for the development and implementation of national
standards for emergency care; and
* Administrative. Sector and Policy Reform (US$6.8 million) through: (i) equipment of
provincial administrative units, construction of administrative buildings, (ii) training



2
in management and administration, information systems; and (iii) policy and program
studies.
3.    Inputs. The project provided for: (i) rehabilitation and equipment of rural hospitals,
dispensaries, health centers, and construction of provincial administrative buildings; (ii) vehicles;
(iii) consulting services for the development of technical manuals, architectural services;
continuing education, development of national standards for emergency care and policy and
program studies; and (iv) training of personnel.
4     Implementation Arrangements. From 1990 to 1994 the project was managed by a unit
located within the Division of Planning, Statistics and Information Technology and from 1995
onward within the Directorate of Planning and Financial Resources, after the reorganization of
the Ministry. The project coordination was done by the coordination committee which included
the main directorates of the Ministry. The organization of the project unit remained the same
during project implementation.
5.    Cost and Financing. The project financing plan included an IBRD loan of US$104.0
million and a Government contribution of US$67.3 million. The project was to be completed by
June 1995.
6.    Agreements at Negotiations. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
it would carry out a program in support of selected sector reforms in accordance with an
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank. The plan included the following measures: (i)
within twelve months after the rehabilitation of each hospital included in the project, the hospital
would be authorized to retain all fees which it collects for services in order to apply such fees
toward the coverage of its operating expenses; (ii) an improved fee collection system which is
designed to ensure billing and facilitate collection of fees for all services rendered by the hospital
would be developed and introduced by June 30, 1992; (iii) a study of the nature and extent of the
provision by the private sector of health care services would be prepared and furnished to the
Bank for its review and medium-term program to promote the development of private health care
services would be developed; and (iv) a study to identify and recommend suitable ways to
rationalize public and private sector health insurance systems, and to expand progressively the
coverage of said system, would be carried out and a copy of the study would be provided to the
Bank by December 21, 1991, after which views would be exchanged with the Bank on the results
and recommendation of this study with a view to devising a suitable strategy for such
rationalization and expansion over the medium-term.
2.    Modification to the project design
7.    During project implementation, the African Development Bank helped the Government
with the construction of new community health centers (156). As a result, the proceeds of the
PRISS were reallocated toward hospital emergency services'. The rehabilitation of provincial
hospital emergency services increased from 14 (in the staff appraisal report) to 30. No
amendments were made to the Loan Agreement itself, except to defer the loan closing dates.
Reall'ation confirmed by the Bank by telex, dated June 22, 1994.



3
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Objectives
8.    The project objectives aimed at developing public health programs were substantially
achieved. Good progress was also made to improve overall health sector policies and institution
building.  In the other areas, including the rehabilitation of physical infrastructure, and
improvement of health services, the project objectives were only partially achieved. During the
mid-term review, which took place between April 19 and May 4, 1994, the Bank and the
Government agreed that the project objectives, as defined during the preparation phase, reflected
the overall vision for the sector and did not require any further modification. Also, as 70 percent
of the loan had already been committed by that time, it was assumed that the planned activities
could still be carried out within the original timeframe.
9.    The project objectives were probably over-ambitious, and it is regrettable that there was
not stricter prioritization of the many issues facing the Ministry of Health at that time. Among
other conditions, the project required the Government to implement, simultaneously and within a
relatively short timeframe (and right during the structural adjustment period): (i) a major program
to improve services at several levels nationwide; (ii) a major administrative reform of the
Ministry of Health; and (iii) measures to prepare the sector's financial reform. The project was
plagued by major implementation drawbacks (see para. 3 on major factors affecting the project)
which could not be overcome despite a three-year extension.
2.    Main Achievements
-  Sector policy. The project represented an important tool in reorienting sector policy
toward primary health care services and the most vulnerable population groups. This
policy has been reflected and strengthened by most of the development programs that
have followed the PRISS, and its contribution in this area may be regarded as
substantial. The project also helped finance major studies on health financing,
hospital management and information systems. Towards the end of the project, some
40 hospitals became autonomous (SEGMA) with partial cost-recovery.
*  Institution building The project financed studies on the organization of the Ministry
of Health at the central and peripheral levels, on the decentralization of human
resources and the introduction of new information systems. The PRISS also made a
substantial contribution to improving human resource management, thanks both to
studies conducted on specific aspects and to the establishment of important training
programs. Between 1991 and 1995, for example, an average of 5,500-6,000 health
workers benefited from training each year under programs instituted by the project.
At the same time, the project facilitated adoption of the strategy for decentralizing
continuing education and the introduction of new approaches in this area. However,
the overall objective to decentralize the management of health services, thanks to the
implementation of administrative reforms has not yet been fully achieved. Overall,
the institutional objectives have been partially achieved.
* Physical activities. Substantial progress was made in the case of certain activities,
such as the rehabilitation of primary health care centers, but the results were largely
insufficient regarding the upgrading of emergency and first-level referral services.
Overall, the project failed to achieve its physical objectives satisfactorily. The
second component, originally designed to strengthen the emergency units of 14



4
hospitals, was reoriented in the second year of implementation to cover overall
improvement of the hospital infrastructure in 30 provincial hospitals (see para. below
related to emergency and first-level referral services; and page 2 para.7). The
magnitude of this program was visibly beyond the planning and coordination
capacities of the relevant central government departments.
* Improvement of health services. The project objectives for the reinforcement of basic
health services programs were only partially achieved. However, there are marked
differences in the outcomes for the three principal types of service targeted: public
health programs, primary care at the health center level, and first-level referral
services, including emergency services.
Public health programs. The project objectives were fully achieved. The quality
and number of services delivered rose considerably and there was a marked
decline in the health problems covered by those programs. A typical case was
that of tuberculosis control; a program which benefited particularly from the
HSIP, the tuberculosis control program showed substantial improvements in
nearly all aspects: screening, treatment strategy, drug availability, training of
health care personnel, etc. With over 90 percent rate of detection of infected
cases and a 90 percent rate of successful treatment, this program is now
considered by the World Health Organization as one of the most effective of its
kind in the world. The tuberculosis control program is not an isolated case, and
excellent progress was also made in most of the other programs: schistosomiasis
control, malaria (eradication of both diseases is scheduled for 2004), leprosy
(down to 80 new cases per year), AIDS and other sexually transmissible diseases
(STDs), diseases of the eye, and the large-scale vaccination program.2
Primary care. The project has only partially achieved its objectives in terms of
reinforcing basic health services at the health center level. The health centers
located in the project's target areas seem to have experienced a marked increase
in activity, a possible sign of improvement in the quality of care and enhanced
credibility. There have been definite improvements in the infrastructure, and
regional Ministry of Health officials also note some progress in terms of skilled
personnel availability. However, it is difficult to judge the real impact of the
project based on these factors. First of all, the relevant statistics are inadequate
(not only with respect to the situation at the start of the project, but also in terms
of the situation as it stands today). Next, the rehabilitation of the health centers is
still recent and serious operational problems, such as frequent depletion of
essential drug stocks and lack of motivation for workers in isolated rural areas,
still persist. Under these circumstances, it is difficult to credit only the PRISS for
the improvement of some indicators like the increase of the number of women
who benefited from prenatal care (from 25% in 1992 to 42% in 1997) or the
increase of the percentage of assisted deliveries (from 31% in 1992 to 43% in
1997)3.
2       The main programs supported by the project were: tuberculosis, STDs, malaria, leprosy, AIDS, hygiene and sanitation,
ocular diseases, schistosomiasis, family planning, immunization, prenatal care. Unlike tuberculosis, these programs were also heavily
supported by other development projects, so that their success may be only partially attributed to the PRISS.
3       These indicators are mentioned in the main text of the SAR. However, the breakdown shows significant urban/rural gaps
in the increase of these indicators between 1992 and 1997: coverage of prenatal care increased from 61 to 69% in the urban areas
(against 1S to 200/. in rural areas); likewise, the percentage of assisted deliveries increased from 64 to 70% in urban areas (against 13
to 20% in rural areas). Source: MOH statistics. Approximately 50% of the population live in rural areas.



5
Emergency and first-level referral services (rural hospitals). These services
were so severely affected by the delays in civil works that it is almost impossible
to assess the project outcome under this heading. Given the fact that the full
implementation of these activities required, first, infrastructure rehabilitation, it is
obviously not possible to assess the achievement of objectives until the health
facilities concerned are fully operational. This is still not the case for most of the
health facilities covered by the project. At the end of the project, only 10 (out of
30) emergency units were fully rehabilitated. Another serious constraint in the
implementation of this component was the original lack of consensus concerning
the role of emergency services in the overall health system, which seems to
persist to date, despite the elaboration of a strategy on emergency services.
Financing of health sector investments. Given that the project to a large extent
aimed at boosting pre-project investments held up by the economic difficulties of
the late eighties, the achievements under this heading must be considered
unsatisfactory because the civil works were still not completed at a significant
number of sites at the project's closing date (see para. above).
3.     Major Factors Affecting the Project
The project's implementation benefited from the Government's commitment to
policy improvement and institution building in the health sector. Another positive factor
was the progress made in upgrading the skills of a large number of senior Ministry of
Health officials and the professionalism they displayed.
On the negative side, the following major factors were identified4:
Factors related to project design
v the project's multiplicity of objectives and the vagueness of certain components;
* failure to balance adequately, the physical rehabilitation activities and the supporting
measures for improving health services management and operation.
Factors beyond the Government's control
* default on the part of the technical consultants and architectural firms responsible for
supervising the infrastructure works;
* default on the part of small contractors that were highly vulnerable to cash flow
problems and obliged to stop work if they were not paid on time.
Factors under the Government's control
* weaknesses in management of the project itself, such as:
-      on the civil works side, a total lack of consistency between budget planning and
the annual scheduling of allocations, undocumented delays in payment, and
excessive centralization of the financial and technical management of project
Partly due to the fact that some studies financed by the Health Development Project had not yet been completed at the time
of project appraisal.



6
activities; delays in the implementation of the civil works was the main reason
why the project was extended twice in an effort to achieve project development
objectives aimed at strengthening emergency and first -level referral services;
on the financial management side, the statements of account submitted by the
project unit did not provide an adequate overall picture of the project's financial
status, even at the end of the project;
on the administrative management side, the coordination unit lacked the human
and material resources necessary to its smooth operation and had no leverage
over the other directorates.
*  weaknesses in the sector development strategy: the Government's commitment to
reorient the health sector strategy was evident, but it seems that at the start of the
PRISS, a "vision" of the future health system (for example, the respective roles of the
different levels of care) was still not clearly defined. In addition, the decision to
expand the primary health care network (through the construction of 156 health
centers) did not correspond to the orientation agreed upon at the time of project
preparation which was to place the emphasis on improvement of the functioning of
the existing network and to expand it only when its full operating potential had been
achieved and when financing policies had been developed; this further increased the
imbalance between infrastructure development and the availability of operating
resources.
* weaknesses in sector management: the Ministry of Health reorganization mentioned
above was a lengthy process, which clearly affected the project5;
4. Project Sustainability
There is every reason to believe that the Government will maintain the sector
strategy orientations introduced with the PRISS, a vital requirement for the project's
sustainability.  The decisions taken over the past few  years to approve several
development projects (for example, the BAJ, PFGSS and EU projects), which have
pursued and reinforced the general objectives of the PRISS, is particularly welcome in
this respect. There are also certain facts of a more technical nature which are very
encouraging, such as the expected eradication, upon completion of the BAJ, of several
diseases (leprosy, schistosomiasis) representing a serious public health problem at the
start of the PRISS.6
In this favorable context, the sustainability of the PRISS remains uncertain since
it is closely linked to activities and policies which have not been easy to implement so far
(and which have been launched recently), including:
*  pursuing resource deconcentration and administrative decentralization of the sector;
*  strengthening of the management and quality of the health services, and of adequate
support systems, particularly in the area of health personnel training and deployment,
essential drug policy and management, and infrastructure repair and maintenance;
5      This was mainly due to tum over of staff.
6      The BAJ, approved in December 1996, has strengthened a number of the activities financed by the PRISS, and will make
an enormous contribution to ensuring the latter's sustainability.



7
*  putting in place an effective incentive system, designed to attract more skilled and
motivated personnel at all levels, particularly in the disadvantaged rural areas;
*  more accurate targeting of the most vulnerable population groups - particularly the
poor in rural areas and, within that group, women of childbearing age and young
children;7
*  improvement in sector financing and the Government's capacity to provide financing
for those priority activities that will long remain its exclusive responsibility (for
example, public health programs such as tuberculosis control, AIDS and other STDs
etc., vaccination and family planning, and safe motherhood). In this context, it is
worth stressing the fact that from 1989 to 1998, MOH budget, as a percentage of the
Government budget, has essentially remained the same (from 4.9% in 1989 to 4.78%
for the period 1998-99).8
The project's sustainability is also an issue in the particular case of infrastructure
rehabilitation and development, since those actions have been expanded to include a large
number of facilities, many more than originally planned, but with the same financing
package. This could lead to maintenance problems over the short to medium term, and to
the need to resume works that have been only partially completed by loan closure.
Finally the project sustainability will depend greatly on the improvement of
factors, outside the heath sector, which are known to have an impact on health status
namely education, access to potable water, improvement of hygiene and poverty
reduction.
5. Bank Performance
The Bank's overall performance was unsatisfactory. Certain weaknesses may be
identified at all phases of the project. The project represented an appropriate and timely
response to the Government's needs, particularly in terms of rehabilitation of the health
sector infrastructure, strengthening of the Ministry of Health's organizational framework,
and sector policy reorientation. Nevertheless, it would have been better if the project had
been less complex and had focussed on a smaller number of priority activities,
particularly at the end of the structural adjustment period. This major weakness in the
project design is particularly difficult to comprehend, since it was well known at the time
of the appraisal that the Government might not have sufficient capacity to implement the
project.
Project preparation and appraisal have also been hampered by the failure to
clearly define the activities to be financed by the project and to identify key indicators by
which to evaluate these objectively. While it is true that a certain flexibility is desirable,
several activities were still being discussed right up until the end of the project (for
example, the emergency services' role in the care delivery system) while others were
never clearly defined (for example, project activities to lay the groundwork for the
sector's financial reform).
The Bank's supervision missions were conducted regularly, and the skill mix of
the supervision teams was adequate on the whole. However, there was some lack of
7      In this area, the sustainability of the PRISS will also depend directly on the improvement of factors that are external to the
health sector but have a major impact on health conditions, such as education, access to water supply, satisfactory environmental
hygiene, and gradual progress towards poverty alleviation.
Between 1989 and 1998, GDP did not grow very significantly.



8
continuity in project management, due to the frequent changes of task managers,
particularly during the first few years of implementation. Certain actions designed to
improve project management performance were not taken in time. The mid-term review
mission could have recommended the development of key indicators to improve
monitoring and ensure more objective evaluation of the project upon its completion.
6.   Borrower Performance
Administrative and financial management
Project coordination was the responsibility of a coordination committee which
included all relevant departments of the Ministry of Health. The Project Monitoring Unit
(PMU) was initially under the aegis of the Division of Planning and Health Infrastructure.
In 1995, it was moved to the central Directorate of Planning and Financial Resources.
The quality of administrative and financial management gradually improved during
project implementation. However, as mentioned above, despite progress made, the
coordination unit lacked sufficient material and human resources to enable it to post an
optimum performance. With its location within one of the directorates of the Ministry,
this unit did not have sufficient authority to fulfill its mandate. With respect to financial
management, the quality and management of the data produced were such that it was not
possible to have an overall financial statement at project completion. Accounts needed
for management purposes were held in a number of different files and therefore not
presented in a conducing manner to efficient and dynamic monitoring of the project or
the reconstruction of its financial accounts.
The Ministry was well aware of these weaknesses in project management, and
consequently was able to make the necessary arrangements to improve management of
the BAJ and PFGSS projects, based on lessons learned from the PRISS.
Civil works management
On the civil works, project implementation suffered from the insufficient
coordination of a wide range of factors related to finances, human resources, and
implementation deadlines and conditions, the result of a weak interactive relationship
among the different levels concerned. The decision to delegate completion of the works
to the provincial level, with the necessary budgetary allocations, came too late for the
accumulated delays to be fully made up. Lastly, the fact that the loan amount originally
allocated under the various categories were used to finance works whose scope
considerably exceeded that of the original program means that certain reservations
concerning the quality of the works should be expressed with the possibility that
maintenance may become necessary over the medium-term.
7.   Assessment of Project Outcome
It is difficult to make an accurate and objective assessment of the outcome of the
PRISS project because of two main reasons:
(i)    no monitoring and evaluation indicator was identified either at the time of
appraisal or during implementation, and this failure could not easily be remedied
(although the system's existing information system is in the process of being
upgraded); based on project files, it was agreed at negotiations that the



9
Government would prepare a list of monitoring and evaluation indicators. There
was no concrete follow-up to this action; however, as stated earlier, significant
progress is being made to establish a solid health information system nationwide;
(ii)   the outcomes observed were generally the product of many factors and based on
several development projects, and the specific contribution of the PRISS to those
results cannot be determined. This is well illustrated by the Borrower's report,
which focuses more on progress made in the sector since 1990 than on the
specific outcomes of this particular project (see Part II, page 16, last para. of
point 5.7).
Overall (and on the basis of information available to date), the outcome of the
PRISS cannot be judged as satisfactory, since the objectives aimed at reinforcing basic
health services and strengthening emergency and referral services were not fully
achieved. This overall conclusion is not shared by the Government which states in its
report that the project outcome was satisfactory.
However, three factors give the project a rather important place in the
development of the sector in general:
1.    Several activities were not carried out or completed until close to the end of the
project's second extension, i.e. during the last few months. This was typical of
major initiatives in the areas of health financing, management autonomy for a
larger number of hospitals, etc., and also applied to the construction works at
various sites. These activities represent steps in the right direction, and there is
no reason to doubt their long-term impact on the sector's development, even
though it is premature and difficult to assess that impact at the present time.
2.     Several development projects were approved in the sector over the past few
years, and some of these (for example, the PFGSS and the EU's projects) are just
now in the initial phases of implementation. These projects generally strengthen
the objectives of the PRISS and sometimes even try to remedy its deficiencies.
Even though the PRISS does not seem to have produced any striking results, it
has certainly played an important role as a catalyst in the sector's overall
development.
3.    The PRISS has also made an enormous contribution to the maturation process
essential to the development of certain options and to the launching of reforms in
the sector, such as administrative decentralization and the introduction of new
methods of financing health care.
8.    Future Operations
Several development projects that directly strengthen the objectives of the PRISS
have already been approved over the past few years and are still in progress. These
projects include two Bank's projects: the BAJ (US$68 million, which addresses MCH
issues and strengthens primary health care services and priority public health programs)
and the Health Financing and Management Project (US$66 million) which addresses



10
health financing hospital reforms and decentralization issues as well as projects financed
by ADB, USAID, and the EU9.
9.    Key Lessons Learned
The key lessons learned from the PRISS concern the importance:
*  of a gradual approach to the reform process and to projects with realistic and focused
objectives that concentrate on a relatively limited number of priority areas or
activities. This was taken into account in the design of both the Basic Health/BAJ
and the Health Financing and Management Project s (HFMP).
*  of finding a good balance between activities geared to improving the sector's
physical infrastructure and reducing problems of accessibility to services, and
activities designed to improve operation of the services and such aspects as quality of
care. The BAJ project includes activities aimed at improving the availability of drugs
and of personnel in the selected provinces. The HFMP includes significant activities
aimed at improving quality and management of health services in project hospitals.
*  of providing adequate support to priority public health programs. Such support was a
major raison for their good performance during the period of project implementation.
This support was strengthened under the Basic Health Project. In addition, the
implementation of financing mechanisms under the HFMP will, in the long run,
allow the Government to allocate more public resources to these programs.
*  of integrating investment projects into a well structured development strategy that
clearly targets the most vulnerable population groups and the disadvantaged regions
and gives priority to the most essential health services.  In the interest of the
preparation of the Health Financing and Management Project, a sound sector strategy
was elaborated.
*  of decentralizing certain responsibilities to the regional and provincial levels. The
implementation of civil works was decentralized to these levels, under the BAJ and
the HFMP.
*  of involving the various stakeholders, at both the central and the provincial level, in
project implementation. Under the BAJ, a systematic effort is made to involve
provincial governors and medical officers in the project; likewise the new HFMP
stresses mechanisms for ensuring consensus and coordination among key
stakeholders on health financing strategies.
*  of establishing in advance a master plan for each construction site and a precise
timetable for implementation of civil works.  This is a pre-requisite to the
rehabilitation of hospitals under the HEMP.
*  of having relevant monitoring and evaluation indicators at the start of the project.
Detailed indicators for both the BAJ and the HEMP were agreed upon at
negotiations.
*  of ensuring more continuity in Bank's supervision. This factor has been taken into
account since the end of the PRISS.
9      ADB/FAD is currently financing a US$63,880.953 project on strengthening basic health care; USAID is currently
implementing a US$52 million project on FP and child survival; The EU is financing two projects in the areas of maternal and child
health, AIDS, family planning services, neonatal services (approx. ECU 4 million) and a new project on hospital reform,
decentralization and organization of services (ECU 20 million)



11
Part Il
Summary of The Implementation Completion Report of the HSIP by the
Government
Introduction
This summary evaluation has been prepared by the Ministry of Health as a contribution to
the Implementation Completion Report on the HSIP/PRISS project, which will be written by the
World Bank.
It is a summary of the more detailed accompanying report, which was prepared by an
interdisciplinary team appointed by the Secretary General. This report includes a maximum of
information obtained from all the sectors that participated in execution of the project.
1. Background
At the identification stage of the project, the Ministry of Health had a number of strategic
concerns:
How to provide a balanced, efficient, and integrated health care system founded on two key
components: hospital service and basic health care services.
How to ensure equity between urban and rural areas, and among different regions.
How to obtain more satisfactory results from the Safe Motherhood Program.
How to control infectious diseases, the principal causes of infant and juvenile mortality.
What type of health financing mechanisms to choose, how to implement them, and how to ensure
their sustainability.
These concerns stemmed from a national context characterized by:
A very difficult economic situation, which had made it necessary for Morocco to adopt a
structural adjustment program founded on economic austerity measures that were having a direct
impact on the low-income population, despite a continuing modest growth rate.
High illiteracy rates, especially in rural areas; approximately 13.1% of the population was
classified as poor, with 75% of this group living in rural districts.
A health system primarily oriented towards curative care, whereas epidemiological control
required a preventive approach, which had actually been decided on in the late 1970s.
A-public health sector viewed as inefficient in both management and quality-of-service terms,
but expected to meet the health needs of more than 80% of the population, largely classified as
indigent; the Ministry of Health budget, most of it allocated for payroll, represented barely 4% of
the entire national budget.



12
2. Project Identification
The HSIP/PRISS project (3171-MOR), approved by Decree No. 2.90.513 of Safar 6,
1411 (August 28, 1990), was the Bank's second health-sector lending operation in Morocco.
Total project cost was estimated at US$171.0 million. The amount of the loan was US$104.0
million. The project became effective January 1, 1990 and, after two extensions, was closed on
December 31, 1998.
3. Project Objectives
The objectives, as defined in the Bank's Appraisal Report of January 1990, were to help
the Government of Morocco: (i) in developing and strengthening basic health care services; (ii) in
improving the administrative structure of the sector; and (iii) in developing sector policies aimed
at increasing financial and economic efficiency.
Explanation of objectives
The 1988-1992 Development Plan emphasized not only basic health care services but
also completion of the building of hospital facilities works on which had already been initiated
during the previous Plans.
In other words, project objectives and Ministry of Health priorities coincided, in respect
of both basic health care services and hospital services. It was deemed necessary: to capitalize
on what had already been done; to consolidate achievements to date in the basic health care
programs; and to support a policy which, because it called for the rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure facilities and not for the construction of new buildings, would not generate
recurring costs.
4. Project Execution
From 1990 to 1994, the project was coordinated by the Division of Planning, Statistics,
and Information Technology, and from 1995 onward by the Directorate of Planning and Financial
Resources. The Project Monitoring Unit was attached to each of these successively. The Project
Coordinating Committee remained active throughout the project implementation period; its
organization, composition and responsibilities were established from the very beginning.
Execution of each project component was entrusted to the government department
responsible for the specific area of activity involved.
The fact that PRISS objectives were not rigid or inflexible meant that project activities
could be reoriented to bring them more into line with the Ministry of Health general policy
priorities. For instance, the physical rehabilitation program was modified in response to
demographic pressures and the needs of rural districts.
During the project execution period, the Ministry of Health was reorganized twice (in
January 1990 and January 1995). Continuity of general policy and of project objectives was
maintained. Nonetheless, the execution of certain activities, and the monitoring of this execution,
were affected by personnel changes in both the executing entities and the Project Monitoring
Unit.



13
5.    Project Results
5.1    Civil Works
A total of 153 basic health care clinics were selected for renovation and extension, a
rehabilitation program that has now been completed. The necessary equipment for them, costing
a total cost of DH 16.8 million, has also been installed.
The project provided for renovation and extension of the eight rural hospitals. Works at
four of them is completely finished, and is expected to be finished at the other four by March
2000 at the latest.
Of the 30 provincial hospitals in which investments were to be made - after revision of
the project - 10 are completely finished and 20 are nearing completion.
It should be noted that delays in execution of the project civil works program have been
of particular concern to the Ministry of Health. For this reason, a multidisciplinary
commission set up to support the project executing entities was asked to provide an
inventory of work sites, ascertain the underlying causes of the delays, propose practical
solutions, and ensure that all decisions reached were implemented, so that the works not
yet completed could be finished as soon as possible.
The commission's first reports led to identification of some of the underlying causes of
problems common to all the projects behind schedule.' These causes were:
Cost overruns due to increases in works quantities, execution of works not contracted for, and
works not covered by firm quotes.
Weaknesses for which the public sector,  works supervisors, and contractors all share
responsibility.
Legal disputes between the public sector and contractors.
In addition, 46 hospitals have benefited from renovation of their equipment and technical
facilities under the project. The total amount spent on equipment purchases for these hospitals
was DH 172.9 million.
Civil works and equipment supply operations at the National Radiation Protection Center,
and at the six branches of the Ministry of Health located in the provinces and prefectures, have all
been completed as provided for under the project.
In the case of INAS (National Institute of Public Health Administration), the building
program is moving toward completion. While major structural components are actually
completed, any delays affecting technical components (electrical wiring, elevator, etc.) are due to
the temporary suspension of works, approved by a Bank mission. In its aide-memoire, the
mission stated that it supported the Government's decision to suspend works at INAS instead of
suspending others such as the rehabilitation of hospitals, and went on to recommend that works at
to    Periodic reports of the comniission supporting project executing entities.



14
INAS (and related works ) not to resume until financing for the other building sites (SSBs and
hospitals) had been secured.""
Generally speaking, all these investments have proved of value, given the impact they have
hiad on the quality of health coverage delivered by the Ministry of Health and on its public image.
5.2    Health care coverage
This project expanded on the model developed during the Bank's first health-sector
lending operation in Morocco, which covered three provinces on a pilot basis (Loan Agreement
2572-MOR). At the national level, although it did not provide for new facilities to be built,
access to health care services in rural areas improved significantly. The proportion of the
population located more than 10 km from a health care facility decreased from 39% in 1990 to
31% in 1997. This is the result of the construction of 156 new basic health care delivery units
(community health centers) financed by the African Development Bank and from the general
budget of the Health Ministry. This allowed the Government, with World Bank agreement, to
reallocate part of the proceeds of the PRISS toward hospital emergency services.
5.3    Health care programs
The experience acquired by its personnel in the delivery of basic health care services
enlabled the Ministry of Health to develop a Moroccan model of health prograrn management. In
its South/South relationships, Morocco is now finding that information on this experience is very
niuch in demand.
In terms of performance, these programs as a whole improved to the point of that there
was a definite positive impact on both morbidity and mortality indicators.
Infant mortality at the national level decreased from 60/1000 at the beginning of the
1990s to less than 37/1000 in 1997. Maternal mortality declined from 332 to 228 per 100,000
live births during the same period. The nutritional status of children under age 5 has improved
significantly. The contraceptive prevalence rate at the national level has reached 59%.
The national immunization program has significantly reduced the incidence of several
diseases such as diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus and measles. There have been no registered
cases of polio in the country since 1990.
Considerable progress has also been made in preventing schistosomiasis, malaria,
tuberculosis, leprosy, infections ocular diseases, AIDS and other STDs, and in improving
environmental hygiene.
Progress from the control stage to eventual elimination is anticipated in the case of both
malaria and schistosomiasis. This will mean considerable savings in the future.
Morocco's national tuberculosis prevention campaign has been classified by WHO as
very effective because of its rates of detection (90%) and cure (90%).
To summarize, the project has brought success in developing health care programs which
have benefited different vulnerable sectors of the population (women through the Safe
11    Extract from June 1996 World Bank aide-memnoire (PRISS supervision mission).



15
Motherhood Program, indigent groups through free tuberculosis testing, rural inhabitants,
immunization of children under age 5, the mentally ill, the elderly, the handicapped, etc.).
5.4    Strengthening of infrastructure and means of diagnosis treatment
The project provided the means of endowing the health care system's first-level clinics
and referral hospitals with renovated buildings, plus necessary medical, surgical, etc. equipment.
Hospital emergency services aided by the project are now better equipped than before to
fulfill their mission. Psychiatric services and dental care are available in many provinces.
A national-level network of diagnostic and surveillance laboratories has been set up,
some specializing in epidemiological diagnosis and environmental sanitation, others in anti-
tuberculosis work, and yet others in the diagnosis, referral, and tracking of cases of bacterial
meningitis, etc.
In addition, health care system facilities now have access to the drugs needed to combat
infectious diseases, AIDS, other STDs, and tuberculosis, and to family planning materials
Over the last ten years, many manuals dealing with the management of health programs
and other health activities have been issued.  In addition, modem approaches to medical care
have been incorporated into diagnostic and treatment strategies, for instance:
*  the syndrome approach to the treatment of AIDS and other STDs;
*  the integrated approach to the care of sick children;
*  step-by-step diagnostic and treatment methods for dealing with acute respiratory infections
and diarrheal diseases;
*  the Directly Observed Therapy Short Course (DOTS) for tuberculosis;
* guidelines for dealing with obstetrical problems (distributed to all maternity hospitals).
5.5    Training
Again over the last ten years, the Ministry of Health has ensured the existence of a corps
of trained medical personnel, by:
*  creating the National Institute of Public Health Administration (INAS), which trains senior
managers to master's-degree level and contributes to the development of research on the
health system;
*  creating eight training institutes for health care personnel;
*  introducing a national continuing education strategy.  From  1990 to 1998, this strategy
resulted in: training for a total of 49,000 professionals in a range of health care disciplines,
including emergency medicine and maintenance; and supply of computer-based technical
training equipment to central and provincial health care facilities.
In addition to the health personnel trained in Morocco itself, 39 professionals were also
trained in management and public health at foreign universities.



16
5.6    Technical assistance
As a result of its proactive stance, the health sector has succeeded in mobilizing
approximately US$90.0 million in technical assistance and training funds from Health Ministry
donor partners (USAID, WHO, UNFPA, UNICEF, EU) and under bilateral cooperation
arrangements.
5.7   Sector reform
The project contributed to the financing of studies which resulted in the Ministry of
Health: (i) being reorganized twice (two organization charts); (ii) acquiring a foundation of
knowledge on health sector financing and hospital management; and (iii) launching an extensive
examination of the Moroccan model of health care system, a study that can be expected to have
an impact upon its sustainability.
The reforms introduced have affected two major areas: resource mobilization, and
resource use.
By December 31, 1998, 74 hospitals, regrouped in 43 hospital centers, were established
as "independently managed entities" or SEGMAs (Services geres de maniere autonome).
Various steps were also taken to improve the management performance of SEGMA's
(introduction of performance indicators and internal regulations; issue of a management
procedures manual and an information system operations manual; redesign of administrative and
financial arrangements; etc.)
Tnere was a definite improvement in billing and collection. Earnings by the hospitals
moved into SEGMA groupings, which were reinvested in the hospitals themselves, rose from DH
11.68 billion in 1990 (nine hospitals) to more than DH 86.17 billion in 1997-98. This represented
annual increases which varied from 6% to 21%.
Cost recovery rates also increased, from 23.4% in 1990 to 38% in 1998. Reforms have
been introduced to improve these rates even further - pricing reforms, an agreement with
CNOPS (Caisse nationale des organisations de prevoyance sociale, National Social Security
Organizations Fund), etc.).
Since the principle of mandatory health insurance is recognized, the Ministry of Health is
trying to establish an institutional mechanism for providing medical care for the low-income
sectors of the population. Not only would this expand medical coverage further and set the public
hospitals back on a sound financial footing, it would also have a positive impact on their financial
autonomy, on the quality of care they provide, and on the reallocation of resources to basic and
preventive health care.'2
The regulations that should govern the development of health care services need to be
updated, but with attention to preservation of the special original nature of the Moroccan system,
in which both a private and public sector coexist. The system is also characterized by the
pluralism among its providers of health care services, which, however, need to be coordinated
logically if the health status of the general population is to improve further. To this end, a
government bill is now under review which establishes a list of health services designed to
12    MS Terms of reference for the actuarial study on the RAMEF Project-unpublished document.



17
ensure the availability of a well-balanced system of care capable of responding effectively to the
health needs of the population. This list, applicable to all health providers regardless of their
legal status (public or private, non-profit or for-profit) and particular functions, covers not only
the usual services in the major disciplines but also high-technology services.
Paralleling these moves, several laws dealing with the practice of health care professions
have been developed, not only to regulate these professions themselves but also to create
conditions conducive to expansion of the private health sector. In general, these materials aim at
making private practice easier by simplifying the procedures for establishing them, to standardize
licensing requirements, and to encourage health care professionals to work in under-served areas.
A national health information system (SNIS, Systeme national d'information sanitaire),
designed to advance management, evaluation, and planning in the health services and disease
control fields, has been set up. At present, it is the only official source of health information and
is an essential component in the national economic and social information system (SNIES,
Systeme national d'information economique et sociale).
A computerization and information development master plan devised previously by the
Ministry as a guide to be followed in the area of technology choices is currently being updated to
reflect the importance of Internet and Intranet facilities as means of disseminating information.
As far as decentralization of the management of human resources and central and branch
service entities is concerned, provision was made for two studies under the technical assistance
component of the project. The first, already completed, called for a general organizational audit
of the Ministry of Health and a detailed description of its personnel management and budget
management procedures.
The second study, currently underway, has to do with introduction of a computerized
personnel management system, and ways to facilitate its eventual incorporation into the
Comprehensive Civil Service Personnel Management System (GIPE, Gestion integree du
personnel de l 'etat).
All these advances -in health programs, training arrangements, sector development, and
infrastructure - were achieved thanks to the combined efforts of the Ministry of Health and its
various partners, among them the World Bank.
5.8    Financial situation of the project
Total project cost is estimated at DH 1.45 billion, with 61% covered by the proceeds of
the loan. The cumulative total of the arnounts listed in annual appropriations bills from 1990 to
1998-1999 is DH 1.61 billion, of which 75% was listed between 1990 and 1995 (the project
execution period anticipated initially).
As execution of the project proceeded, some differences appeared between the allocations
to each component shown in the Appraisal Report and what was actually spent, differences that
reflected reallocations of loan proceeds among the components.
Of the more than two-thirds of loan proceeds allocated for basic health care, the major
share (56%) was channeled into programs that emphasized measures to combat communicable
diseases.



18
In spite of the efforts made in committing 99% of project funds, only 90% were finally
made available. Disbursements amounted to DH 810.23 million, or 87% of the initial amount of
the loan (US$5.0 million having been canceled in 1997). The pace of disbursements was very
slow, which leads to the conclusion that the disbursement schedule projected at the appraisal
stage was too ambitious and did not reflect Morocco's experience with execution of its Health
Services Development Project, which had the same problems of delayed availability and slow
disbursement.
6. Sustainability of Project Achievements
The PRISS will be sustainable insofar as the Ministry of Health is able - through its own
resources - to assure continuity of the activities begun as part of the project. There are two kinds
of sustainability: technical sustainability and financial sustainability.
6.1    Technical sustainability
All the approaches to basic health care developed during the last ten years are
incorporated in Morocco's current programs.
As a result of investment in human resources, personnel in both the public and private
sectors in Morocco have acquired considerable experience and expertise (the development of
national engineering skills, particularly in the construction and maintenance industries).
T-he national maintenance strategy that has been adopted will contribute to the long life
and correct maintenance of equipment, and not only in the health sector. However, it needs to be
backed up by education for users in the need for maintenance.
6.2    Financial sustainability
The budget of the Ministry of Health is inadequate. Two options may be considered:
An increase that correlates with budget growth, which would bring it to at least 7% of the
national budget.
Rapid establishment of a satisfactory and stable means of financing the health system. In
this regard, it is certain that the country has already taken important steps forward. All parties are
already in agreement and reforms are underway. Concrete results will no doubt soon emerge.
Financing through philanthropy is increasingly oriented towards investments, and is more
readily forthcoming if government investments have already been made or if the programs in
need of financing have already demonstrated efficiency and effectiveness. In this context, the
Ministry of Health plans to consolidate and strengthen the financing of priority programs,
especially those with a public-health component and which are expected to benefit from
continuing support from national budget.
Paralleling this, certain national programs have developed partnerships with NGOs and
with the private sector. The role local governments might play in mobilizing more resources for
health care is being reexamined.
Rollover projects can ensure the continuity of some programs that have proved their
efficiency and effectiveness. For example, tuberculosis drugs remained available throughout the



19
duration of the project: the tuberculosis program was achieving its objectives, thereby confirning
that the chosen strategy for combating the disease needed to be maintained and strengthened. In
this regard, it is worthwhile noting that the BAJ Project included provision, beginning in 1996,
for continuation of several components of the basic health care program.
Other sources of funds to cover health care costs include direct user co-financing, health
insurance, and welfare arrangements for low-income groups. Management autonomy allows
health care facilities to retain their own earnings. Collection is continually improving thanks to
further reforms and other measures (e.g. such as fixing rates for services).
Health care objectives will best be met if parallel efforts are strengthened in the areas of
education, health, housing, and basic infrastructure. According to surveys cited in the ENPS I,
ENPSII and Papchild reports, analysis of socioeconomic variables shows that educating women is
the best way of improving health care.
7. Lessons Learned
Many changes can occur between project identification and project execution. For this
reason, a project should be designed to have a certain flexibility, enough to allow the Borrower
room to maneuver in case new priorities emerge during the execution phase.
Execution of a project should be undertaken within the strategic perspective of the
government department responsible. It should be an opportunity to launch activities within a
coherent framework. The project should be regarded less as a vehicle for simply rehabilitating
infrastructure than as an opportunity for improving the functioning of an entire system.
Although the mission and role of each of the individual Ministry of Health departments
during project execution were well defined, there was not an equally clear understanding
regarding their degrees of involvement.
In order for a Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) to be as efficient as possible, and for its
role not to be questioned or challenged, it must have at its disposal not only the physical tools to
carry out its work but also (and especially) multidisciplinary personnel trained in modern
management. In addition to monitoring the course of the project, the PMU should also be
responsible for advising and supervising the technical teams involved and for facilitating
communications among the various levels of execution or intervention. Lastly, it should serve as
the institutional memory of the project in its totality, and be able to ensure continuity in case of
personnel or organizational changes.
The Ministry of Health has capitalized on the technical results of the first Bank operation
in the health sector in Morocco by adopting the same health coverage model, and planning and
management tools. The latter have been incorporated into projects which are currently being
designed or executed.
The difficulties encountered in executing the Health Sector Investment Project were
inherent in (i): either its particular features (e.g. the complexity of its components, its national
scope, its pervasiveness, and its duration); (ii) or the organizational changes that affected key
structures and players during the course of its execution; and (iii) or, lastly, Bank consultants'
skills, background, and quality of relationships established.



20
Delays in carrying out some project components, especially civil works and installations,
were due either to internal management problems or constraints inherent to the complexity of the
project environment. These factors need to be identified beforehand and taken into account in the
execution of both current and future projects.
Although specific procedures - often viewed as "cumbersome" (Technical Specification
Documents (CPSs), non-objection, eligibility, etc.) - have to be followed in managing Bank-
financed projects, they are known in advance and are foreseeable. Instead of delaying execution,
they should be scheduled into project planning.
The option of whether or not to delegate/decentralize depends mainly on the types of
operation to be carried out. In some instances (e.g. civil works), local management may afford
worthwhile advantages.
For some PRISS operations (e.g. programs), delegation of authority from the central
Ministry level had two advantages: it facilitated budget execution and it trained a critical mass of
personnel in project management. Certain departments were provided with tools that allow real-
time production of essential information on demand, an investment fully in line with the
objectives of the project.
The interdependent nature of project activities means that considerable coordination is
necessary. Communication among the different levels of project execution is essential, and should
be maintained throughout the life of the project so that loss of information and documents can be
prevented.
Several lessons were learned regarding the execution of civil works: a master plan and a
contingency plan are needed for each hospital; the engineering design phase, the most important
part of a works project, needs to be emphasized more; the use of multiple contractors to execute
an investment operation split into separate contract lots should be avoided (when the budget
permits, it is preferable to keep the operation as a single contract lot); as many operations as
possible should be decentralized, but with monitoring and oversight from the central government
level.



21
Part Im
Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



22
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Obiectives         Substantial       Partial         Neglialble       Not applcable
Macro Policies                       5                5                5
Sector Policies                                       5                  )               I]
Financial Objectives                 5                5                                  I]
Institutional Development            5                                 5                  5
Physical Objectives                  5                                 5                  5
Poverty Reduction                    5                                 5                  5
Gender Issues                        5                5                5
Other Social Objectives              5                5                5
Environmental Objectives             5                5                5
Public Sector Management            I                                                    El
Private Sector Development                            5                                   5
Other (specify)                      5                5                5
B. Project Sustainabilitv               Likely                  Unlikelv                   Uncertain
(/)                       (/)                        (/)
5~~ 5
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactorv           Satisfactorv                Deficient
(V)                      (V)                          )
Identification                       5
Preparation Assistance               5                         1                          5
Appraisal                           I                          5
Supervision



23
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactory    Satisfactory    Deficient
(/)            (e)             (1)
Preparation                                  [                              EJ
Implementation                               a              oJ
Covenant Compliance                           Q               J
Operation (if applicable)                    C               a               a
Highl ybl
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactod     Satisfactory  Unsatisfactora    unsatisfactory
0/              0/               (I4               C/



24
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose                           Year of        Status
l                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~approval
PRreceding operations
ProjeclhDvlpet          the Ministry of Public Health (M4OPH) to shift           Coe
from an urban-based hospital-oriented health
system to a more cost-effective system of
primary care. The project will include: (a) the
strengthening of primary care and basic health
services, including family planning, in three
provinces; (b) the improvement of MOPH
management; (c) the strengthening of training
and Information, Education, Communication
(IEC) programs; and (d) the improvement of
the supply of basic drugs.
2. Social Priorities    Specific objectives of the Basic Health   1996           Ongoing
Program - Basic Health    Project under the Social Priorities
ProgramlBarnamaj al Aoulaouiyat al
ljtimaiya program (SPP/BAJ) are: 1) to
provide a better access to essential preventive
and curative care from 47 to 60 percent of the
targeted population, including equitable
access to essential drugs; 2) to reduce
maternal and neonatal mortality in the
targeted areas by increasing the coverage of
prenatal visits from 28 to 50 percent and
assisted deliveries in a medical setting from
18.5 to 30 percent, and by making available
modem family planning methods; and 3) to
maintain the performance of priority public
health programs at the national level. The
project will consist of the following three
components: 1) increase in access to essential
curative and preventive health care in the
thirteen provinces targeted under the project
(as a result of a recent split, the number of
provinces targeted by the BAJ is 14); 2)
strengthening of the safe motherhood program
in all its aspects within the thirteen provinces;
and 3) continuing support for priority health
programs nationwide.



25
Following operations
1. Health Financing and    The Health Financing and Management  1999           Project launch
Management              Project seeks to: 1) improve the efficiency            took place 2/99.
and the quality of care in project hospitals; 2)
mobilize additional resources; and 3)
strengthen Ministry of Health's (MOH's)
policy formulation and sector management
capacity. There are three project components.
The first component, strengthening hospital
management and improving service quality,
will strengthen hospital strategic planning
capacity and introducing organizational and
management tools, procedures, and
information systems needed for decision-
making and resource allocation processes. It
will also establish quality control
mechanisms, implement staffing norms, and
provide training. The second component,
improving health sector financing, will
develop and introduce a health insurance
scheme with mandatory enrollment for public
and formal private sector employees, and
develop and test financing mechanisms which
ensure access to health care for the poor. The
third component, strengthening policy and
decision-making capacities, will assist MOH
to adjust and perform its functions in the
context of the Regionalization Law, provide
MOH administration with the management
and data tools required for policy formulation,
and help MOH to implement its sector
strategy.



26
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned        Date ActuaV
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                       06/15/88
Preparation                                                      10/15/88
Appraisal                                                       06/21/89
Negotiations                                                     12/11/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)  NA                   NA
Board Presentation                                               02/20/90
Signing                                                         06/15/90
Effectiveness                                                    09/11/90
First Tranche Release (if applicable)         NA                   NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                   05/16/94
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if        NA                   NA
applicable)
Project Completion                          06/30/95             12/31/98
Loan Closing                                12/31/95             12/31/98



27
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Appraisal Esimate             17.0  42.0  72.0  94.0  103.0 104.0
Actual                        3.0   6.8  16.2  22.1   47.2  70.1 87.3  90.7 90.7
Actual as % of Esfimae        18%   16%  23%  24%   45%   67%   --   --  --
Date of Final Disbursement                                                   04/07/99
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not applicable
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined
Study          at Appraisal/Redefined         Status          Impact of Study
1. Diagnostic on                              Completed.           Reorganization of
organizational                                                      MOH at the Central
structure of the MOH                                                Level.
Directorates.
2. Management                                  Ongoing as of
Information System.                            3/31/99



28
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Local       Foreign      Total        Local       Foreign       Total
Item                        Costs        Costs                    Costs         Costs
A. Basic Health Services        36.7         50.2        86.9         42.5         60.8        103.3
-Service Delivery System        17.6         19.1        36.7         12.6          13.7        26.3
-MCH, FP & Nutrition            4.4          6.9         11.3          6.4          10.0        16.4
- Control of Communicable       10.1         17.2        27.3         14.3         23.9         38.2
Diseases
- Control ofNon-Communicable     0.9         1.5          2.3          1.3          2.1         3.4
Diseases
-School and University Health   0.8          1.5          2.4          0.5          0.9         1.4
-Environmental Control           1.4         1.7          3.0          2.4          2.7         5.1
-Support Program                 1.6         2.4          3.9          5.0          7.5         12.5
B. Referral Services            21.1         23.3        44.5         25.5         28.0        53.5
C. Administrative Reforms       1.9          1.7          3.6          1.5          1.5         3.0
D. Sectoral Reforms             0.5          1.3          1.8          0.5          1.3         1.8
Physical Contingencies          5.1          6. 7        11.8
Price Contingencies              9.7         12.8        22.6
TOTAL                          75.2         96.1        171.3        70.0         91.6        161.6
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)            Actual/Ltest Estinate(US$M)
Local     Foreign      Total           Local      Foreign      Total
Source                     Cost      Costs                       Costs       Costs
IBRD/IDA                        8.0        96.0           104.0         8.0        91.2           99.2
Domestic Contribution          67.3         0.0            67.3        62.4         0.0           62.4
TOTAL                         75.3        96.0           171.3        71.8        91.2          161.6



29
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreemnent   Section  Covenant Present   Original        Revised          Description of              Conrnents
type     status   fulfillment  fulfillment         covenant
date         date
4.01                    1         CP                                 Borrower to have project  Audit for '98 received.
accounts audited and      Although MOH had
report sent to the Bank.    agreed to a technical and
financial audit to be
carried out prior to project
closing, this full audit did
not take place. As a
result, the mission had
difficulty in obtaining
detailed information on
project expenditures.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                   S. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implmentation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                      allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with
CD    complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC =  not complied with



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                           Planned         Revised         Actual
Project Cycle
WeekE   US$   Weeks   US$   Weeks    US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                               77.0  191.9
Appraisal-Board                           = X              ___         31.1   81.2
Negotiations through Board Approval    _          ___                   6.7   20.8
Supervision                                                          168.1  508.6
Completion                            5.5    26.1     5.5   26.1       6.8   32.8
TOTAL                                   I        I       I ==       289.7 1 835.3
Note: Staff-weeks and US$ amounts also reflect sources of funds from Trust Funds.



31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/    # of          Days in      Specialized       Implernen-     Develop-      Types of
Project Cycle   Year         Persons    Field        Staff Skills        tation        ment         Problems
______        Represented         Status      Objectives
Through          4/89      5            13         Mission Leader,         _             -        Weak accounting system;
Appraisal                                          Public Health                                  Implementing unit needs to
Spec.; Architect;                              computerize. High cost of
Financial Analyst;                             import tariffs on medical
Emergency Care                                 supplies. High cost of project
Spec.                                          requires search for additional
funding. Government to
approve a comprehensive
investment budget scenario for
MOHP over 4-5 years.
Appraisal        6/89      7            12         Mission Leader,   _           _                 Civil works scaled down to
through Board                                      Public Health                                   reduce project cost and limit
Approval                                           Spec.; Architect;                              project imnplementation period
Economists                                            to four years.
Supervision      11/90     3            19         Mission Leader,    HS                HS        Additional staff needed for the
Emergency Care                                  Implementing Unit, project
Spec.; Financial                               implementation arrangements
Analyst                                         affected by reorganization of
MOH.
6/91      3            11         Mission Leader;        HS            HS        High inflation of project costs
Architect;                                      since Appraisal; reservation
Financial Analyst                                 on civil works for INAS
included by Government
(which was not envisaged
during Appraisal).
11/91     4           22         Mission Leader;          S             S        Delays in preparation of TORs
Architect; Sr.                                  for "Renovation of Hospital
Health Spec.;                                     Emergency and Referral
Financial Analyst                              Services"and "Administrative
Reform"; project
implementation plan not
updated; conumunication
problems with the six MOH
directorates given their
physical dislocation from each
other, 1991 reorganization has
hampered the completion of
several activities, and
gaps/overlaps are clear.
5/92      3            16        Mission Leader,          U             S        Local communities unfamiliar
Implementation                                 with process to renovate local
Spec.; Financial                                health facilities and purchase
Analyst                                           goods, which is causing
serious delays; duplication in
procuring of drugs resulting
from decentralization of
procurement to four
Directorates; little progress in
EMS.



32
11/92      4           21         Sr Public Heahth        S            U         Poor procurement planning by
Spec.; Sr.                                     MOH; Lack of personnel to
Implementation                                   work full time on EMS;
Spec.; Public                                  Coordination problems within
Health Spec.                                  MOE; local collectivities slow
to implement renovation and
re-equipping programs as
transferred to them by decree
in 1990.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
11193      3           31         Sr Public Health        S            HS        Govermeent has not been able
Spec.; Sr.                                     to gather pertinent data for
Implementation                                 progress report (project costs,
Spec.; Lawyer.                                  list of awarded contracts,
project financing ...); fndings
of the audit report raise serious
concerns (procurement and
distribution of drugs).
4/94       5            15        Sr Public Health        S            HS         Complex of administrative
Spec.; Sr.                                      procedures affects projects
Implementation                                delegated to the provinces (i.e.
Spec.; Accountant,                                   disbursement).
2 Drug Specialists
11/94      1           6          Sr. Public Health       S             S       Administrative reforms not yet
Spec.; Sr. Impl.                                     implemented.
Spec.
6195        2           Is        Sr. Public Health       S             S            Overdue audit repott
Spec.; Sr.; Sr.
Implementation
Spec.;
11/96      1           10         Sr. Public Health       U             S        Insufficient counterpart funds;
Spec.                                           audit report is "qualified".
3/97       4            13        Sr. Public Health       S             S         Poor performance of project
Spec.; Operations                              coordination unit However,
Analyst;                                      following conclusions of audit
Accountant;                                     report, a detailed fuiancial
Architect                                       analysis took place and the
Government committed itself
to a set of actions, some of
which were initiated during
the mission.
11/97      2           10         Sr. Public Health       S             S          Delays in payment (10-12
Spec.; Sr.                                             months).
Implementation
Spec.
7/98       3           5          Sr. Public Health       U             S        MOH not being reimbursed by
Spec.; Sr.                                      MOF for eligible expenses
Implementation                                    from Special Account
Spec.; Financial                                (managed by MOF) Slow
Management Spec.                                implementation of actions
agreed upon to improve
project unit performance.



33
Completion             2/99      6           10            Sr. Public Health      U      U               The Government requested
Spec.; Sr.                                  two extensions ofthe closing
Implenentation                               date in order to comnplete civil
Spec.; Financial                              works aimed at improving
Management                                   emergency services. Despite
Spec.; Accountant;                               these extensions, the
Architect; Public                            objectives were not achieved.
Health Spec.                                 During the July 1998 mission,
the Government had agreed to
carry out a technical audit and
financial audit in order to have
a clear and reliable picture of
the project This was not
done.



