Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4o   3< 71 -7  400C
Report No. 8108-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 8, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa RegioL,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
'1                                       STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of September 1989)
Currency Unit                        Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$1.00                              DH 8.5
DH 1.00                              US$0.1176
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS        Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV infection)
CHU         Centre Hospitalier Universitaire
University Hospital Center
CNOPS       Caisse Nationale des Organisations de Prevoyance Sociale (publics
employees social security funds)
CNSS        Caisse Nationale de S6curit6 Sociale (private sector social
security Zunds)
EMS         Emergency Medical Services
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOM         Government of Morocco
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus (AIDS)
IMF         International Monetary Fund
MCH-FP      Maternal-Child Health-Family Plsn.ling
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOH         Ministry of Public Health
NGO         Non-governmental Organizations
PIC         Programme d'Investissement Cible (Target Investment Program)
PMU         Project Monitoring Unit
P/M         Person/Month consultancies
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SIAAP       Service de l'Infrastructure d'Actions Ambulatoires Provinciales
(provincial level basic health services)
STD         Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TIP         Target Investment Program
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
WHO         World Health Organization



FOR OMCUAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Loan Summary                                                       i
Basic Data                                                        iv
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                 1
II.   SECTOR BACKGROUND                                            2
The Sector                                                   2
Sector Issues                                                7
Bank Experience with Lending in the Sector                   9
Rationale for Bank Involvement                              10
Other Donors                                                10
III.  THE PROJECT                                                 11
Project Objectives                                          11
Project Description                                         11
IV,  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION                  15
Project Costs                                               15
Proj ect Financing                                          17
Project Implementation                                      18
Procurement                                                 19
Disbursement                                                21
Status of Preparation                                       21
Special Account                                             21
Accounts and Audits                                         22
V.    BENEFITS AND RISKS                                          23
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Morocco in June 1989. The mission comprised Mme. J. Weissman (PHN
Projects Officer, mission leader), Drs. S. Habayeb and D. Jolly (Public Health
Specialists), V. Rodwin (Health Economist), and Messrs. H. Sederlof (Senior
Projects Officer), H. Go (Architect), and I. Talai (Financial Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



VII. ANNE S
1. Administrative and Policy Reform Matrix
2. MOH Organization Charts
a. 1976-1989
b. 1989
3.  Organization of Health Services Delivery System at the Provincial
level
4. Organization of Primary (Ambulatory) Health Services
5. Health Expenditures
a. Investment Expenditures
b.  Recurrent Expenditures
6. Training and Technical Assistance Programs
a. Training
b. Technical Assistance
7. Project Cost Tables
8. Implementation Schedule
9.  Disbursement Schedule
10. Selected Documents Available in Project Files
11.  Basic Data - Comparative Indicators (1987)
E



KINGDOM Or MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan SummaK
Borrower:         Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:           US$104.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Twenty years, including five years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Description:      The proposed loan would support the first phase of a long
term effort to reestablish sustainable public health
programs natiorvide. It advances the priorities identified
as part of the 1989-92 Target Investment Program endorsed by
the Structural Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3001-MOR).   Bank
support in 1990-93 and beyond is needed to maintain the
shift in focus of the investment program from hospitals to a
more balanced program of investments in primary health care
and essential diagnostic and referral services. The
proposed project would build on pilot-scale efforts financed
by the Health Development Project (Ln. 2572-MOR) which has
helped establish sound standards and flexible institutional
arrangements for the delivery of primary health care. It is
designed to rehabilitate essential basic health services
using existing infrastructure. It would provide the
resources required to reinforce priority health programs in
primary care and at the first level of referral; strengthen
the administration and management of health services and the
maintenance of buildings and biomedical equipment. It would
also support ongoing Ministry of Health (MOH) efforts to
test and implement various improvements in service quality
and efficiency; increase cost recovery for curative care;
facilitate the mobilization of additional resources in
support of the sector; and streamline arrangements for
services financed by public and private sector insurance
funds.
Benefits:         In the short and medium term, the proposed project would
raise the credibility of the public sector health services
by reinforcing the essential primary, diagnostic and
emergency health services of the MOH in a time of fiscal
stringency. The project would contribute to MOH goals to
reduce infant and maternal morbidity and mortality, improve
the nutrition status of vulnerable population groups,
control preventable diseases, and reinforce MOH ability to
respond to the growing number of accidents which require
emergency medical care. The project's support of
administ,ative reforms is expected to contribute to improved



- ii -
planning, personnel and financial management, and increased
productivity in the use of sector resources. In the medium
to long term, improvements in MOH maintenance and repair
capabilities are expected to safeguard investments in
infrastructure and equipment, and sector reforms are
expected to provide Morocco with a financially and
economically sustainable health system which has broader
nationwide coverage. The policy and sector reform programs
are expected to furnish the means to increase individual,
public and private sector expenditures on health care
without depending solely on central government revenues for
the entire increase.
Risks:            The principal risks relate to GOM ability to provide
adequate financial resources for the health sector on a
sustained basis pending the successful outcome of long term
efforts to mobilize additional resources, and the
implementation capacity of the MOH. The project represents
a special effort to redirect additiona.l resou.-es to the
sector and is therefore expected to receive the necessary
allocations even in difficult budgetary conditions.
Continuous monitoring of expenditures will be conducted in
the context of the Bank's annual review of public
investments. The experience gained in the first Bank-
financed project is expected to reduce initial delays in
project start-up. Equipment lists have been prepared,
reviewed and approved by the Bank, as have standard bid
documents related to the procurement of works and goods.
Ongoing efforts to strengthen the management capabilities of
the MOH and the decentralization of administrative functions
to the provincial and facility level are expected to improve
r.ector performance and thus contribute to an increased
project implementation capacity.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs"/
Local   Foreign   Total
----(US$ Million)------
A. Basic Health Services
Service Delivery System                             17.6       19.1      36.7
MCH                                                   4.4        6.9     11.3
Control Of Communicable Diseases                     10.1      17.2      27.3
Control of Non-Communicable Diseases                  0.9       1.5       2.4
School and University Health                         0.8        1.5       2.3
Env'ronmental Control                                 1.4       1.6       3.0
Support Programs                                      1.6       2.4       4.70
Sub-Total Basic Health Services                          36.8       50.2     87.0
B. Referral Services                                       21.2       23.3     44.5
C. Administrative Services                                  1.9        1.7       3.6
D. Sectoral Reforms                                         0.5        1.3       1.8
Total Baseline Costs                                     60.4       76.5    136.9
Physical Contingencies                               5.1        6.7      11.8
Price Contingencies                                   9.8      12.8      22.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      75.3       96.0    171.3
Financing Plan:
Government:                                          67.3                67.3
IBRD:                                                8.0       96.0    104.0
TOTAL:                                              75.3       96.0    171.3
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                91       92       93        94        95        96
---------------------(US$ Million)---------------
Annual                     17.0    25.0      30.0      22.0      9.0       1.0
Cumulative                     17.0    42.0      72.0      94.0    103.0    104.0
tonomic Rate of Return:                      N.A.
1      Inclusive of direct taxes and customs duties estimated at US$ 41.0
million.



- iv -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
General Data                                                 Year    Source
Population (in millions)                          24.5        1989        5
GNP per Capita (current US$)                     620          1987        2
Adult Literacy Rate  male/female (X)             45/22        1985        7
Primary School Enrollment
Relevant Age Group male/female (X)         61/48        1987        8
Dependency Ratio (economically dependant
population/productive population)           81.4       1985         1
Population Below Poverty Level
urban/rurai (X)                            28/45        1985        5
Vital Indicators
Life Expectancy (in years)  male/female          59/63        1989        5
Crude Birth Rate  per 1000 population            33           1986        3
Crude Death Rate       n      n                  10           1986        3
Infant Mortality Rate
per 1000 live births                       73          1989         5
Maternal M.ortality Rate
per 100,000 live births                    400          1989        5
Poculation Growth and Projectlons
Annual Rate of Population Growth (X)             2.5          1980-86     3
2.3         1990-95     1
2.1         1995-2000   1
Rate of Growth of Labor Furce                    3.3          1980-85     3
Population Age 15-64 (X)                   3.1         1985-2000   3
Population Projections (millions)                30.5         2000        1
36.3        2010        1
Hypothetical Size of Stationary
Population (millions)                      59          1988         3
Total Fertility Rate
(average number of children per woman)    4.5          1986         3
Health. Nutrition and Family Planning
Health
Population with Access to Health
Services Urban/Rural  (X)                  90/61       1989         5
Rural Population with Access to
Potable Water (X)                          7           1988         2
Low Birth Weight Infants (X under
2.5 kg.)                                   7           1982-87      5
Women of Reproductive age (15-49 years)
Immunized TT (X)                           45          1989         5



-V
Year    Source
Children under 1 year Immunized (X)
BCG                                  99           1989        5
DPT 3                                92
Polio 3                              92
Measles                              92
Expenditures on Health as X of CNP                3.3         1987         5
MOH buaget as X of total GOM budget               4.9         1989         5
Health Expenditures Per Capita
Public Sector                     US$  8          1987        9
Private Sector                        17          1987        9
Physicians/1000 population                        1/5300      1987         5
Nursing Personnel/1000 population                 1/1160      1987         5
Hospital Bed/population                           1/83r       1987         5
Hospital Admissions/1000 population               16          1988         5
Hospital Occupancy Rate (X}                       65          1988         5
Nutrit.ion
Daily Calorie Supply per capita                   2729        1985         3
Daily per capita Calorie Supply as X
of Requirement                             108          1985         7
Children 12-23 months under weight for
age (wasting) Z                            6            1980-87      7
Children 24-59 months under hteight for
age (stunting) X                           12           1980-87     7
Prevalence of Breast-feeding
infants 3 months of age (X)                95           1980-86     7
Infants 6 motths of age (Z)                61
Family Planning
Contraceptive Prevalence                                      1987         6
Married Women of Reproductive Age (X)       35.9
Modern Methods (X)                          28.9
Traditional Methods (XX                      7
Prevalence According to Educational Status                    1987         6
Women with Secondary Edvcation + (X)        52.8
Primary Education             46.6
None                          24.8
Source of PP Services, Modern Methods
Public Sector (X)                          79           1987         6
Private Practitioners                      11
Pharmacies                                   9
NGO                                          1
SOURCES:    1. EMENA Population Projections 1988-89; 2. Social Indicators of
Development, 1988; 3. World Development Report 1989; 4. Bank Estimates;
5. Ministry of Public Health; 6. Demographic and Health Survey, 1987; 7. The
State of the World's Children, UNICEF, 1989; 8. SAR, Rural Primary Education
Project, World Bank, 1989; 9. La D6pense de Sant& au Maroc, Ministry of Public
Health, 1989.
See Annex 11 for Comparative Indicators from other countries



KINGDOM OF MOR.OCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPART
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        Morocco has experienced a prolonged period of economic adjustment
during the 1980s which was necessitated by a failure to adjust rapidly to
adverse external factors which transpired in the latc 1970s. The phosphate-
led boom (1975-1977) generated an ambitious public investment program which
required increasing amounts of external financing after the price of
phosphates collapsed. An extended period of droughr followed, and this,
combined with rising interest rates on foreign borrowing, led to a balance of
payments crisis in 1983. A rescheduling of the mounting external debt that
year was accompanied by a comprehensive program of economic policy reform
which has been sustained and intensified in the last five years.
1.02        In the reform process, IMF standbys and Bank support of medium-
term adjustment programs in key sectors have been used to reduce the current
account and treasury deficits and lay the foundation for substantial changes
in the nature and scope of Government interventions in the economy. During
the past five years, Morocco has succeeded in maintaining a modest rate of
growth and low inflation rates while addressing internal and external
imbalances. A Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was approved in late 1988 (Ln.
3001 - MOR). The execution of the target public investment program (TIP) is
being monitored under the SAL, with particular attention to the completion of
investments in four areas - health, education, agriculture, and essential
infrastructure - which have suffered in recent years from below-average
budgetary allocations and payments against works completed. Investments in
these areas are being given priority and their execution rates significantly
enhanced in an etfort to alleviate the impact on low income groups of the
economic austerity programs of recent years.
1.03        Sectoral adjustment programs initiated during the past five years
in Agriculture, Education, Public Enterprises, and Trade, Finance and Industry
are designed to support Government efforts to raise the ei#iciency of
production, stimulate exports, increase the equity and efficiency of the
educatlon system, and promote fiscal reform. In addition, Government is
increasingly targeting investments which are productive or which will provide
essential infrastructure needed to support the growth of the private sector,
and expand the access of the population, and in particular the poor, to
education and health services.



11. SECTOR BACKGROUND
The Sector
PoRulation and Health Stacus
2.01        The health status of the Moroccan population is characterized by
life expectancy -hich is 15 years lowe'r than in the industrialized czuntries,
and infant morta'ity which is ten times higher. Nevertheless, conditions have
improved substantially during the past twenty years; life expectancy has
increased from 50 to 61 years and infant mortality has declined from 145/1000
live births to about 73/1000. The population growth rate has remained high,
at about 2.52 per annum, as a result of a 41X decline in che death rate and a
concurrent 271 reduction in the birth rate. The population can be expected to
double in about 29 years, to 50 million, unless the birth rate declines more
rapidly. because of the youthful age structure of the population, the labor
force is growing even faster than the general population, and at the current
rate of increase of 3.31 per annum, will double in only 23 years.
2.02        Women and children suffer the most serious consequences of high
fertility and inadequate health care. Infants under one year of age account
for 511 of all deaths, half of which occur during the first 28 days of life.
Many of these neonatal deaths could be prevented if prenatal care and attended
deliveries were more widely available. Only 251 of women who become pregnant
receive any prenatal .--are and trained medical personnel attend only 251 of all
deliveries. In some rural areas, less than 31 of deliveries are attended.
Maternal mortality may exceed 400/100,000 births, in contrast to 10 de_.hs per
100,000 births experienced in the developed countries.
2.03        Tuberculosis and other communicable diseases, respiratory
infections and diarrheal diseases are the most common causes of morbidity and
mortality for all age groups. There is also increasing evidence that in urban
areas, the incidence of chronic degenerative diseases such as cancer and heart
disease is rising. Accidents of all kinds and especially traffic accidents
are rapidly becoming a major cause of morbidity and mortality. The impact of
these health problems on natioral development is substantial and can be
measured in economic terms by the Joss of productivity which is the result of
a physically debilitated labor force and by the need for expensive medical
care for diseases whiclh could be prevented at a fraction of the cost.
Nutrition
2.04        Data on the nutritional status of the population is limited, but a
1986 Demographic and Health Survey indicated that about 171 of pre-school
children are either underweight for age, under height for age, or both.
Children in rural areas are twice as likely to suffer from nutritional
deficits as children in urban areas, and children in their second year of life
are particularly at risk because they are often abruptly weaned to a diet
which is inadequate in quantity and nutritional value. The 1984-85 National
Contumption Survey indicates that, barring some major improvement in the
distribution and utilization of the existing food resources, per capita food
consumption has changed little since the early 1970s. Although it is



- 3 -
difficult to quantify the relationship between food consumption patterns and
nutritional status because of the technical difficulties inherent in measuring
consumption, experience worldwide has demonstrated that malnutrition is
usually a contributing factor when the infant mortality rate exceeds 50/1000
live births. In Morocco, infant mortality is above 50/1000 in every province
and prefecture, and exceeds 100/1000 in several.
Health Sector Finances
2.05        Public and private sector expenditures on health care in Morocco
each averaged about 1X of GDP between 1978 and 1984. MOH recurrent
expenditures have equaled slightly over 4X of total government expenditures
durirg the same period, in contrast to 5 - 8X spent in other middle income
coun.ries. Between 1980 and 1987, the operating budget of the Ministry of
Health increased by about 1.32 in real dirhams, but the population grew at an
average annl. 1 rate of about 2.51, suggesting that the public sector is losing
ground in its efforts to increase coverage of the population in the absence of
any significant productivity increases. According to the 1984-85 Household
Consumption Survey, individual household expenditures for health care are low,
at only 51 of i.ncome.  About 501 of these expenditures are for medical
consultations and 351 are for the purchase of medicines. Consumption of
health care provided by the health sector is much higher in the major urban
areas, 244 Dirhams per capita, in eontrast to 55 Dirhams per capita in poor
rural areas. These differences in spending patterns are indicative of the
higher consumption rate of the more affluent in urban areas and the greater
availability of services in those areas.
2.06        The public sector dominates the delivery of health care in
Morocco; more than 80X of the population depend on services provided by the
civilian public sector, and more than 90X of the public sector health budget
is furnished by the central government budget. At Independence, the CO)M began
to develop a health services infrastructure pyramid based on population/
service ratio guidelinl3s formulated by the WHO for use in countries which did
not have sufficient epidemiological information to develop plans based on the
actual health care needs of the population. Given the limitations of this
type of health care planning, the Moroccan public health system was well-
conceived, with a hierarchy of facilities which begins with basic outpatient
services offered by mobile teams snd dispensaries and culminates in the highly
specialized treatment available in the two university hospitals. Reliable
data are not available on the use by approximately 201 of the population of
the military medical system or the private and quasi-private sector health
services. There are two social security systems - CNSS (Caisse Nationale de
S6czrite Sociale) for private sector employees and CNOPS (Caisse Nationale des
Organisations de Pr6voyance Sociale) for public sector employees. Individuals
may also purchase health insurance in the private sector, or pay out-of-pocket
for health care provided by private sector practitioners. There is some
overlap of public and private sector which is inherent in the operation of the
social security systems. CNSS operates its own hospitals, but there is no
provision for contributions for health care by CNSS members, therefore they
and non-members who use the CNSS hospitals must pay for services, either out-
of-pocket or through the use of health insurance purchased in the private
sector. The CNOPS beneficiaries contribute to a series of mutual funds from



- 4 -                                             A
which they are reimbursed for health care, however they may use the facilities
of the CNSS, the MOH, or the private sector.
2.07        The MOH operating and investment budgets together provide an
average of only US$8 per capita for health care. As a full series of basic
immunizations costs about US$5 per child, it is obvious that the MOH budget is
in no way adequate to meet the health care needs of the population, regardless
of the manner in which it is used. About 52X of the MOH budget is allocated
to the hospitals, about 26X to administration, and 22X to ambulatory care.
About 701 of the personnel budget is allocated to hospitals, and the remainder
to administration and ambulatory care. Because civil service employment
regulations offer limited flexibility with respect to cutbacks in the
personnel budget, a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditures means
that the amount available for non-personnel operating costs - medicines and
medical supplies such as suture material and bandages, x-ray film,
disinfectants, and chlorine for treatment of wells is less, and maintenance
jobs are postponed indefinitely. It is this decline in the non-personnel
operating budget, from 421 in 1977 to 30X in 1988, which has caused the highly
visible and much criticized decline in the quality and quantity of care
available in the public health services in recent years.
Health Policy and Strategy
2.08         Morocco's Economic Development Plans since 1973 have articulated
the intention of Government to extend basic health services to the entire
population but the plans lacked priorities and placed equal emphasis on the
development of preventive and curative services. Given the nature of the
problems described in Para. 2.01-2.04, this strategy was not entirely
appropriate. Hospital construction has been emphasized in the past, which
favored the coast and major urban areas. Although approximately 60X of the
rural population now live within 10 km. of a MOH facility, many rural areas
are still underserved and some population groups have virtually no access to
any of the services offered by thc MOH. The 1988-92 Plan is the first which
indicates clearly that priority will be given to primary care and underserved
areas. However, the KOH has been unable to change the direction of its
investment program because of the fiscal problems of recent years, which
limited investments to the completion of works, primarily hospitals, which
were begun during earlier plan periods. Some of the hospitals which are still
under construction were begun in 1974. This backlog from prior investment
programs is expected to clear within the next two-three years, which will
permit the MOH to execute an investment program which redresses the imbalances
of the past and is more responsive to the priority health care needs of the
population.
2.09        The strategy for the 1988-92 Development Plan is therefore one of
consolidation. The Bank has reviewed the entire investment program with the
Ministries of Plan, Finance, and Health, including the investments which would
be financed under the project, and concluded that the overall investment
program is fully appropriate. It indicates that the Ministry of Public Health
will: (i) complete projects begun under previous plans; (ii) maintain,
renovate and rehabilitate existing infrastructure; (iii) develop basic health
services in order to reduce infant mortality, increase the use of birth



-5.
spacing, and improve the nutritional status of mothers and children;
(iv) implement management procedures which will maximize and rationalize the
allocation of resources with effective participation of local communities; and
(v) define a financing policy for the sector with appropriate pricing and
increased participation of groups and individuals in the assumption of
responsibility for the cost of medical treatment and other medical benefits.
2.10        As the Moroccan public health system has matured, the expanded use
of surveys and improved data collection through the service delivery system
are gradually leading to more sophisticated program and investment planning.
The MOH is now taking its investment planning in a new direction, based more
closely on demographic and epidemiological indicators used to define the
priority health care needs of the different population groups and the
assumption that the limited resources available must be used more efficiently.
In 1981, the MOH began preparation of what was to become a Bank-financed
Health Development Project (Para. 2.20). As part of the preparation process,
a four-pronged strategy for primary care was developed, based on precise
population mapping. The strategy involves the use of four levels of
intervention: (1) ambulatory care in fixed facilities; (2) itinerant nurses
for home visits and community meetings; (3) mobile teams for distant
settlements; and (4) MOH-trained traditional birth attendants and community-
based voluntary health workers. The exact mix used in each province depends
on population density, topography, access, existing physical and human
resources, and community involvement and preferences.
2.11        The new primary health care strategy places emphasis on the
organization of services for geographically defined population groups; the
preventive aspects of health care including early screening and detection of
disease; and the participation of local community groups in planning
activities, determining meeting places for itinerant nurses and mobile teams,
and discussing the health needs of the community. This coverage strategy
reduces the requirement for fixed facilities, which would have to be increased
many times over in order to reach the majority of the population. A USAID-
supported Family Planning pilot project in 1976 provided the basis for the
primary health care outreach strategy, which continues to include family
planning services as a priority program. The results to date of the
application of the new strategy are promising. In the three provinces where
the strategy has been tested, the use of hospital emergency rooms for non-
emergency care has declined and the population covered by the primary care
programs has increased by carefully targeting services to those who need them.
All of the other provinces are in the process of preparing and progressively
implementing service delivery plans based on the model developed in the three
pilot provinces. The full application of the model on a nationwide basis will
require an infusion of additional resources, including some small-scale civil
works, considerable materials and equipment, and training.
Maintenance
2.12        The maintenance of health facilities and medical equipment has
often been deferred in Morocco because of the inadequate funds available for
sector operations and because of insufficient maintenance infrastructure,
human and material resources, and organizational skills. Human and material



-6-
resources are now available for the maintenance of buildings, but there is
still a lack of infrastructure for the maintenance of medical equipment. The
MOH has recently completed a diagnosis of equipment maintenance problems with
the assistance of UNDP, and has formulated the following strategy: (i)
establish a network of workshops in strategic locations across the -^untry
where technicians can resolve a majority of the most common medica] iquipment
problems; (ii) identify relevant training requirements, plan and exezute a
training program; (iii) establish national policies and procedures for medical
equipment procurement which will contribute to lower maintenance costs. This
strategy will be supported by the proposed project (Para. 3.07).
Management and Cost Recovery
2.13        The Ministry of Health has made an effort to improve other aspects
of the health system as well. Seven provincial hospitals plus the two
university hospitals (CHU, centre hospitalier un"versitaire) have been given
some managerial autonomy to administer their non-personnel operating budgets.
One of the immediate effects has been an average increase in fees collected of
about 50X per hospital during the first year of the program, 1988. In
addition, some fees have been increased, including the fee for specialist
consultation at the CHU, and others are being updated. Nevertheless, the
administrative systems of the MOH remain cumbersome and highly centralized,
and for the most part, have not been modified to reflect good modern
management practices. Limited progress has been made in the computerization
of personnel and financial records, but these systems are still incomplete and
will require considerable addit onal work if they are to be fully exploited as
management information systems. A substantial in-kind contribution was
documented as part of the health financing study supported by the Health
Development Project. Patients, particularly in hospitals, provide their own
bedding, meals, medicines and medical supplies when these are not available at
the facility. Consultant services financed by the Health Development Project
also contributed to the preparation of the reorganization plan for the MOH
which has been approved at all levels of government and will be implemented
during 1990 (Para. 2.22).   Other ongoing work financed by the Health
Development Project which is expected to contribute to MOH efforts to increase
efficiency and cost recovery includes a study of hospital administration and a
program to strengthen the drug supply system.
2.14        Efforts are being made to improve the managerial and
administrative aspects of MOH operations because of increasing Government
awareness of the limitations associated with the health sector's heavy
dependence on central government revenues. There is also a growing consensus
that additional ways must be found to increase revenues generated by user
charges, improve internal efficiency, enhance the use of public and private
sector insurance systems, mobilize community resources in support of local and
regional services, and encourage the private sector to take a more active role
in the provision of health care. The government is considering various
options, which might include the indexation of hospital fees to keep pace with
increasing costs, the regular adjustment of hospital per diem rates and fees
for outpatient emergency diagnostic and treatment services, the use of private
sector health services and insurance, modification of the relationship of the
MOH to the existing social and health insurance schemes, and forecaating of



-7-
net revenues compared to projected total public health expenditures. Options
under consideration are outlined in Annex 1.
2.15        The environment in which these changes are expected to take place
is complex. Health care costs are increasing steadily as a result of
technological advances in medicine, inflationary pressures, and rising public
awareness and expectations for more and better health care. Adjustments in
the MOH fee structure wiill be difficult to justify to patients unless they are
accompanied by significant improvements in the quality of care and the
physical environment in which care is offered. Full cost recovery at the
point of service without specific safeguards is not an option, because the
public sector will always have to take into consideration the need to provide
services free or at a nominal charge to the large low income and indigent
population groups. Although the percentage of the population which is below
the poverty level has declined from about 40% in 1971 to 30% in 1985, the
absolute number of poor has remained the same because of rapid population
growth and skewed income distribution. In addition, the public sector will
continue to be responsible for public health services which are in the public
interest, such as basic immunization, environmental health and communicable
disease control programs, and response to emergencies and natural disasters.
Sector Issues
2.16        The Moroccan government is faced with the following issues:
(i) the need to invest in major improvements in a deteriorating public health
services infrastructure in order to improve the general acceptability of
health services; (ii) increase the effective utilization of existing
resources; and (iii) generate additional resources to meet future needs.
Continuing gains in health status will depend to a large extent on the
capacity of the system to adjust to new demands generated by gradual changes
in the epidemiological pattern and the rising expectations of a population
that is expected to double in the next thirty years.
2.17        Deterioration of Existing Facilities.  The chronic neglect of the
sector in recent years, which is reflected in inadequate levels of funding
(see Paras. 2.05 and 2.07) has led to frequent disruptions and deficiencies in
the delivery of care at all levels. Pressure on hospitals to provide routine
curative care has increased because of the deficiencies at lower levels in the
system. Hospitals and medical equipment have not been maintained either, and
the dedication of budget resources to the completion of hospitals planned ten
years ago has caused existing facilities to suffer, as sufficient funds have
not been made available for major repair and renovation work, for operations
or for the extension and improvement of the ambulatory care network. The MOH
has not purchased a single piece of radiology equipment in five years, and
surgical units of hospltals operate at less than fifty percent of capacity
because of the shortaga of surgical instruments and sterilization equipment.
Basic emergency services in all but the largest hospitals are inadequate
because of the lack of proper care and maintenance of equipment and failure to
replace obsolete and damaged equipment on a regular basis. The effort to keep
the hospitals operating, even at a low level of productivity, has in turn
drained resources from the primary health care services. Until this pattern
of disinvestment is reversed, it is difficult to imagine that other, badly



-8
needed reforms of the sector will take place, and even if undertaken, will
easily gain acceptance by the public. MOH is aware of the immediate priority
that needs to be attached both to rehabilitation of existing stock and to a
more balanced allocation of scarce budget funds between various levels of the
system. Plans for the rehabilitation of health infrastructure on a priority
basis have been developed, and rationalization of health services with the
dual objective of efficiency and effectiveness in service delivery will be a
critical feature of administrative reform in the sector.
2.18        Ineffective Utilization of Existing Resources.  Management and
planning of the health sector is highly centralized in MOH. As a result, the
system does not easily respond to local needs, which in turn impedes any
effort to introduce mechanisms aimed at more efficient use of facilities and
to generate individual and community contributions in support of health sector
operations. At the same time, administrative practices are in many respects
archaic and are characterized by redundancy and duplication. MOH is aware of
the advantages of decentralizing management and planning responsibilities, and
a program of gradual delegation of such tasks in underway (see Para. 2.12).
However, this will require additional training to ensure that appropriate
managerial ability and professional skills are available, as well as
information systems that will allow staff to effectively use the resources at
their disposal, and to monitor and evaluate the effects of their
intervencions. While such skills are sorely lacking at all levels of the
system, MA". programs are being developed, with some support from the Health
Development Project, to address these constraints.
2.19        Resource mobilization and credibility of public sector health
servic.s.s. The government's ability to mobilize extrabudgetary resources in
support of the health sector has been severely constrained by the low
credibility of the public health services and the administrative ossification
of the public health system. Visible improvements in service delivery will
require substantial pump-priming investment and will need to precede any call
for further community and patient contributions to the system. The successful
mobilization of additional resources for the sector will be critical not only
to ensure adequate operation of the existing health system, but also for any
expansion of the system to meet future needs. This process should involve a
modest but sustained increase in the sector share of the central government
budget, beginning with the programs supported by the proposed project, as well
as means to reduce its heavy dependence on that budget by mobilizing
additional resources from local authorities, and through selective increases
in cost recovery from users of public health services. In addition, the role
that the private sector could play as a complement to and, to some extent, as
a substitute for, public services, needs to be examined further. In this
context, a crucial role will be played by health insurance, and the
relationship between the MOH and the two social security systems, the CNSS and
the CNOPS, needs to be rationalized. Options are being developed in the
framework of a major health financing study supported by the Health
Development Project. Already, several initiatives to increase cost recovery
have been tested by the MOH and are being expanded. Specialist consultation
fees at the CHU level were instituted recently, at 2ODH per visit, and the
CHUs and seven other hospitals now keep the fees collected for use in the



- 9 -
iacility. Receipts in these facilities more than doubled from 1987 to 1988,
and the system is being expanded to other hospitals during 1989.
Bank Experience with Lending in t., lector
2.20        The Bank's experience ii the sector began with the Health
Development Project (Ln. 2572-MOR), which will receive US$28.4 million of Bank
financing over a six year period. It was approved in June, 1985, but did not
become effective until July, 1986, because of a delay in issuing the decree
approving the loan agreement. It is designed to assist Government to
strengthen primary health services in three provinces on a pilot basis,
improve the drug supply system, enhance the capacity of the MOH to plan for
further expansion of the health services, train personnel, conduct research
and evaluation activities, and administer the health services. The project is
complemented by smaller, parallel investments in health and family planning
services by USAID, UNFPA, UNICEF, UNDP, and WHO.
2.21        Although disbursements have been slow until recently, project
implementation has been very satisfactory from a technical standpoint; local
training and planning for the implementation of the new primary health care
strategy began before project effectiveness. The logistics of primary health
care delivery under a wide range of conditions have been tested and refined,
and more than 50X of the first phase of construction of dispensaries, health
centers, and rural hospitals in the three provinces has been completed.
Disbursements have been lower than anticipated because of the failure of MOF
and MOH to allocate the anticipated counterpart resources to the project
during the fVrst two years of project implementation. The concentration of
resources in three pilot provinces, while justified from s4 technical
standpoint, also created understandable resistance from other provinces and
complicated the annual allocation of the investment budget. This problem has
been resolved gradually with the successful execution of major elements of the
project and recognition that the long term benefits of the project extend
beyond the three pilot provinces.
2.22        The project has served as a catalyst for many other changes in the
MOH. A major reorganization of MOH has been approved and will be implemented
during 1990. The Bank has reviewed the proposal for reorganization of the
Ministry and supports this effort to increase administrative efficiency. The
pilot experiment to decentralize the management of selected hospitals
(Para. 2.13) is being expanded to include more hospitals; provincial level
basic health services staff have been trained and have prepared provincial
level plans for the implementation of the basic health services programs. A
standard list of drugs has been developed for the basic health services, and
the designs are being finalized for a small drug formulation and packaging
facility which would meet the needs of the MOH only for a selected number of
essential drugs for the primary i.4alth care programs. In addition, a major
study on health financing, sources and uses of funds, options and constraints,
is nearing completion, and the first phase of a study of hospital
administration has been completed. The MOH has also undertaken a study of the
emergency medical services and has inventoried all of the MOH buildings, x-ray
equipment and vehicles in an effort to improve MOH planning for infrastructure
investments. Planning for investments in new infrastructure is now being



- 10 -
linked to priority program goals, such as the extension of maternal and child
health services, and improvements in emergency care and transport,
particularly for accident victims and obstetrical emergencies.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.23        The project would contribute to the GOM objective of expanding
social sector programs and hence mitigate some of the adverse effects of
economic stabilization and adjustment by intensifying its efforts to target
these programs to poor ard underserved areas. It would constitute the initial
phase of a long term effort to reverse the negative trends in the evolution of
the sector and reestablish sustainable public health programs nationwide. It
would build on pilot-scale MOH efforts under the Bank-financed Health
Development Project which have formulated sound standards and flexible
institutional arrange"qents for the delivery of primary health care and also
upgrade the quality of selected diagnostic and emergency services. While the
proposed investments are expected to play a crucial catalytic role in COM
efforts to ensure the continuation of essential basic health services, they
will also permit MOH to move ahead with the design of a package of policy
reforms which encourage improvements in quality and efficiency, increase cost
recovery for curative care, mobilize additional resources in support of the
sector, streamline arrangements for services financed by the CNSS and CNOPS.
It would also act as a catalyst for additional concessional funding, from
bilateral donors as well as WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, and NGOs, which is not
available in the amount required to undertake a major rehabilitation of the
health services. A Bank-sponsored breakthrough ensuring adequate financing
for essential public investments was initiated under the SAL (Para.1.02) and
needs the reinforcement of the proposed project to enhance the effectiveness
of MOH utilization of its investment resources and ensure continued
improvements in the quality and coverage oC health services.
Other Donors
2.24        Several other donors are supporting GON efforts to improve health
and nutrition status and reduce fertility. USAID has prepared a US$30
million, seven year Family Planning and Child Survival Project which began in
October, 1989, as a follow-up to a US$23 million project which ended in 1989.
The new project will finance training, technical assistance, commodities, and
some operating costs of the Maternal Child Health-Family Planning programs.
The design of this project has been coordinated closely with the preparation
of the Bank project to ensure complementarity and avoid overlap. UNICEF has a
US$7.5 million project which supplies technical assistance, vaccines, and oral
rehydration salts in support of the immunization, diarrheal disease control,
nutrition, health education, and MCH programs. UNFPA is providing about US$3
million yearly to finance a comprehensive program of population activities
including population education in schools and the agricultural extension
services, analysis of census data, commodity and technical support of MCH-FP
services, traininig, and technical assistance. UNDP is providing US$3 million
of technical assistance and training in support of hospital and laboratory
equipment maintenance programs (para. 2,12). The WHO program finances about
US$0.8 million per year of consultant services, fellowships, and training.
Other bilateral donors, including France, Spain, Canada, and China provide



- 11 -
mainly fellowships, consultant services, and commodities. The proposed
project provides a supportive framework for the complementary efforts of other
donors because it addresses systemic issues related to the distribution and
financing of health services, the adequacy of existing infrastructure and the
policy environment of the sector.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
3.01        The principal objectives of the project are to assist Government
to: (1) reestablish sustainable health programs nationwide, reinforce priority
health programs in primary care and at the first level of referral, and obtain
maximum yield from past infrastructure investments; (2) strengthen the
administration and management of services provided by the MOH in order to
increase efficiency, control costs and facilitate the implementation of
administrative reforms designed to decentralize the management of health
services; and (3) promote sector and policy reforms wh'.h address longer term
issues related to the evolution and structure of the public and private sector
health services delivery systems, financing mechanisms, and the mobilization
of resources in support of the sector.
Project Description
3.02        The proposed project would be implemented over a period of five
years, at a total cost of US$171.3 million equivalent, and would consist of
three components:
(a)   Restoration of Basic Health Services (US$109.5 million);
(b)   Strengthening of Emergency, Diagnostic and Referral Services
(US$55.0 million);
(c)   Administrative and Policy Reforms (US$6.8 million).
Basic Health Services (USS109.5 million)
3.03        The project would provide the resources required for the
nationwide implementation of key elements of the primary health care coverage
strategy which were developed and tested under the Health Development Project.
Emphasis would be placed on improving the outreach coverage and services in a
large number of existing facilities through renovation, repair, and
reequipping, rather than expanding the service delivery network through the
construction of additional facilities, in order to optimize the utilization of
the MOH operating budget. A national inventory of health facilities which was
reviewed by the Bank project preparation team provided the basis for these
investment plans. Expansion of the facilities network would be undertaken
during a later phase, when financing policies have been developed and the full
operating potential of the existing network has been achieved.



- 12 -
3.04        Special emphasis will be given to the reinforcement of the Basic
Health Services programs, comprised of: (i) Maternal-Child Health, Family
Planning and Nutrition services, which includes a safe motherhood initiative
to increase from 25X to 35% the number of women ard infants who benefit from
pre-natal care, and to increase the number of attended deliveries to 601 of
births; (ii) Control of Communicable Diseases, including a major national
initiative for the detection and control of tuberculosis which will begin in
1990, and malaria, schistosomiasis, AIDS and other STD programs; (iii) Control
of Non-communicable Diseases, mental health and dental health; (iv) School and
University Health programs which are closely coordinated with the Ministry of
Education; (v) Environmental Control programs to treat rural water sources,
and improve community hygiene; (vi) Support Programs, including improvements
in the operations of the central MOH information service, analyses of
community level demographic and health data which are routinely collected by
the MOH, and training programs of the newly created National Institute of
Training and Research in Public Health Administration. The operational
strategy which is now in use in the three pilot provinces will be used
throughout the country to implement these programs. Existing facilities which
were designed to offer basic care provided by nurse aides would be converted
to health centers and equipped as necessary to accommodate maternity beds and
consultation rcoms for the physicians who now work in these basic health
service facilities in underserved areas. This would reduce pressure on
hospital outpatient services and provide care at the least cost level.
3.05        This component would include the following elements:
(a)   Renovation and rehabilitation of 17 rural hospitals; extension of
about 50 urban dispensaries to upgrade them to health centers; the
transformation of about 35 rural dispensaries into health centers
with 4 - 10 maternity beds; creation of a maternity unit with 4 -
10 beds in about 40 existing rural health centers; the renovation/
extension of 8 health centers and one existing laboratory to
improve basic radiology and laboratory services;
(b)   Provision of furniture, medical equipment, vehicles, essential
drugs, materials and supplies;
(c)   36 P/M (persons/month) of consultant assistance for the
development of technical manuals, architectural services for civil
works, training of trainers and continuing education for
provincial medical and paramedical personnel, epidemiological
studies and surveys, and 227 P/M of fellowships in applied health
sciences.
StrengtheninKmaehabilitation of Referral and Emergency Services
(USS55.0 million),
3.06          The project would improve the quality of ambulatory and
emergency services provided at the first level of referral in regional and
provincial hospitals through the development of national standards for
emergency care, the renovation and refurbishment of emergency d,partments in
14 provincial hospitals, and training in emergency medicine and in the use of



- 13 -
diagnostic and treatment protocols recently developed by the MOH.  Building
and medical equipment maintenance systems would be reinforced as part of the
effort to improve and sustain the productivity of the health services.
3.07        The project would provide the following:
(a)   Renovation of 14 provincial hospital emergency services to include
space for resuscitation, observation, minor treatment, and general
consultations. The emergency services of five regional hospitals
would be equipped to provide acute emergency care, surgery,
radiology, laboratory and related services;
(b)   Renovation and equipment of approximately 500 M2 of space in each
of five regional hospitals for the accommodation of maintenance
centers for buildings and biomedical equipment;
(c)   About 30 provincial and zone hospitals would receive medical,
surgical, and radiology equipment; vehicles would be provided for
emergency transport and referral for 17 rural hospitals;
(d)   Approximately 612 P/M of in-country and overseas training in
emergency medicine, advanced cardiac life support, advanced trauma
life support for physicians, and for paramedical personnel,
training in the use of the diagnostic and treatment protocols
which have recently been deveioped by the MOH; architectural
services for civil works and training for MOH architecture and
engineering personnel in building and bio-medical equipment
maintenance programs;
(e)   Twenty p/m of local and foreign consultant services would be used
to assist in the development and implementation of national
standards for emergency care, planning and management of the
emergency medical communications system, and the development of
additional training programs for emergency care providers.
.4
Administrative. Sector and Policy Reform (USS6.8 million),
3.08        The project will support ongoing MOH efforts to address major
structural and financial issues in the health sector and help develop new
initiatives to improve sector performance and generate additional resources.
The findings of studies on the management, administration and financing of
health services which are being carried out under the Health Development
Project will be used to test new approaches to better sector performance.
These studies are aimed at seeking ways to strengthen management and
administrative practices at the central, provincial, and facility level, at
providing guidelines for a gradual rationalization of the present health
system and a better allocation of resources in a system which has become
excessively skewed towards tertiary curative care, and at identifying and
proposing means to increase sector resources.
3.09        The project will strengthen management and planning capabilities
by the introduction of appropriate staff training programs and management
information systems, including the development of E master plan for the MOH
information systems and the creation of a provincial level data base for
administrative and personnel records. Measures aimed at increasing managerial



- 14 -
autonomy at provincial levels will be field tested, such as increased local
responsibility for planning of health services development, for personnel
management, and for the use of budgetary resources and incidental revenues.
It will study means to streamline administrative practices at the central as
well as provincial levels, including in particular matters relating to
persor.nel administration, and to accounting and budgeting practices.
3.10        The project will address medium and long term issues relatea to
the structure and financing of health services as a follow-up to the
recommendation3 arising from the ongoing health financing and hospital
administration studies, especially as they relate to identification of the
cost of health services and reinf3rcement of cost recovery mechanisms in the
system, to the potential role of uther actors in chanielling additional
resources into health, notably from the private sector and from public and
private sector health insurance arrangements. During negotiations, the
government provided assurances that it would carry out a program in support of
selected sector reforms in accordance with an implementation plan acceptable
to the Bank (Para 6.01, a). The plan includes the following measures:
(1) within twelve months after the rehabilitation of each hospital included in
the project, the hospital would be authorized to retain all fees which it
collects for services in order to apply such fees toward the coverage of its
operating expenses; (2) an improved fee collection syste.m which is designed to
ensure billing and facilitate collection of fees for all services rendered by
the hospitals would be developed and introduced by June 30, 1992; (3) a study
of the  ature and extent of the provision by the private sector of health care
services would be prepared and furnished to the Bank for its review by
December 31, 1991, in order to identify constra4-its and incentives to the
development of additional private sector activities; views would be exchanged
with the Bank on the results and recommendations of the study with a view to
developing a suitable medium-term program to promote the development of
private health care services in accordance with the Borrower's health sector
policies; and (4) a study to identify and recommend suitable ways to
rationalize public said private sector health insurance systems, and to expand
progressively the coverage of said systems, would be carried out and a copy of
the study would be provided to the Bank by December 31, 1991, after which
views would be exchanged with the Bank on the results and recommendations of
this study with a view to devising a suitable strategy for such
rationalization and expansion over the medium-term.
3.11        This component would include the following:
(a) Furniture, materials and equipment including computers for about 26
provincial administrative units, construction of 6 provincial level
administration buildings in provinces which currently use provincial hospital
space for their administrative offices, materials, equipment, and vehicles;
(b) Training in management and administration, information systems
development and use, training of trainers, and consultant services (128 p/m)
to develop the master plan for the KOH information system and administrative
manuals in personnel management, and to help undertake policy and progratm
studies and test new programs related to sector reforms in planning,
management and administratiorn, information systems development, and staff
training.



- 15 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Costs
4.01              The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at
US$171.3 million, includir.g taxes and duties. The total estimated cost, local
and foreign cost elements, by project component, is summarized in Table 4.01.
Project costs by category of expenditure are shown in Table 4.02. Details of
project costs are shown in Annex 7.
Table 4.01:
PROJECT COSTS BY COMENT 1/
(OH Miltion)                 (USS Million)                   X Total
.------                       ...............X Foreign Base
Local    Foreign  Totat      Locat    Foreign  Total       Exchwwe  Costs
..................................................................
A. BASIC HEAI rH SERVICES
Service Delivery Systm                 149.8    162.5    312.4        17.6     19.1      36.7        52         2?
MCHI  FP a Nutrition                    37.4     58.3      95.7       4.4       6.9      11.3        61          8
Control of Commalcable Diseases         65.8    146.0    231.8        10.1     17.2      27.3        63         20
Control of Mon-Coo. ofseeses             7.3      12.7     19.9       0.9       1.5       2.3        64          2
Scool and University Health              7.0       13      20.0        0.8      1.5       2.4        45          2
Emwironerntel Control                   11.7      14.1     25.8        1.4      1.7       3.0        55          2
Skwert Progr                            13.2     20.3      33.5        1.6      2.4       3.9        61          3
.... ......... ......... ............. .. .. ......... .. .... ........ ............ --------  .........
Sb-total BASIC HEALTH SERVICES             312.2    426.9    739.0       36.7      50.2      86.9        58         64
B. REFERRAL SERVICES                       179.7    198.4    378.1        21.1     23.3      44.5        52         33
C. ADMINISTRATIVE REFOfuS                   16.4     14.2      30.6        1.9      1.7       3.6        46         3
D. SECTORAL REFOURS                          4.3      11.2     15.6        0.5      1.3       1.8        72          1
..... ..... ...... .......... ............. ......... .................. ......... .........
Total BASELINE COSTS                       512.7    650.7   1163.4       60.3      76.6    136.9         56        100
Physical Contingencies                  43.7      56.8    100.5        5.1      6.7      11.8        57          9
Price Cot.iigenifes                     82.8    109.1    191.9         9.7     12.8      22.S        57         16
......  ............ .........    ............. .........  ............. .........    ............. ........................... .... ....
Total PROJECT COSTS                         9.2    816.7   1455.8         75.2     96.1     uil.3        56        125
/ Irncluding taxes ani dutfe estimted at LISS41.0 million



- 16  -                                                                   1
Table 4.02: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGQORY F EXPENDITURE
SWARY ACCOUNTS COST WSSRY 1/
(OH Million)                  (USS Million)                   X Total
....... ............. .  --- -S------------------------ X Foreign Base
Local    Foreign   Total      Locat    Foreign   Total      Exchange  Costs
........................................... .................................................................. ..
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil iiorks                        138.0      74.3    212.4        16.2      8.7      25.0         35        18
B. Equipment                           141.8    263.3    405.1         16.7     31.0      47.7         65        35
C. ':.icles                             23.8      23.8      47.6       2.8       2.8       5.6         50         4
0. Training aW TA                        4.9      19.6      24.5       0.6       2.3       2.9         80         2
E. Drugs and Suppties                  131.1    196.7    327.8         15.4     23.1      38.6         60        28
. . . . . . .....  .. . . .   .  . . ..  . . . .  . .. .. . .  ... . . .  .. . . .
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     439.6    577.7   1017.4        51.7      68.0    119.7          57        87
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs                      73.0      73.0    146.0        8.6       8.6      17.2         50        13
Totel RECIRRENT COSTS                       73.0      73.0    146.0        8.6       8.6      17.2         50        13
Total BASELINE COSTS                       512.7    650.7   1163.4        60.3      76.6    136.9          56       100
Physical Cantingancies                  43.7      56.8    100.5        5.1       6.7      11.8        J7          9
Price ContingW                          82.8    109.1    191.9         9.7      12.8      22.6         57        16
Total PROJECT COSTS                        639.2    816.7   1455.8         75.2     96.1    171.3          56       125
1/ Including taxes ari duties estisated at USS41.0 million.
4.02              Basis of Cost Estimates.  The base cost estimates for the project
reflect prices at appraisal, projected to negotiations held in December, 1989.
The estimates for civil works are based on the actual cost of current
contracts and on the unit cost of construction for similar facilities financed
by the Health Development Project and on information on general construction
costs in Morocco.  The cost estimates for equipment, f'4rniture, and drugs are
based on agreed lists of items to be procured and on the actual cost of
procuring similar items in 1989, CIF, and include transportation from the port
of entry and local installation. The estimated cost of vehicles is based on
recent price quotations obtained by the MOH for other vehicle procurement.
Consultant costs, are based on recent experience in the Moroccan MOH and USAID
as are the cost of fellowships, including travel, and local training.
4.03              Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include taxes and customs
duties which are estimated at US$41.0 million.



- 17 -
4.04        Contingencv Allowances.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance of US$11.8 million for physical contingencies, equal to 9% of the
estimated total cost of the project. It also includes price contingencies
calculated for t:he period beginning at negotiations (December 1989) and in
accordanc  wi.th the project implementation schedule (Annex 8). Price
contingencies to the completion of the project are estimated at US$22.6
million, and represent 16% of the base cost. Annual price increases are
estimated at 5% for foreign and local costs for 1989 - 1995.
4.05        Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
component of the proposed project is US$96.1 million equivalent or about 56%
of total project costs. This estimate is based on the assumption that some
construction materials, furniture components, drugs, supplies, vehicles, and
all medical equipment and fuel are directly imported; local architecture and
engineering firms will do all design work; and the Ministry of Public Works
will supervise civil works construction. The resulting foreign exchange
content by category of expenditure is estimated as follows: (a) civil works -
35%; (b) equipment - 65%; (c) vehicles - 50%; (d) technical assistance - 80%;
(e) training - 80%; (f) operations and maintenance - 50%; drugs and supplies -
60%.
4.06        Incremental Operating Costs.  Incremental operating costs
generated by the project are estimated at US$7.0 million per year at project
completion. They are generated by drugs and other medical supplies, office
supplies, fu-i, travel and subsistence costs for program supervision and to
increase the Lnbility of outreach personnel. These incremental operating
costs will represent about 3.6% of the MOH operating budget in the final year
of the project. The operating budget must also increase by about 5% per year
to cover inflation (See Annex 5). It is anticipated that the increase would
be covered by a combination of revenues from fees for services and the central
government budget. The feasibility of future expansion of the health care
delivery system is expected to be enhanced by savings in the unit cost of
services, improved management of hospitals and emergency services, and the
increasing efficiency of cost recovery systems.
B. Project Financing
4.07        The proposed IBRD loan of US$104.0 million will finance 80% of
project costs net of taxes and duties, which represents 100% of foreign
exchange costs and 10% of local costs. The Government of Morocco will provide
the equivalent of US$67.3 million to finance 90% of local costs, which
includes US$41.0 million of taxes and duties. Retroactive financing of up to
US$4.8 million, equal to 5% of the loan amount, is proposed to cover payments
made after January 1, 1990, for expenditures for which draft tender documents
have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. The retroactive financing is
proposed because of the urgent need for these programs and to permit the MOH
to begin project implementation early in the calendar year. The GOM has
included in the 1990 budget a total of US$20 million equivalent for the
initiation of the project. The financing plan, broken down by category of
expenditure, is shown below:



- 18 -
Table 4.03: FINtNCING PLAN
(US$ millic 4r. equivalent)
IBRD       GOVERNMENT     Total
.... . . -- --. - -----------------  -----------------  . ...... ...Local  Duties  &
Amount    X   Amourt    X   Anmowit    %    F.E.  (Excl. Taxes) Taxes
A. Civil Works             24.0   80    6.0   20   30.0  17.5   10.5         16.5    3.0
B. Equipment, vehicles,
drugs and supplies       74.6   64   41.4   36   116.0  67.7   72.1         8.1   35.8
C. Training and TA          5.4  1O0    0.0      a    5.4  3.2    3.5         1.7    0.2
D. Incremental Recurrent Costs  -    -    19.9  100   19.9  11.6   M0.0       7.9    2.
.      ... ..            - --- .. - ....  ---------
Total DISBURSEM4ENT        104.0   61   67.3   39  171.3  100.0   96.1       34.2   41.0
C. Project Implementation
4.08        Organization and Management.  The overall planning and
coordination of project activities would be under the direction of the Chief
of the Planning Division of the MOH, which is under the direct supervision of
the Secretary General, and would be assisted by a Project Coordinating
Committee headed by the Secretary General, which includes representatives from
each of the MOH Directorates involved with the project, a representative of
the Ministry of Public Works, and a Project Monitoring Unit (Para. 4.09). The
Gommittee would meet on a quarterly basis to ensure coordination of the
various project activities. At negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that the Project Coordinating Committee would be maintained
throughout the project implementation period with organization, terms of
reference and membership satisfactory to the Bank (Para. 6.01, b). The
Ministry of Health Directorates are responsible for the implementation and
follow-up of all project activities. The technical supervision of all
activities related to basic health services and referral services are to be
coordinated at the provincial level by the Provincial Medical Chief.
4.09        The Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) which was established under the
Health Development Project, would be maintained to ensure experienced project
monitoring and overall coordination of the administrative and financial
aspects of implementation of all project components, including procurement,
disbursements, and project accr-ints and audits. The Unit would be supervised
by the Chief of the Division of Planning, which is under the office of the
Secretary General. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that the Government would maintain the project unit with organization, terms
of reference and staffing satisfactory to the Bank, during the entire project
implementation period (Para. 6.01, c).
4.10        The arrangements for the supervision of civil works would be
identical to those for the ongoing project, for which the i-inistry of Public
Works assumes the responsibility for selecting the architects, engineers and



- 19 -
contractors, in accordance witl pieviosw.Iy approved procurement procedures.
The MOH Directions of Equipment arid Planning would participate in the process
through a functioning inter-minis.crial commission.  The Ministry of Works
would again be responsible for the bid documents, manage the bid process, and
through its regional offices, supcrvise 'oxecution of the works. The Chief of
the Planning Division, assisted by the 4PMU, would continue to work with the
Procurement Division of the MOB on all other procurement.
4.11        Project Monitorin  a___ Evaluation.  To facilitate project
implementation, a project launch workshop would be organized by the Project
Coordinating Committee at the beginning of project implementation. Annual
project implementation plans would be prepared by the Planning Division under
the direction of the Project Coordinating Committee. Overall monitoring,
reporting and evaluation of project implementation will be the responsibility
of the Planning Divisior., and the PMU which will ensure timely collection of
information needed for the preparation of the annual progress reports, which
would be submitted to the Bank not later than March 31 of each year and would
cover the achievements of the previous calendar year. A mid-project
evaluation would form the basis for the report to be submitted in 1992. The
MOH will monitor progress in meeting project goals through the use of a
limited number of indicators of health services delivery.
D. Procurement
4.12        Procurement arrangements are described below and summarized in
Table 4.04.
Table 4.04: PROCUREMENT a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method        Total Cost
Project Element                      ICB   L&B   OTHER b/  N.A.
Civil Works                                29.5   0.5                30.0
(23.6) (0.4)             (24.0)
Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles,    79.2   34.5   2.3                116.0
Materials, Drugs, and Supplies    (63.6)  (9.0) (2.0)               (74.6)
Consultant Services, Fellowships,                 5.4                 5.4
Local Training                                   (5.4)               (5.4)
Incremental Recurrent Costs c/                           19.9        19.9
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                               79.2   64.0   8.2    19.9       171.3
IBRD Financing                     (63.6) (32.6) (7.8)   (0.0)    (104.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective anounts financed by the Bank.
bi Procurement through force account, from UNICEF, or W4HO, or through local shopping
c/ Incremental Recurrent costs of US$19.9 million for personnel and other operating costs will be financed
by GOM



- 20 -
4.13        Civil Works.  Civil works estimated to cost less than US$1 million
per contract up to an aggregate nmount not to exceed the equivalent of US$29.5
million may be procured under competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.  This would apply to the
renovation of 19 provincial hospitals, the construction of 6 small provincial
administration buildings, renovations and repairs of other facilities located
in remote areas which will be too small (average contract size is less than
US$50,000) to attract foreign contractors. Civil works contracts of less than
US$20,000, up to an aggregate cost of US$500,000 equivalent, for the
remodeling of small health facilities in remote areas may be carried out by
force account with the Bank's prior approval. The procedures for local
competitive bidding currently applied in Morocco are generally acceptable in
so far as they promote competition. There are, however, certain practices
which need to be modified to be fully acceptable to the Bank. At
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that procurement procedures which
would be applied under the project would be acceptable to the Bank
(para. 6.01, d).
4.14        Goods.  The total cost of equipment, furniture, materials,
supplies, specialized vehicles and drugs, is estimated at US$116.0 million, of
which US$79.2 million will be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers
will be given a margin of preference of 15% or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. To the extent practicable, contracts will be grouped in
bid packages of US$500,000 equivalent or more, each. Other equipment,
specialized vehicles, furniture, materials and supplies for the health
facilities, (estimated to cost in the aggregate of US$2.3 million) may be
procured from UNICEF or WHO. Items which do not exceed US$500,000 in value
and not exceeding in aggregate US$34.5 million equivalent may be procured
through competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.13). Contracts for miscellaneous goods
amounting to US$25,000 or less per contract, but not exceeding US$2 million
equivalent in total, may be procured through prudent shopping after obtaining
at least three price quotations.
4.15        Services.  The selection and appointment of consultants and
technical assistance specialists for an estimated total value of
US$3.4 million will be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.
4.16        Bank Review Requirements.  Civil works contracts in excess of
US$400,000 equivalent and contracts for goods in excess of US$400,000
equivalent will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Such contracts will
comprise about 60% of the total estimated value of civil works, furniture,
material, equipment and vehicles. Other contracts will be subject to Bank
review after award. Terms of reference and conditions of employment of
consultants and advisors as well as their qualifications will be satisfactory
to the Bank. The standard documents used by the MOH for the procurement of
goods and services were reviewed and approved at appraisal.



- 21 -
E. Disbursement
4.17        The loan of US$104.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over a
period of five and a half years (Para 4.19). Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1995. A disbursement sched-ule is attached in
Annex 9. Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made as follows:
(a) 80X of expenditures for civil works;
(b) 1001 of foreign expenditures for equipment, furniture, materials,
supplies and vehicles with the exception of those vehicles noted
in Para. 4.14; 100X of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured items; and 701 of local expenditures for other items
procured locally;
(c) 1001 of expenditures for censultant services, fellowships, and
training.
4.18        Withdrawal applications for contracts above US$100,000 equivalent
would be fully documented. Disbursements against contracts below US$100,000
would be based on statements of expenditure. Documentation for these
expenditures need not be submitted to the Bank, but would be kept in the PMU
and would be subject to review by project supervision missions and by the
auditors.
F. Status of Preparation
4.19        The current country disbursement profile is 6 years.  The proposed
five year implementation period takes account of the experience with the
Health Development Project which is now being implemented on schedule, after
initial start-up delays caused primarily by government budgetary constraints.
The new project is in an advanced state of preparation which would permit
timely implementation because: (a) construction is, for the most part, limited
to renovations of existing facilities which have already been identified and
standard building plans are available for the six new administration
buildings; and (b) equipment lists have been completed, reviewed and approved
by the Bank based on technical specifications developed for past MOH
procurement. Full government and parliamentary approval has been obtained for
the MOH allocation of US$20 million in its 1990 investment budget for the
first year of project implementation. A review of KOH execution of its 1988-
89 investment budgets indicates that the implementation level planned for the
project is well within the capacity of the MOH. The MOH is continuing its
major efforts to streamline administrative, accounting and procurement
procedures in order to ensure the timely execution of this and other
investment projects.
G. Special Account
4.20        To facilitate the timely withdrawal of the proceeds of the loan, a
Special Account would be opened by the Borrower and maintained in a financial
institution acceptable to the Bank, and would be used to cover the IBRD share
of eligible expenditures. After loan effectiveness, IBRD would, upon receipt



- 22 -
and approval of the Borrower's withdrawal application, make an initial deposit
to the Special Account in an amount of up to US$6 million equivalent, which
represents three months average disbursements. The Bank would replenish the
Special Account as requested upon receipt and approval of the borrower's
withdrawal application showing evidence that amounts paid from the special
account were eligible for financing from the proceeds of the loan. A
replenishment request would normally be sent to IBRD when 50 percent of the
funds have been disbursed.
H. Accounts and Audits
4.21        The MOH would keep separate accounts for all project-related
expenditures, which would be audited annually by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with appropriate auditing principles.
Copies of the auditor's report and the audited accounts will be provided to
the Bank for review within six months after the end of the fiscal year. These
reports will include an opinion (and comments as necessary) on the methods
employed in compiling the statement of expenditures, their accuracy, the
relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for Bank financing, and the
stand of record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing.



- 23 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
5.01        In the short and medium term, the proposed project would raise the
credibility of the public sector health services by reinforcing the essential
primary, diagnostic and emergency health services of the MOH in a time of
fiscal stringency. The project would contribute to MOH goals to reduce infant
and maternal morbidity and mortality, improve the nutrition status of
vulnerable population groups, control preventable diseases, and reinforce MOH
ability to respond to the growing number of accidents which require emergency
medical care. The project's support of administrative and financial reforms
is expected to contribute to improved planning, personnel and financial
management, increased project implementation capacity aerd higher productivity
in the sector.
5.02        In the medium to long term, improvements in the MOH miintenance
and repair capabilities are expected to safeguard investments in
infrastructure and equipment, and sector reforms are expected to provide
Morocco with a financially and economically sustainiable health system. The
sector and policy reform programs are expected to facilitate an increase in
individual, public and private sector expenditures on healt1a care without
depending solely on central government revenues for the entire increase.
Environmental Impact
5.03        The rehabilitation of health facilities to be financed by the
project does not involve major structural changes or siting problems. The
impact of construction is expected to be negligible because only existing
facilities are involved, however the repair and renovation of health facility
water and waste disposal systems will benefit the communities involved, as
will the increased capability of the provincial health services to test and
treat rural water supplies. The project was reviewed under the Bank's
Environmental Assessment procedures and determined to be in Category C, for
projects which do not result in a significant environmental impact.
Risks
5.04        The principal risks relate to GON commitment to provide adequate
financial resources for the health sector on a sustainable basis, and the
implementation capacity of the MOH. The risks would be mitigated in two ways.
First, the MOH and the MOF have already outlined the investment program which
would be financed by the project in the course of their investment review in
July, 1989. The MOH investment budget for 1990 has been approved and includes
an allocation for the project. Second, the project would be included in the
TIP and monitored under future Bank reviews of the public investment program.
The experience gained in the first Bank-financed project is expected to reduce
initial delays in project start-up. Equipment lists have been prepared,
reviewed and approved by the Bank, as have documents related to the
rehabilitation of civil works and procurement of goods. Moreover, the ongoing
efforts of the MOH to streamline its aeministrative, management and
information systems, including decentralization of accounting and procurement
procedures, and the administrative reforms supported by the project are
expected to increase MOH project implementation capacity c;onsiderably.



- 24 -
VI. AGREEHENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)   it would carry out a program in support of selected sector reforms
in accordance with an imp. ementation program satisfactory to the
Bank (Para. 3.10).
(b)   The Project Coordinating Committee would be maintained throughout
the project implementation period with organization, terms of
reference and membership satisfactory to the Bank (Para. 4.08).
(c)   The Government would maintain the project unit, with organization,
terms of reference and staffing satisfactory to the Batk, during
the entire project implementation period (Para. 4.09).
(d)   procurement procedures which would be applied under the project
would be acceptable to the Bank (Para. 4.13).
6.02        Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$104.0 million to the Kingdom of Morocco.



Morocco - Health Sector Investment Loan                                                                   AMEX 1
Sumry of Administrative ard Other Reforams urder Consideration
Objectives                            Stotus of Reform Anticipated by Goverr-nit                             Options Considered to Date
_.. ...... ............ ........................... ....... ........... ...................... .......................................... ..................... .................................................   ......... .............
1. Resource eebitization
(a) Imrove cost recovery in hospitals through      A hospitat tariff structure does exist, but It is being     Right to retain revanues would be gralty extended to all
(1) the Introduction of better coltection      reviewed under the ongfrig Heatth Dvt Project (iDP)         provincial hospitats swpported umder the proposed project as
procedures, (if) selective tariff increses,   with regard to structure and level of fees, Peo  ile Gvt  they are rolwablitated and as appropriate accountirw aNd
tlii) revenue retention at the hospital level, has raised selected fees for speciaty services. and it    budgetins practices developed under the project are intro&'c2d.
is allowing certain hospitals to retain tariff revemnes
on an experimental basis; hospital _nagement can use        Devetopent of an fapoved fee cotlectfan stem designed to
such revenues at Its discretion to ifprove qulifty          ensure the collection of fees asseed for att hospitat
of services.                                                servicer, subsequently to be introduced in all hospitals.
Ne  tariff strueture vay be deetlped, based an NDP review of
sector fimncing; would be 1ntroad   initiltty in teaching and
regionat hespitats; in provincial hospitsas as they are
rehsbilitated under the project.
(b) Prmote foreign nd local private investment   NON has begun review of the neture and extent of private    Review would lead to the definition of the long-ter  role of
in clinics and hospitals ector as cealemnt  provision of care as a first step in determining its           private bealth care in context vf national health objectives a*d
to NDO  curative services, in order to ji) add  potential role as (C) a coplement to/substitute for public priorities; identification of inrentives for and constraints to
to total resources in sector, and (it) slow    services at zhe tertiary level, and Cii) an additional       the estabishment of private clinics wd hospitats along
future growth in pubilc resources golng to     cenduit for public health program.                          proposed lines; and dsvolpmnt of a proposl to facilitate the
tertiary services.                                                                                          ipaension of private practice.
(c) Develop bealth insurance ytem to (i) chmmtel                                                                Study on the rationlization of public health insurance system 
private experditures into appropriate curative                                                             based on consideratiomn of resouce bilization. coverage and            '
care. (ii) facilitate furding of private                                                                   equity, a better dff6. tion of the roles wd relationships of
provision of curative care, (ii) buffer the                                                                 the  xisting phlic (CUPS) nd  ocisl security fuded I    1(C5)
effects of rising user charges, (as well as                                                                 sytas.
(iv) Increase equity in the distribution of
the costs of curative care, an Cv) aim at
universal population covereul
(d) Participation by local authorities in the      A study on the participation of local authorities in health in light of the study, a working gosp with participation from
funding of selected puhlic health progrem  and  care Is underay; me le, NON favors a policy of local  the NOW and local outhorities ts expected to mke
services In their jurisdiction, out of         participation In construction, equiping and mintenance of recondations on local participatlon in tte health activities
central government tranfers to coenities.    facilfties                                                    and on increased local participation in the health monegmmt S
plnning proces at prwinciatl leis. The woking grot   is
expected to bgn Its wktt as ason as the results of the study
are aailable.
(e) iumn resources: equip heatth persometl with   MON currentty organizes training sessions on selected        The health mnget  institute will open with technical
skitls (technicat, mnaement, plaming) that  wedical themes and in aisinistration for its staff,            assistmnce wd eipant provided tuler the proposed loan.
are particular to the needs of the Moroccan    largety on an ad hoc basis; medical school curricula
envirowment.                                   hve been revised to increase emphasis on public heaLth    Permaent staff training pogrewa for mdicatl para-medical,
and primary care, epidecology, and mangement; a health    mgeriat  nd at nIstrative satff wilt be devetoped with
anagement institute is being set up; that institute witt  assistance provided ,-v the voposed project; the progrm wilt
also provide facitities for staff training programs.       aim both at the recycling and upgrading of staff skilts.
t                                                                                        *   !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Morocco - Neal th Sector Investment Loan                                                                ANNEX 1
Sumary of Admin/4trative and Other Reforms under Consderation
objectives                            Status  of 1efrs Anticipated by Goverremnt                           Options Cons ided to gats
2. Resource use: planning, mnagmnt & organizet ion
(a) Introjiction of needs-based plaming at         thder NtP, infomatin systms are being st.rethened          MNse will contimie to strengthen    ament and informtion
both eentral and provincial ltevels for more    and benaficia  analysis. Inctuding dmographic and         system  and extend their application to mogmeent at all
efficient attocation and use of resources      epidemiological indicators  are being introdtxed in       ltevels  it  iltt exPmnd the use of beneficiary  ntaysis in
ptalmng for prifmry care aid  ubtlatory services at       plaring, especttly at provincit  levetls, including the
national ad provincial levels to allow better definition   introdautlon of operatia   indicattors (as 2d)bltow); NWd It
of heatth priorities and Identification of high risk      will develop awd begin to imptlAt a mataerplan for
prtvinces.                                                cjtperizinig mangent nd adinistratfon furictifm  at centrat
and peririteral levels.
eb) Decentratization of unageit an                 O  is   de rtating internal rteoganizatfon to separate     Testina an  fopteontatfon of recomoendtfons of NOP studr at
atinistrative decisions for ifxoved            res sbitites at centrat tlet bv functfon; selected    centrat and perpherat ltevel.s, with particuter temhis on
resource use, Including In particuter better   hospitals hwe been given lited atonomy to t_nage          exploring the posibititite  of increaing tocat  utonmy in the
targetting of interventions at provinciet     n-perseonel opting budgts; NDP-ft wded study on             real location of the non-persute budget across categories.
levets                                        hospitat atfinistration witt make recomndations on
managent  id adtenistrative practices ad procera           *evetopnt of guidetines for acttig practies wid
with a view to expnding the delegation of resoibiities tadgt prepration will be cmpleted w Doecder. 1991,
to provinciat tevets.                                      inctuding a ptln of action for their ioptloentation at the
hospital level.
(c) Increased rote for tocat authorities in the    See 1(d) above                                            See l(d) above                                                       0
management of niatth services to ensure 
better fit with locat needs aid encourage
tocalt conern for heatth issues
Cd) Introckiction of performnce indicators to     NON hes identified sutablite indicators for progrm         Data to mnitor bestth progrm  (coverage, restts, correct
t1) monitor and evatuate health progre, and  mutitoring; onging HDP studies on financing ad hospital  isplementatiton of activities, adeQaey of resources) will be
t11) coepre perforeme of hospitals and        atnistration are expected to provide basis for d teveloping collected md anlyzed at the provincial end national levels in
hospitat services                              appropriate hospital perforwmice indicators and finatnial  suport of sector pluning, monitoring tmd evatuation efforts.
end cost indtcators for  ltl pti'c heatth services.
Hospitat eficiency indicators MiLl be developed an bals
of ongoing studies, initialty tested in regionat hospitols
and subBequently expanded to provincfat hospitals based on
the results of the ongoing study of hospital aeinistratfon.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
HEALTH DEROPMENT PROJECT
Crg alon taha,f d the Mhk*V d PubiC HeOh
I
F ~~~~~~~]b
Gawas_ 
Ong~ ~ ~   ~ .omosia
Pi am= 
I~~~~HW EOJM 3 +1  W   AEH 
_n%  0WO  -bac                          K&*,wC;H     P_ _ l, _
mi mm ' m
5  WW d e  H ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~P*



MINISTRY OF NEALT!
WREMrZATICE CHART
1989
Inapector
_   Health
CSuncil
In titut s                                                          Generatly
6 Centers_ _ 
I Division of                                                    Divislon of Coordination
General                                                        Autonomous Esteblisboemtst
Services
Direction of Preventiv        Directio  of                 Dir.ctian o                  Direction of Financial       Direction  If    a        1irectionof              Iet.t    U
r curtinof  rvn       ve   Drectiomncl                     CP                       Resurce                                                R fe;lites   r  roaFsin
Medicine                  Epidasiology                Medicine end CiiIRs                                                                                                 -- esucs  euIto
and Hlealth                 preparedness puUtnprrsonnelf on  '   cconti6                     rcin
Progrun bWorDiseTrasinins                                                                                         Legislation 
Nutrition  Cosssunicable          CP ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~nvotam                                       Training                  Professional
Educatioo   n         ContomiaLe of   n-Budget.                                                               facilities                Certification
s h eo aalth          Disoase Control                                             Accounting                  operating
Commicable Diseases                                                                     UdS
r Environ ent5l
Hygiene
Province~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Prvic       ProtnsaM
ftg
^  D0 provinces (total)
Source: Ministry  of Health



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
PSoialnServices P
Nursing School
pChiefs of Service                              %
Tenera&T I                        .                                 sOMnen
Servic*$          PerIic
Sourc e:  MiiAdministrators H
. Servic*gl           Staff Su/pervisor        >&_1
Medical Chief                                                          _      
[  ;L                      ~~~~~~~of the Distit.rot                                                          o 
*5  L1                     ~~~~~~Head of                                                                     :
*S.I.A.A.P.                                     D                       -0i
|Coordinators                                   D             ,       
Laboratori es 
Provinial Phrmcy
Provi nci al
Personnel Office                                         o
Stati sti cal Uni t             .
Provincial Cashier                           
Provi ncial Procurement                                 ^
Offi ce              IL
Suppl ies of
Transport
Secretariat
Provi nci al
Mai ntenance
Servi ce
Source: Ministry of Health



- 30 -
.'MNEX 4
ORGANNIGRAMME DU SERVICE D 'uRABTRUCTURE
DES ACTIONS AMBULATOIRES PROVINCIALES
(SIAAP)
MEDECIN CHEF DU S.I.A.A.P.
HEDECIN DIRECTEUR ADJOINT DU B.M.E.
j___ -------- MEDEC=N DIRECTEUR ADJOINT S.I.A...PP _________________----
I_________I                                     I________________________
ECONOME                                                     ADJOINT DE SANTE D.E.
_________                                                    SPECIALISTE S.I.A.AP.
ANIDZTEUR DES ACTIVITES DE PSE - NUTRITION
HYGIMEE SCMLA2IRE ET PLANNING F.%'1LTAL
ANIMATEUR DE LA LUTTE CONMRE LE PALUDISME ET
LA LUT?E CONTRE LA BIlUARZIOU.
ANIMATEUR DE LA SURVEILLANCE DES MALADIES
..., DE LA LUTTE CONTRE LA TUBERCULOSE,
LE MALADIES VEN2ERINES ET LA LEPRE.
ANIM4ATEUR DES SOINS AMBULATOIRES
ANIMATEUR DES ACTIVITES D'HYGIENE DU MILIEU
CONTROLE SAN1TAIRE AUX FRONTIERES
ANINATEUR D'EDUCATION POUR LA SANTE
ANI4ATEUR DES PRHAIMMES POUR LA NUTRITION
TECHNICIEN DES STATISTIQUES
NEDECIN-CHEF DU C.D.S.T.   (1)-    H_EDECIN CHEF DE LA CIRCONSCRIPTION SANITAIRE
NEDECIR-CHEF DU C.D.P.    (2)                                _-                           _
MEDEDIN-CHEF DU CENTRE DE REFERERCE                                               I
INFIwMIER MAJOR DE LA
CIRCONSCRIPTION SANITAIRE
|INPIRMIER CMEF DU SECTEUR |
(1) CENRE DE DIGNOSTIC SPECIALISE DE TUBERCULOSE
(2) CENTRDE  DIAGNOSTIC POLYVA<LENT !
vwFRHIRER DE SOUS-SECTEUR
source: ministry of Health



- 31 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
INVESTMENT BUDGET 1988-1992
(IN MILLIONS OF DIRHAMS)
1988     1989    1990-92
Central Administration (1)  |    7.9 |    3.9 |   10.5 I
I        J         l         I
University Hospital Centers |         l        l         l
(2 + 3)                  I   42.81    31.81        771
Regional, Provincial and              I         I        I
Zone Hospitals (4)          |     95 |      58 |  162.1 |
Basic Health Services       l         l        l
Network (5,7,10)            |  117.2 |   85.7 I  134.3 |
Health Development Project  l         I        l         l
(11)                       I      401       581   242.7
Studies and surveys (6)     |    6.6 |    2.8 |        6 |
Renovations and Maintenance I         l        l         l
(8)                        I      821    70.51   105.81
Public Health Training      l        l         l         l
Institutions (9)            |    8.4 |    4.9        6.6
Health Sector Investment    l         l         l        l
Project l/                        -  I      -        8751
TOTAL 2/                    |  399.9 |  315.6 |   1620 |
1/ MOR has proposed an allocation of DH 175.5 million (US$20 million) for 1990
2/ The Ministry of Finance has agreed to increase the KOH Investment
Budget for the 1988-92 Development Plan by DH600 million to finance
the Project.
Source: Ministry of Finance



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
RECURRENT BUDGET
1986-1989 (ACTUAL) and 1990-1993 (ESTIMATES)
(in millions of constant DH)
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993
1) IPERSONNEL               818.8 1  928.6 1  941.3 1 1026.2 1 1153.5 1 1211.2 1 1271.8 1 1335.4 1
2) IPHARKACEUTICALS     |  101.6 1  119.0 |  129.0 1  132.9 1  145.0 1  152.3 1  159.9 1  167.9 1
3) ISUBSIDIES TO NGOs   I   72.5 1  100.8 |  103.2 |  188.7 ;  205.8 |  216.1 |  226.9 |  238.2 1
4) IOTHER OPERATING          I         I         I         I    I                   I         I         I
ICOSTS                   60.1 1   53.2 1   54.7 1   74.4 1   81.0 1   85.0 1   89.2 1   93.7 1
5) ITOTAL                  1053.0 1 1201.6 1 1228.2 1 1422.0 1 1585.3 1 1664.6 1 1747.8 1 1835.2 1
6) IINCREMENTAL         I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I         I
IRECURRENT COSTS     I         I         I         I         |   12.8 |   39.4 1   55.9 1   61.2 |
7) 16) as a X of 5)     I         I         I         I         I    0.8 1    2.4 1    3.2 1    3.3 1
8) 16) as a Z of 2 +4   1         1         1         1         1    5.7 1   16.6        22.4 1   23.4 1
-- I -- - - - - - - - - -I-- - - -    I-- - - -  I-- - - -   I-- - - -   -- - - -  I-- - - -   -- - - -  -- -- --
Source: Ministry of Health and Appraisal mission Estimates
tD



- 33 -
ANNEX 6
TRAININO AND FELLOLSHIPS PIM..S.....
Page 1
TOTAL     TOTAL          DISTRIBUTION PER
COMPONENT                     ACTIVITY                 No. TRAINES  DMTIWI FEIGN            LOCAL          PROJECT YEAR
1990    1991   1992   1993
BASIC HEALTH |                                         |             |         |         |         |       |       |
SERVICES     |                                        |              |         |
MCH          ITrain nursing persoaruel in nutrition    I   1000      | 2 days  1         12000 d* hl 500  I 500  I 500  I 500  I
Isurvelilace                                                                  I
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                               II                I       I      I      I
ICommunication seminar inCH N                  645        3 ds  I |1935 daysI 500  14.80  1480  1475  1
Nutrition    INutrition fellows                        1     2       12 months | 4 pJ   I          1  4   |       |      |      |
Iseminar In Nutrition Education     |           4   |    2eeks |    p/   I    |           2 |         
I                                        I       .                I         I         I       I      I      I      I
ORT          ITraining in the use of ORS               |    300      1 days  |I         JISO  daysl 500  I500  1500  I           I
ISupervisory techniques                                                                       I      I      I      I
IIIIII                                                                                        I      I      I      I
SIDA         |Training to diagnose wd treat SIDA -   |    40         13 months I 120pl   I         1 30   | 30  | 30  1 30  |
Inurses and physiclans                   I             I          I         I         I       I                    I
School HealthISchool Health                                  500    |4 de"   1          12000 daysl 500  | 500  | 500  | 500  I
II                                                     I         I          I         I       I      I      I      I
CDC          ILeprosy                                  I    80       I 10 dys            1800 das    200 1200 1200  1200 1
I                                        I             I   .                I         I       I      I      I      I 
HIS          iTraining of provincial persormel -      |     40  |          ys      |     1160 days    40  |  40       40 |   40 
IcoLlection and treatment of demographic |
land health statistics                   I             I         I          I         i
Support      ITra;ning In Health Services             I      6       12 months I         I 12p/m  1 12   1        I      I      I
Programs     |Adminfstration                          |      3       14 months I         I 12p/m  | 12   |        |      |      |
I                                        I      2      112 enthsj I           24p/m  1 12   1        ,             I
IPletving d Evaluation                   I    30       | 21 d"s 1           1630 daes   630  |       |
IEpidemfoloey/Statistics                 1    30       | 42 days 1          11260 daysl 1260  1             I
Ioperatiors Research                     I    30       | 21 des 1           1630 days 1 630  |       |
Referral     ISeminars on the use of paramedlcal       1    240      | 5 day             11200 daysl 300  1 300  1 300  1 300  1
Services     lpersonneL in Emergency Services in
ihospitaLs
I                              I     ~      ~ I        I      *I           I       I               
IVisits to Emergency Services in other   I      5        10 days I50 daysI              30   I 20  I        |      I
Icountries                               I             I          I         I         I       I      I      I      I
I                                        I             I          I         I         I       I      I      I      I
iShort term training for the trafning of i      4        S4 dasy   56 dep  |          | 28   I 28
Itrainers In Basic and Advanced Life
ISupport
IPost graduate training In Emergency            a 8    112 monthsl 9qpm  |               24      24 |   24 |   24 |
INedicine for Physiciars                                    I          I         I            I      I      I      I
I                                        I I                I          I         I            I      I      I      I



- 34 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
TOTAL       TOTAL             DISTRIBUTION PER
COMPONENT                          ACTIVITY                       No. TRAINEES  DURATION  FOREIGN            LOCAL             PROJECT YEAR
1990     1991    1992    1993
---I----------1-.----------------------- ----------1----------- I---------1--------I----------I-------1------1------I------1
Referral       ITraining of Paranmedical Personnel  in                  500       | 2 days  |             11000 daysl  100   |  200 | 300   | 400  1
Services       lEmergency Diagnosis and Referral                 I                I           I           I           I        I        I       I        i
ICDX - RX)                                       I                I           I           I           I         I       I         
II                                                                I           I           I           I         I       I        I       I
ITraining of Trainers of Paran  dicat            |       2        13 anths |  6p/m                   |   6    | 4        6              I
lineOX - PX                                                       I           I           I           I         I       I        I       I
II                                                                I           I           I           I         I       I        I       I
ITraining of stretcher-bearers In the            I      500       1 3 days   I            11500 daysl           I 100  j 200   1 200   1
Itransport of emergency cases                    II                                 I           I          I        I            I       I
III                                                                     I           I           I          I        I            I       I
|Nanagement Training for nursing                 I       5        I14 days I              I70 days I            I  28      42
Isupervisors of emergency departments                                         I           I           I         I
I                                                I I                          I           I           I         I       I        I       I
ITraining of Physician ENS trainers              I       2        136 monthsl             I  72p/m  I  24    I  24   1  24  |            I
I                                                I                I           I           I           I         I       I        I       I
|Training of Physicians in EMS                   1      48        13 months                 144p/m   I          I       I        1144  |
...................   ........................................     .............    .........   ......................... .... ........................................................................................ .............



- 35 -
ANNEX 6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM                           Page 3
ORIGIN OF EXPERTS         DISTRIBUTION PER
COMPONENT                    ACTIVITY                  FOREIGN    LOCAL          PROJECT YEAR
1990   1991   199   1993
I... ..I I-------------------------- -----I---------I.---------
REFERRAL
SERVICES
IDevelop a national plan for Emergency     Sp/m      4p/m   |            8      4 
Imedical services                       1         1         1          1      1          I
ICommunication system development for EMSI        | 2p/   1         |      |   2 |       I
IDevelop Currieulun for EMS training    I 4p/m       2p/m   I       I           6 
ADMINISTRATIVE/SECTOR REFORM                          I         I         I       I      I      I      I
I                                       I         I         I       I      I      I      I
INational and resional planning         | Spm     Spm   I           |   5 |   5 |
ITest revenue-generating hospital
Iamenities                                 1pm       1 lp/m   I     I           21
I1                                      1         1         1       1      I      I      I
IDevelop incentives to encourage local                         I                  I
land foreign investments                I 3p/m    1 lp/m   I        I   4
jFollow-up on health financing study       12p/m      12p/m  I      I   4 |   4 I   4 I
IReinforce Basic Health Services in 3      Bp/i M           I       I   4 I   4
Ipilot provinces
I                                        I        I         I       I      I      I
Ilprove criteria for budget and human   I 3p/m      6 6p/m   |     |   4 |   5
Iresources allocations                  I         I
I                                       I         I         I       I      I      I      I
IDecentralize adninistrative decisions   I 4p/m   I 2p/m   I        I   4 |   2
Ito provincial level                    I         I
I                                       I         III                      I             I
|Prepare a Master Plan for MON-MIS      I * |        SP/m       | |      41    4 |
-   -  -    -  -    -  -    -   -      I         I         I       I      I      I      I



MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Summary Accounts by Year
(DH *000)
Base Costs                        Foreign Exchange
1990      1991      1992      1993      Total         %     Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
___________..____
A. CIVIL WORKS                18.454.0  50,165.0  84.670.0  59,091.0   212.380.0   35.0   74,333.0
B. EQUIPMENT                 72.736.0 110,362.0 128,311.0  93,727.0   405,136.0   65.0  263,338.4
C. VEHICLES                   7.154.0  11,272.0  18,032.0  11,146.0    47,604.0   50.0   23,802.0
0. TRAINING AND TA            4.848.0   7,322.0   8,488.0   3,802.0    24.460.0   80.0   19,568.0
E. DRUGS AND SUPPLIES        53,232.0  71,909.0 102,070.0 100,559.0   327,770.0   60.0  196,662.0 0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS          156,424.0 251,030.0 341,571.0 268,325.0 1.017,350.0   56.8  577.703.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_______________
A. OPERATING COSTS          12,063.0  35,518.0  48,131.0  50,327.0   146,039.0   50.0   73,019.5
Total RECURRENT COSTS            12.063.0  35,518.0  48.131.0  50.327.0   146,039.0   50.0   73,019.5
Total BASELINE COSTS             168,487.0 286.548.0 389.702.0 318,652.0 1,163,389.0   55.9  650,722.9
Physical Contingencies         15,400.0  24,736.9  33,732.7  26,642.4   103,512.0   56.5   56,791.9
Price Contingencies            12,394.0  35,353.7 69,335.1 74.824.5   191,907.3   56.9  109,137.4
Total PROJECT COSTS              196,281.0 346,638.6 492,769.8 420,118.9 1,455,808.3   56.1  816,652.2
=S======== ========= ,=,=5==== ==S=====,, ,.=======,==  ,=,=, ,===S======
Taxes                         52,080.9   84,111.1 116,592.9  99,557.8   352,342.7    0.0         0.0
Foreign txchange              115,976.8 196,566.8 271,789.4 232,319.2   816,652.2    0.0         0.0
October 19. 1989  10:49
0
I



MOROCCO
HEALtH SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
S~.mmry Acc0l.ft DV Project Coapoflent
(OH  00
BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
SERVICE                              CONTROL OF                                                                                                        Cont bngem lOR
DELIVERY  MICH. FP &  CONTROL OF    NONCOM          SCHOO0L ANm  ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT   REFEFRRAL           ADMINISTPATIVE  SECTORAL.          
SYSTEM   NUJTRITION4 CON  DISEASFS  DISEASES  UNIV  HEALTH    CONTROL    PROGRAMS  SERVICES                    REFORMNS       REFORMS      Total         %    AmonMt
INIIVESTMIENT COSTS
A  CIVIL WORKS                  99.905 0                                                               8,000 0               96.225 0              19.250 0                 212.380 0  10 0  21.238 0
a  EQUIPMENT                    24.342 0  t9.650 0         137.700 0    16,050 0       20.000 0        15.000 0 0,000 0  i44,324 0                10.870 0   7.200 0    4G5.136 0  0 040.513 6
C  VEHICLES                     26.588 0   2.710 0             860 0       736 0               -        1.200 0  4.750 0    9.600 0-                              160 0      47.604 0  10 0   4.760 4
0  TRAINING AND TA                             Soo0  0       3.691 0        40 0                          620 0  3.846 0    7.073 0                   524 0   7.966 0        24.460 0   5 0   t.223 0
E  DRUGS AND SUPPLIES          160.375 0  72.557 0         83,238 0    2,770 0                -                  8.830 0             -                                      327.770 0  10 0  32.777 0
Total INVESIMSNT COSTS            300.210 0  95.717 0        226.489 0   19.596 0         20.000 0       24,820 0 27.426 0  257.222 0                 30.644 0  15.226 0  1.017.350 0   9 9 100.512 0
It RECUtRRENT COSTS
A  OPERATING COSTS             12.144 0                    5,291 0        342 0                         960 0  6.050 0   120.922 0                              330 0      146.039 0   00          0 0
T018l RECURRENT COSTS               12. 144 0          .        5.291 0       342 0-                         960 0  6.050 0  120.922 0                               330 0    146.039 0   0 0           0 0
Fotal BASELINE COSTS               312,354 0  95.717 0        231,760 0   19.938 0         20.000 0       25.780 0 33.476 0  370.144 0                 30.644 0  15.556 0  1.163.389 0   9 6 100.512 0
PE"yaI,aI Contlt-.oncios         30.021 0   9.531 7          22.464 4    1.957 6         2,000 0         2.451 0  2.550 3   25.368 6                 3.038 2   1.129 3    100.512 0   00              0 0
Price Cont IngeflolO             54.68S 6  i5.339 4          35.655 9    2.990 I         3,299 9         3.434 8  5.721 6   63.755 6                 4.916 4   2.147 7    i91.907 3   7 9  15.183 6
Total PROJECT COSTS                396.960 9 120.648 I         289.900 2   24.885 7        25.298 9        31.665 8 41.747 9  467.268 I                39.598 6  18.833 0  1.455.808 3   7 8 115,695 6
Ta,.es                          10.483.8  'I                84.1                                                                                               T .5    ,8    .5      080I 8.6    .8   .847 1    32327 873.9 
foreign . lchange               207.464 3  73.603 5         182'.890 3   5.833 0       6.460 8        17.376 4 25.378 1  246.050 2                i8.026. 5  13.569 3    816.6.52 2   B 0  65.491 3
OCtober 19. 1989 '10 49
-b
'V
ED



MOROCCO
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Project Components by Year
Totals Including
Totals Including Cont4ngencies        Contingencies
(DH Million)                 (USS Million)
1990  1991  1992  1993  Total    1990 1991 1992 1993 Total
0000  000 aDO  00a ==00   000 C00  000 I00  00000 l  Pa  Z
A. BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
_____________________
SERVICE DELIVERY SYSTEM           38.6  80.6 142.9 134.8  397.0   4.5 9.5 16.8 15.9  46.7
MCH. FP & NUTRITION               24.0  30.3  31.0  35.3   120.6  2.8  3.6  3.7  4.1  14.2
CONTROL OF CON. DISEASES          68.2  76.3  73.0  72.3   289.9  8.0  9.0  8.6  8.5  34.1
CONTROL OF NONCOM. DISEASES        5.4  8.1  6.7   4.7   24.9  0.6  1.0 0.8  0.5   2.9
SCHOOL AND UNIV. HEALTH            3.5  7.3  7.7  6.7   25.3  0.4  0.9  0.9 0.8   3.0
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL             10.5  9.3  7.4   4.5   31.7   1.2  1.1  0.9  0.5   3.7
SUPPORT PROGRAMS                   3.9  8.7  17.2  12.0   41.7  0.5  1.0 2.0  1.4  4.9
_____   -----   -----   -----   -------   ----   ----    ----    ----    -----             o
Sub-Total BASIC HEALTH SERVICES      154.1 220.8 286.0 270.2   931.1  18.1 26.0 33.6 31.8 109.5
B. REFERRAL SERVICES                 33.5 112.0 178.9 142.9  467.3  3.9 13.2 21.0 16.8  55.0
C. ADMINISTRATIVE REFORMS             4.0  7.7  22.1   4.8   38.6  0.5 0.9  2.6 0.6   4.5
D. SECTORAL REFORMS                   4.7  6.2   5 8   2.2    18.8  0.6 0.7  0.7  0.3   2.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                    196.3 346.6 492.8 420.1 1.455.8  23.1 40.8 58.0 49.4 171.3
==0== ==-= C==0= =0=== =======  00= ==== ==== ==== 00=00
------------------------------------------------------------------__---------__-------.---------
October 19. 1989 10:49
OQ
O A
wI '



- 39 -
ANNEX 8
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
imptementation Schedule
. . ... ............ ......................... .......   ......................
|                                       | CY90       CY91       Cr92   | CY93        C CY94   | CY95   |
IBASIC HEALTH SERVICES
| Facility RehabilitationlExtension  I             |
I Equipment/Furniture |
Consultant Assistance                |          jxxx2nt xx                     I          I
Training                             |
IREFERRAL SERVICES
Facility Rehabititation              |          |
I EquipmentUFurniture                   |          |
Consultant Assistance                I   x_vx1roI                              I          I          I
| Training                              |          |
IADMINISTRATIVE REFORN
I Construction/Rehabilitati0n           |         |                               I          I         I
| Equipment/Furniture                   |
Consultant Assistance
Training                             |
Project Completion:         June 30, 1995
Project Closing Date: December 31, 1995



- 40 -
ANNEX 9
HEALTH SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
--- DISBURSEMENTS---
IBRD FISCAL YEAR   QUARTER   QUARTER  CUMULATIVE
FY90            THIRD            0.0      0.0
FOURTH          0.0       0.0
FY91            FIRST            3.0      3.0
SECOND          4.0       7.0
THIRD           5.0      12.0
FOURTH          5.0      17.0
FY92            FIRST            5.0     Z2.0
SECOND          5.0      27.0
THIRD           7.0      34.0
FOURTH          8.0     42.0
FY93            FIRST            8.0     50.1)
SECOND          8.0      58.0
THIRD           7.0      65.0
FOURTH          7.0      72.0
FY94            FIRST            6.0     78.0
SECOND          6.0    84.0
THIRD           5.0      89.0
FOUlRTH         5.0      94.0
FY95            FIRST            4.0     98.0
SECOND          3.0    101.0
THIRD           1.0    102.0
FOURTH          1.0    103.0
FY96            FIRST            0.5    103.5
SECOND          0.5    104.0
01/09/90



- 41 -
ANNEX 10
MOROCCO                        Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
I.    MINISTRY OF HEALTH DOCUMENTS
A.    Basic Health Services
MCH Programs
- Los Bosoins d'Interventions Obstdtricales Pour Accouchement Complique
dans les Provinces de Settat et d'Agadir-Taroudant
- Programme de Surveillance de la Grossesse et Accouchement
- Programe National de la Planification Familiale
- Programme National d'Immunisation
- Programme de Lutte Contre les Maladies de Carence
* Programme de Lutte Contre les Maladies Diarrheiques
Control of Communicable Diseases
- Programme de Surveillance Epid6miologique
- Projet de Restructuration du Programme National de la Lutte Anti-
Tuberculose
- Programme de la Lutte Antipaludique
- Programme de Lutte Contre la Bilharziose
- Programme de Lutte Contre les Maladies Sexuellement Transmissibles
- Programme de Lutte Contre lo SIDA
- Programme de Lutte Contre les Maladies Hydriques
- Programme de Lutte Contre la Ikpre
Control of Non-Communicable Diseases
- Programme de Lutte Contre les Maladies Oculaires
- Programme de Sante Mentale
- Fiche Concernant le Programme Dentaire



- 42 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
School and University Health
Plan d'action du Programme National d'Hygiene Scolaire et
Universitaire
Environmental Control
- Programme d'action Hygiene du Milieu en Milieu Rural
Support Programs
- Programme du Service Central de Radioprotection
- Programme du Servico des Etudes et de l'Information Sanitaire
- Strategie de Decentralisation de la Formation Continue
- Projet Pour La Mise en Place de l'Institut National de Formation et
de Recherche en Administration Sanitaire et Sant6 Publique
- Projet et Plan d'Action du Services des Etudes et du Traitement de
l'Information
- Projet de Programme de Formation pour la Maitrise en Administration
Sanitaire et Santd Publique
B.   Referral Services
- Les Urgences dans le Systeme de la Sante
- Note Relative aux Projets Pour l'Amelioration de l'Accueil dans les
Hopitaux Rdgionaux
- Renouvellement des Equipements Hospitaliers, Techniques et
Biomedicaux
- Inventaire des Equipements Radiologiques
C.   Administrative Reform
- Decret Relatif aux Attributions et a l'Organisation du Ministere de
la Sante Publique
- Bilan le la Gestion Financiere SEGMA de l'Annee 1987
- Seminaire sur les Etablissements Sanitaire Eriges en Service de
l'Etat Geres d'une Maniere Autonome (SEGMA)
- Synthese des Recommandations des Groupes de Travail Financement -
Ressources Humaines



- 43 -
ANNEXE1
Page 3 of 3
- Fiche de Pr6sentation du Projet d'Amelioration de la Gestion des
Ressources Humaines Services Peripheriques
II.   GO  Publications
Orientation Plan for Economic and Social Development, 1988 - 1992, Directorate
of Planning, Ministry of Economic Affairs, attached to the Office of the Prime
Minister
Principaux Resultats de l'Enqu6te Nationale sur La Consommation et les
Depenses des M6nages, 1984-85
Loi de Finances, Ministere des Finances, 1988, 1989
III. Other Reports
Problemei  de la Caisse Nationale de la Securite Sociale du Maroc, Pierre
Mouton, consultant to the World Bank, May 1988
Mission Visant a Proposer des Programmes de Formation des Gestionnaires du
Secteur Sanitaire Marocain, Dr. Daniel Letouze, PhD., December, 1987.
Programme de Cooperation Entre le Royaume du Maroc et le FNUAP, 1987-1991,
January, 1988
Trip Report, World Bank Mission to Morocco, March 27 - April 9, 1989,
James A. Wolff, Jr., M.D., M.P.H.
Projet d'Informatisation de la Gestion du Centre Hospitalier Ibn Sina; Projet
Pilote Pour l'H6pital Avicenne
El6ments d'un Programme de Cr6ation et Mise en Op6ration Service de
Maintenence au Centre Hospitalier Ibn Sina
Analysis of Data from the 1984-85 Household Consumption Survey -Average
Medical Expenditures per Person, and the Variation of average Sanitary and
Medical Expenditures per Person by Sub-region, region, socioeconomic group,
age group, household size, marital status and educational level
Presentations at Seminar sponsored by the Conseil de l'Ordre des MNdecins du
Maroc, "Acces aux Soins", Casablanca, May 20-22, 1988. "Probl4matique de
Gestion et Mode de Financement du Secteur Hospitalier", "Modes de Financement"



ANNEx 11
BASIC DATA - COMPARATIVE INDICATORS (1987)
Life       Adilt   Intant        Total    Rate of   Contraceptive Expenditures an Health   Physiciui   Daity Per Capita
Population    GNP per Capita  Expectancy  Literacy   Hortality    Fertili.y Population Prevailence   as X of Central Gcv't                Calorie Supty
(1985)    (per 1000  rate         Growth                                            (1984)    as X of Required
(in millions) (current USS)  (in years) mte/fetale live births)             1987-2000                       (1985)         (per 1000 pop)       (1985)
.-------------.
NOROCCO         23.3            610           61        45/22         73         4.8       2.4          36                2,9               5,610            108
SENEGAL          7.0            520           48        37/19        128         6.5       3.1          12                 AA               13,450           109
ZIN2A1E          9.0            580           58        81/67         72         5.9       3.0          40                6.2               6.700             84
PHILIPPINES     58.4            590           63        86/85         45         3.9       1.9          44                6.0               6.700           11
EGYPT           50.1            680          61         59/30         85         4.8       2.3          32                2.4                790             127
TLUISIA          7.6           1,180          65        68/41         59         4.1       2.1          41                6.5               2.150            119
TURKEY          52.6           1,210          64        86/62         76         3.8       1.9          50                1.8               1,380            125
ALGERIA         23.1           2,680          63        63/37        129         5.9       3.1           7                 MA               2,330             NA
Sources:   World Development Report, 1989
UNICEF, The State of the World's Children, 1989



