Report No. 1432b-KO                                                                  F E  COPY
Republic of Korea
Appraisal of a Vocational Training Project
June 17, 1977
Education Projects Division
East Asia and Pacific Regional Otfice
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                  Won 485
Won I                 US$0.00206
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY
CVTI        -     Central Vocational Training Institute
KDI         -     Korea Development Institute, (a Government agency
in charge of economic research)
MOE         -     Ministry of Education
MOST        -     Ministry of Science and Technology
OLA         -     Office of Labor Affairs, the agency of the Ministry of
Health and Social Affairs responsible for vocational
training
OSROK       -     Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea, the
agency responsible for Government procurement
RVTC        -     Rural Vocational Training Center
VTI         -     Vocational Training Institute
VTB         -     Vocational Training Bureau
Middle
Schools:        Junior secondary schools (grades 7-9)
High
Schools:        Senior secondary schools (grades 10-12)
Higher
Schools:        Institutions currently offering secondary (grades 10-12)
and post-secondary (grades 13-14) vocational courses in
engineering, agriculture and forestry, fishery and marine,
and medicine and pharmacy education; these schools have
been converted into Junior Vocational Colleges, phasing
out grades 10-12.
Junior
Colltges:       Post-secondary institutions (grades 13-14)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
APPRAISAL REPORT
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
STIThARY AID CONCLUSIONS .........................             .        i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...............................................    I
II. DEVELOPIMET AND M,ANPOW,ER NEEDS.                                           2
Socioeconomic Background.                                           2
Economic Development and MIanpower Requirements.                    3
III.  THIE VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTE1.                                           4
Technical High Schools ................................    5
Vocational Training.                                                5
Sponsored by Central Government Agencies.                     5
Sponsored by Local Government Agencies.                       5
Sponsored by the Private Sector.                              6
Vocational Training Institutes.                                     6
Vocational Training Instructors.                              7
Administration.                                               9
Cost and Financing.                                           9
Government Plans for Vocational Training ....           ..........   10
IV.   TIIE PROJECT ................................................   11
The Project Components ................................   12
Eight Vocational Training Institutes ....            ..............   12
Central Vocational Training Institute ....           .............   13
Technical Assistance ..................................   13
V.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, AND I1IPLEM,ENTATION ....           ............   14
Cost Estinates ........................................   14
Financial Plan ........................................   15
Project Implementation ................................   15
Administration ........................................   16
Sites ......................                                       16
Professional Services ......            ................    16
Procurement ......................    16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Disbursement .........................................       17
Implementation Period . .................. .  ...........    17
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ................................       17
VII.   RECOM4MENDATIONS ........ ..                                       19
APPENDICES
1.   Summary of Previous World Bank Group Education Projects in Korea
2.   The Present and Planned Structure of the Vocational Training
Bureau (VTB)
3.   An Abstract of Recent Vocational Training Legislation
4.   Functional Breakdown of Proposed Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
0.   Comparative Education Indicators
IA. GNP and Employment by Major Sectors,
1965, 1970 and 1975 and Targets for 1981
1B. GNP and Employment by Major Sectors,
1965, 1970 and 1975 and Targets for 1981 (in percent)
2.   Requirements and Supply Estimates for Technical Manpower,
by Major Categories, 1977-81
3.   In-Plant Vocational Training, 1976
4.   VTI System - Present and Planned Size and Structure
5A. CVTI Instructor Trainees - Enrollment and Output
SB. Instructor Stocks and Requirements, 1977-81
5C. Projected Instructor Supply and Demand, 1977-82
6.  VTB Budget Allocations for 1976 and 1977, by Major Type
of Expenditure
7.   Summary of Project Costs
8.   Contingency Allowances
9.   Forecast of Disbursement
10.   Initial Implementation Schedule
11.   Implementation Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Administrative Structure of OLA
2.   Proposed Structure for Vocational Training Bureau in OLA
MAP



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
BASIC DATA
1975
General
2
Area                                                         98,477 km
Population (1975 mid-year estimate)                          35.3 million
Enrollment (including private schools)
Primary school level (grades 1-6)                            5,599,074
As percentage of 6-11 year age group                          104%*
Middle school level (grades 7-9)                             2,026,823
As percentage of 12-14 year age group                         74%*
High school level (grades 10-12)                             1,123,017
As percentage of 15-17 year age group                          55%*
Post-secondary level (grades 13-16)                            297,000
As percentage of 18-21 year age group                           8%*
Public Expenditure on Education and Training
Total Expenditure                                        Won 520 billion
As percentage of GNP                                          5.6%
Ministry of Education expenditure                        Won 212 billion
As percentage of total Government expenditure                16%
*Includes overage students



I



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUMSARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a Vocational Training Project
in the Republic of Korea for which Bank assistance of US$23.0 million equi-
valent is proposed. Three other education projects are being assisted under
Credit 151-KO (1969), Loan 906-KO/Credit 394-KO (1973), and Loan 1096-KO
(1975) amounting to US$14.8 million, US$43.0 million and US$22.5 million,
respectively. The first project, which aimed at qualitative improvements
and selective expansion of education in the fields of industry, commerce,
agriculture, and teacher training at secondary and post-secondary levels,
was completed in 1976; the objectives of the first project were met or
exceeded in both physical and educational terms. The second project contin-
ued to assist the Government economic development policies and emphasized
equipment for science and technology education. The project is now progres-
sing satisfactorily after some initial delays in equipment procurement. The
third project, which extends assistance to fishery and marine education and
vocational training, is also making satisfactory progress.
ii.       Although Korea has few natural resources and a high population
density, it has succeeded in changing from an agrarian society in the early
1960s to a sophisticated industrialized country. This has meant an increas-
ing emphasis on skill-orientation. The accelerated pace of industrial develop-
ment and complex production methods call for a technically more competent
labor force. Therefore, large-scale investments will continue to be required
for education and training. Among the categories of technical manpower
needed (scientists/engineers, technicians, and skilled workers), training
requirements for semi-skilled and skilled workers rank foremost. The esta-
blishment of a sound vocational training system, complementing the indus-
trialization policy, is therefore an essential ingredient of the economic
development process.
iii.      There are three main sources for the supply of semi-skilled and
skilled industrial workers in Korea: (a) technical high schools under the
Ministry of Education (grades 10-12), (b) vocational training centers with
courses ranging in duration according to need, and (c) on-the-job training
in industry. A significant component, even though still comparatively small,
is the network of Vocational Training Institutes (VTIs) under the Office of
Labor Affairs (OLA). At present, 7 VTIs are in operation; another 9 are to
be established before 1980. However, the vocational training system still has
to overcome a shortage of instructors and instructor-trainers. In addition,
the administrative capabilities of the Vocational Training Bureau (under OLA)



- ii -
need to be broadened in view of the increased responsibilities associated with
an expanded VTI system and the implementation of the Basic Law for Vocational
Training. The proposed project is in accordance with the Government's po'licy
of strengthening and expanding the facilities for vocational training through
the establishment of eight additional VTIs within the Fourth Plan Period.
iv.       The proposed project would constitute the second phase of the
Bank's support for Korea's vocational training system and would pursue
the following main objectives of:
(a)  contributing to the supply of technical manpower at skilled
and semi-skilled workers levels needed for the country's
industrial development;
(b)  providing out-of-school youth with a means to acquire skills
that would make them employable in industry;
(c)  strengthening vocational instructor training, and
(d)  giving technical assistance in support of the country's efforts
in the field of in-plant vocational training.
v.        The proposed project would include the following:
Number of Places               Additional
/a            Increase   Output Per
Item                      Existing- New  Total    (W)         Annum
Eight VTIs /c                  6,900   3,600 10,500    53           5,400 /b
Central Vocational
Training Institute (CVTI)       660      90    750    14             50
Technical Assistance
/a   16 VTIs now operating or being established.
/b   Assuming 1-1/2 shift operation (regular courses only).
/c   Numbers rounded to nearest 100.
vi.       The total project cost is estimated at US$56.2 million.  This in-
cludes the cost of staff housing (to be financed by the Government), the
UNDP and bilaterally financed technical assistance, and contingencies. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$29.1 million equivalent, or
52% of total project cost. Implementation is expected to last about four
and a half years. The proposed project would be administered by the OLA
project unit (PIU) established under the Third Education Project. The
Government has informed the Bank that the existing project unit in the OLA
has been strengthened by three additional full-time staff members; this will
enable it to carry out the added responsibilities for implementation and
supervision as a result of the proposed vocational training project.



- iii -
vii.      The OLA has communicated to the Bank the outlines of a plan to
eliminate shortages of VTI instructors and CVTI instructor-trainers. It has
also prepared a staff expansion program to strengthen vocational training
administration of the Office of Labor Affairs (OLA) that would increase the
staff of the Vocational Training Bureau (VTB) by about 30 and the staff in
OLA's provincial branch offices by 110.
viii.     The PIU would work closely with the Office of Supply, Republic of
Korea (OSROK) for the procurement of civil works, furniture, and equipment.
Contracts for civil works and furniture would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding open to Korean and foreign firms following domestic
advertising and local procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Awards of civil
work contracts of US$250,000 or more and of equipment and furniture contracts
of US$100,000 or more would require prior Bank approval. Equipment contracts
of US$100,000 or more would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding. Suitably qualified domestic manufacturers of equipment would
be allowed a margin equivalent to the existing customs duties for competing
imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is lower. Equipment that cannot
reasonably be grouped to form contracts for at least US$100,000 equivalent and
aggregating less than US$3.5 million equivalent could be awarded without prior
Bank approval on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally following
Government procedures acceptable to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items not exceed-
ing US$10,000 in each contract and aggregating less than US$500,000 equivalent
could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations.
ix.       Bank assistance would meet 41% of the estimated total costs.  Dis-
bursements would be made against 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported
equipment; 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; 70%
of the imported equipment locally procured; 25% of expenditures (excluding
staff houses) on civil works, professional services, and furniture; and 100%
of the expenditures on technical assistance (excluding UNDP and bilaterally
financed components).
x.        The proposed project would expand the annual output of VTIs by 53%
and contribute about 6% of the average annual training needs during the Fourth
Five-Year Plan period (1977-81) and would result in an approximately balanced
supply and demand of skilled workers (craftsmen) after project completion.
Improvements in facilities, equipment, instructor training, and particularly
administrative capability would ensure a uniformly high quality of the VTI
system and would enable OLA to cope more effectively with its additional
responsibilities in the field of vocational training, in particular the
monitoring of in-plant training.
xi.       The proposed project forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$23.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea, with a term of 17 years,
including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.



....
I



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
APPRAISAL OF A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report covers the appraisal of a Vocational Training Project
for which a Bank loan of US$23.0 million is proposed. The proposed Vocational
Training Project has been preceded by three World Bank Group education proj-
ects in Korea. The first project, supported by Credit 151-KO of 1969 (US$14.8
million equivalent), was designed to contribute to improvements in the educa-
tional system in accordance with projected manpower requirements (Appendix I).
These improvements included extensions to, and equipping of, 27 technical,
commercial, agricultural, agricultural-technical, and comprehensive high
schools (including three new technical high schools); one post-secondary agri-
cultural and four technical schools; four university departments of education;
and related technical assistance. Project implementation was initially delayed
because of the late arrival of consultants and relative inexperience of project
staff with equipment procurement, but proceeded well later on. The Credit
was closed on September 30, 1976, 21 months after the original date. Both the
Bank's project completion report and the Government's final evaluation have
concluded that the project has met or exceeded its most important objectives
in both physical and educational terms.
1.02      The Second Education Project, supported by Loan 906-KO/Credit 394-KO
of 1973 (US$43 million equivalent), continued to assist the Government in its
economic development policies through an improved alignment of the education
sector to the needs of agriculture, industry, and social development (Appendix
I). The project consists of equipment and extension of buildings for 18 tech-
nical and 14 agricultural high schools and 43 post-secondary institutions in
selected fields where manpower shortages have been identified.  The project
is about 12 months behind schedule because of time-consuming procurement pro-
cedures and under-staffing of the procurement unit in the Office of Supply,
Republic of Korea (OSROK).  Progress on civil works was temporarily slowed
because of a shortage of counterpart funds in 1976; these difficulties have
now been overcome. The project is expected to be completed about one year
after the original Closing Date (December 31, 1977).
1.03      The Third Education Project, supported by Loan 1096-KO of 1975
(US$22.5 million equivalent), is also providing assistance for the Government's
manpower development policies (Appendix I). It comprises two subprojects: one,
under the Ministry of Education, finances facilities and equipment for one new
technical high school, three fisheries high schools, one marine junior college
and one fisheries college; the other, under the Office of Labor Affairs, finances
seven new Vocational Training Institutes, as well as engineering and technical
services for the preparation of future projects. The project is currently six



- 2 -
months behind schedule mainly because of temporary difficulties with counter-
part funds.  These shortages resulted in part from the delay in the Second
Education Project, and the ensuing bunching of financial requirements. Al-
though sufficient counterpart funds for the Office of Labor Affairs subproject
have been provided for 1977, there is a shortfall in domestic funding for the
Ministry of Education subproject for 1977 relative to the appraisal schedule
for physical project implementation. The Government has confirmed that suffi-
cient funds will be made available in 1977 and 1978 for the implementation of
existing education projects.
1.04      The proposed fourth project on vocational training is based on the
recommendations of a Bank project identification mission that visited Korea
in May/June 1976. It was prepared by Government authorities and was appraised
in October 1976 by a Bank mission consisting of R. Harris (vocational training
specialist, Unesco), A.S. Naimie (architect), and H.H. Thias (economist and
mission leader). The project would cost an estimated US$56.2 million equiva-
lent, with a foreign exchange component of US$29.1 million.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND MANPOWER NEEDS
Socioeconomic Background
2.01      Korea's population of approximately 35 million (1975) is growing at
an annual rate of about 1.8%, compared to over 2% in the 1960s. This decrease,
brought about by Government efforts in the field of family planning and the
progressive urbanization of society, will permit an increasing share of edu-
cation budgets to be devoted to the development of post-primary education
levels and to quality improvements throughout the education system, thus
supporting the demands made on the education system by society and the economy.
2.02      Mith few natural resources and a population density exceeding 350
persons/km , Korea has become, by necessity, one of the foremost examples
among developing countries of a skill-oriented economy. Starting in the
early 1960s as a largely agrarian country, Korea passed through the stages
of import substitution and development of export capabilities for consumer
goods (such as clothing), then continued this process to include intermediate
products (e.g., fabrics and electronic products), and is currently expanding
into the export production of capital goods (e.g., machinery and transporta-
tion equipment). The logical continuation of this process will be the emer-
gence, by the 1980s, of an advanced industrialized economy similar in struc-
ture and technological complexity to today's advanced industrial countries.
2.03      This process of growth and restructuring is reflected in sectoral
output and employment figures over the last 10 years (see Annex 1):
(i) The primary sector (agriculture, forestry, and fisheries)
experienced a decline of its share in GNP from 38% in 1965
to about 25% in 1975 and in employment from 59% to 46%.



(ii) The secondary sector (mining and manufacturing) increased
its percentages in GNP and employment from 20% to 30% and
from 10 to 19% respectively.
(iii) The tertiary sector's (social overhead capital and others)
share in GNP grew from 42% to about 45% and in total
employment from 31% to 35%.
2.04      During the period of the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1977-81), the Govern-
ment expects a continuation of these intersectoral shifts, resulting in a
1981 GNP allocation of 20:37:43 among the three major sectors and of 39:25:36
for total employment.
Economic Development and Manpower Requirements
2.05      The accelerated pace of industrial development and the increasing
complexity of production processes call for a labor force with a higher degree
of technical competence at all occupational levels. This in turn will require
continuing large-scale efforts in education and training. Demand and supply
projections for technical manpower have for the past 10 years determined the
general direction for investment decisions in technical education and voca-
tional training. These estimates are periodically updated to take into account
new manpower survey data and the gradual expansion of relevant training capa-
cities. With the exception of a broad long-range plan for the period 1967-86,
the projections do not extend beyond the period of the Fourth Five-Year Plan
(i.e., 1981).
2.06      The estimates are aggregated into three broad categories of tech-
nical manpower: scientists/engineers, technicians, and skilled workers 1/.
They indicate an excess supply of scientists/engineers (resulting in a net
surplus of 6,000, or 5% of the estimated 1981 stock over the five-year period)
and a continuing and increasing deficit of technicians (an aggregate deficit of
8,000 or 6% of the 1981 stock). In view of a possible underestimate of the
supply capacities and of the inevitable margins of error inherent in manpower
projections, it is expected that the aggregate supply of subprofessional and
professional manpower will be roughly in balance with the likely requirements
of the economy (see Annex 2).
2.07      For the category of skilled workers (craftsmen and operatives), the
projections indicate that the period 1977-81 will be characterized by sizable
deficits, totaling over 300,000 (Annex 2) or 20% of the estimated 1981 stock.
This situation justifies a continuation of the Government's reliance on a
variety of vocational training modes to exploit, to the extent possible, the
potential of the formal and non-formal training systems as well as of in-plant
training.
11   In Korea , the term "skilled worker" applies to occupations that would
be classified as "skilled" (craftsmen) or "semi-skilled" (operatives)
elsewhere. Unless otherwise indicated, this report follows the Korean
terminology.



- 4 -
2.08      The urgency of the training needs recommends a combination of
intensive preemployment vocational training courses that could produce the
requisite level of trade competence within an acceptable time (one year for
industrial trades except the most complex), and of large-scale upgrading of
skilled workers through special short-term courses. This upgrading would
preferably be conducted in the plant to take into account the needs of indi-
vidual industrial establishments. The smaller firms would either have to pool
their resources to establish training facilities or rely on the public system
of vocational training.
2.09      Based on present relative training capabilities and expected addi-
tions to them, the Government has allocated the training targets (in terms
of numbers of trainees) as follows: the formal system (under the Ministry
of Education) is to train 30% and non-formal modes (directly or indirectly
under the Office of Labor Affairs) are to train 70%. Of the latter share,
15% has been attributed to the Vocational Training Institutes, and 55% to
in-plant training schemes.
2.10      A recent attempt by staff of the Korea Development Institute (KDI)
to disaggregate demand and supply figures into skilled and semi-skilled
workers appears to shed new light on the question of training deficits for
industrial workers: for the subcategory of craftsmen (skilled workers), the
cumulative deficit for the period 1977-81 amounts to about 20,000, or 2% of
the estimated 1981 stock; the shortfall for operatives (semi-skilled workers)
remains substantial at almost 300,000 or 40% of the 1981 stock (Annex 2).
Although some of the assumptions underlying these estimates (e.g., for the
replacement requirements) may be contested, the results of this exercise imply
that the training deficit for skilled workers could be converted to a situation
of approximate balance through the proposed further investments in vocational
training, whereas the size and diversity of future training tasX-s at the lower
skill levels would call for training arrangements within the private sector,
supported by the Government's system of technical education and vocational
training.
III. THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING SYSTEM
3.01      There are three main sources for the supply of semi-skilled and
skilled industrial workers in Korea: (a) the technical high schools 1/
(under the Ministry of Education), whose students follow a three-year course
(grades 10-12); (b) vocational training centers with a variety of public or
private sponsors and with courses ranging in duration from a few weeks to
two years; and (c) on-the-job training in industry.
1/   Training in industrial trades is carried out in technical high schools,
in some agricultural and in comprehensive high schools. The more general
term "vocational high school" applies to all non-general high schools:
agricultural, technical, commercial, comprehensive, etc.



-5-
Technical High Schools
3.02       Enrollments in the country's 42 public and 30 private technical
high schools account for roughly one-quarter of the 480,000 vocational high
school pupils. The programs encompass 12 trade clusters in 3 broad areas:
mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineering. Curricula contain about
60% theoretical subjects and 40% practical work, resulting in an accumulated
workshop practice of some 1,250 hours over the 3-year course. This means that
the degree of practical proficiency that can be attained is in most cases
slightly below that required for the skilled-worker level and that this skill
gap has to be closed during initial on-the-job training. However, the amount
of theoretical instruction provided means that the graduates may, during their
work life, enjoy a greater degree of occupational flexibility (subsequent
lateral transfers to another skilled worker job) and also the possibility of
occupational growth (subsequent vertical transfers to the level of supervisor
or technician).
3.03      Lack of appropriate equipment has in the past seriously hampered
the proper operation of the technical high schools. In 1968, good quality
(i.e., fully equipped) schools had a total annual output of about 2,000; at
present, the figure is about 7,000. With the upgrading of existing, and
establishment of new, technical high schools under the Bank Group's three
education projects (paras 1.01 - 1.03) and the simultaneous increase in class
size from 40 to 60 students, the annual output of well-trained graduates can
be expected to increase to some 28,000 by 1980. This figure accounts for
slightly more than half of the 52,000 graduates from technical high schools
anticipated by the manpower projections. The Government currently plans to
upgrade the remainder of the technical school system using its own resources.
The tentative allocation in the Fourth Plan for the improvement of vocational
high schools (W 66.4 billion = US$135 million) appears to be broadly consistent
with this aim 1/.
Vocational Training
3.04      Vocational training facilities (other than vocational high schools)
can be grouped in three main categories: those sponsored by Central Govern-
ment agencies, by Local Government agencies, and by the private sector.
3.05      Sponsored by Central Government Agencies.  The Central Govern-
ment subsystem includes a total of 56 centers with about 16,500 trainees
in 1976. The bulk of the training was sponsored by three agencies: the
Ministry of Justice (about 6,500 trainees), the Ministry of Defense (4,000),
and the Office of Labor Affairs (5,000). The remaining trainees were
enrolled in six smaller centers operated by the National Railroads, the
Veterans' Administration, the Office of Monopoly, and the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry.
3.06      Sponsored by Local Government Agencies.  Local (mainly Provin-
cial) Governments operate 15 vocational training facilities with slightly
1/   The bulk of this investment would be allocated to technical schools.



- 6 -
over 3,000 trainees. Of these, the 8 Rural Vocational Training Centers (RVTCs),
established with UNICEF/ILO assistance and enrolling about 500 trainees in
6-month courses, have been especially effective in catering to the manpower
needs of rural areas. The skills taught include farm machinery maintenance
and repair, domestic electricity, basic fitting, automobile repair, radio/
television repair and, for women, knitting and dress-making.
3.07      Sponsored by the Private Sector.  Privately organized vocational
training falls into two broad categories: (a) accredited vocational training
(i.e., recognized by the Office of Labor Affairs (OLA) following specific
qualitative criteria) in nonprofit institutions organized as "Juridical
Bodies" under public law, and (b) in-plant (on-the-job) training. The first
category comprises 34 centers with 111 1/ trades and slightly over 15,000
trainees. The second, in-plant vocational training facilities, includes 396
centers 2/, with 514 trades 1/ and about 39,000 trainees 2/. It is estimated
that about a third of the 1,350 nonagricultural establishments with more than
200 employees that have a vocational training obligation (see para 3.26) at
present have vocational training facilities (assuming that none of these
facilities was operated by smaller firms). Annex 3 gives a breakdown of
in-plant training by groups of trades and type of courses.
Vocational Training Institutes
3.08      The most significant component of vocational training under the
Central Government, even though it is still comparatively small, is the
network of Vocational Training Institutes (VTIs) under the Office of Labor
Affairs (OLA). There are several reasons for this prominence: the close
institutional links between OLA and industry, the foreign sponsoring of
virtually all VTIs 3/ (leading to an influx of a wide range of expatriate
expertise and uniformly high equipment standards), and the concentration on
key industrial trades (currently 18, see Annex 4).
1/   Not 111 different trades but rather separate trade courses; only in the
case of the Vocational Training Institutes (VTIs) and Rural Vocational
Training Centers (RVTCs) is the number of different trades known.
2/   No trade and trainee data available for 15 additional facilities.
3/   The Central Vocational Training Institute (CVTI) received UNDP/ILO
assistance; three VTIs were established through bilateral aid from
Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Japan; five were
financed by ADB, and seven will be built under the Bank's Third
Education Project. One VTI received USAID assistance and private
donations from abroad.



3.09      At present, seven VTIs are in operation.  In 1977, two more
VTIs will open; they will be joined by five VTIs in 1978 and by two VTIs
in 1979 financed under the Bank's Third Education Project. By 1980, OLA
will be operating 16 VTIs with a total of almost 7,000 places and will
be able to train annually more than 10,000 skilled workers in 1-1/2 shift
operation (Annex 4).
3.10      VTIs enroll middle-school (grade 9) leavers in a one-year regular
course. The total program comprises just under 2,000 periods, of which
20% are theoretical subjects and 80% (or about 1,600) are workshop practice.
This compares well with the 1,250 hours of workshop instruction given over
the three-year cQurse of technical high schools (para 3.02). At the end of
the year, the trainees undergo the Class II craftsman test, consisting of a
theoretical exam and a practical skill test (both considered demanding by
international comparison). The pass rates in this trade test at one of the
two VTIs that have been operating for more than one year averaged 90% over
the last three years - twice the national average of 45% for all test appli-
cants. Employment rates for VTI leavers average 95%.
3.11      Besides the regular day course, VTIs organize evening courses that
can be replicas of the day course (the same number of trainees are enrolled
but are spaced over two years) or specific short-term upgrader, refresher,
or adaptation courses for industrial workers (estimated enrollments 500).
3.12      Vocational Training Instructors.  VTI instructors are recruited
among high school leavers (grade 12 completed) and trained in a two-year
course at the Central Vocational Training Institute (CVTI) at Incheon, near
Seoul. The program devotes 1,030 periods to the theoretical aspects of the
trade chosen, 2,400 periods to related workshop practice, and 550 periods to
pedagogy. The CVTI is also conducting short-term training courses for in-
plant vocational instructors. Although there is a continuing demand for this
training, only 20% of the 800 course completers have become in-plant instruc-
tors, mainly because the instructors were trained well before the respective
in-plant training facilities were established.
3.13      VTIs suffer from a shortage of instructors.  Of the 670 graduates
of the CVTI program (between 1971 and 1975), only 60% have become instructors
at the VTIs, the remainder having been drafted into military service (30%)
or recruited at more attractive salaries by industry (10%) (Annex 5A).
3.14      There is a more serious shortage at the CVTI of instructor-trainers,
who are usually recruited among graduates of university engineering departments.
The position and salary of a CVTI instructor-trainer are apparently inferior
to those of alternative job opportunities for those graduates. As a result,
51 (52%) of the budgeted teaching positions in the CVTI were vacant at appraisal
time. These difficulties have occasionally been compounded by the transfer of
CVTI personnel to key positions in newly opening VTIs, a practice that should
be discontinued. The relative shortages of CVTI trainers not only are much
more serious than those of VTI instructors (52% versus 17%) but, because of
the multiplier effect on the supply of the latter, are more damaging for the
whole VTI system.



- 8 -
3.15      These weaknesses require prompt and determined action.  The Govern-
ment has already adopted a measure that could make an important contribution
to solving this problem: the provision of rent-free staff housing for all
VTIs and the CVTI. This policy, which would amount to an increase in real
salaries of up to 100% (depending on the location of the VTI), should reduce
the attrition rate of VTI instructors, i.e., losses after recruitment; however,
this measure may not help to recoup losses that occur on graduation. The
nature of these losses (para 3.13) suggests that a combination of specific
preventive measures and active recruitment efforts may be needed, in addition
to the incentive of staff housing.
3.16      Examples of such measures are as follows:
(i)  Bonding of CVTI graduates for a period of four years
(in analogy to the bonding of VTI graduates; see
para 3.23);
(ii) Considering for enrollment in instructor courses only
persons who have already completed military service
or who are exempted from it;
(iii) Actively recruiting CVTI graduates drafted into the
army when their tours of duty are nearing completion;
(iv) Recruiting experienced workers from industry for a
fixed period (preferably those who have participated
either in VTI instructor courses or in CVTI training
courses for in-plant instructors but who are presently
not teaching (para 3.12); the latter group may have to
be given some additional intensive instruction of short
duration); and
(v)  Hiring, possibly on a part-time basis, experienced in-
dustrial workers to serve as auxiliary instructors under
a VTI instructor.
3.17      Although the effect of any of these measures (including the provi-
sion of staff housing) is difficult to assess, an attempt has been made to
project instructor supply figures, assuming that a combination of bonding,
enrollment after military service and housing provision would result in
reducing (a) post-graduation losses to 10% and (b) the attrition rate of
posted VTI instructors to only 5% per annum. This would lead essentially
to a balance of instructor supply and demand during the period of the Fourth
Plan (1977-81) (Annexes 5B and 5C). By contrast, the unchecked continuation
of instructor losses could lead to temporary deficits of more than 400 in-
structors, making the VTI system partially inoperable.
3.18      In the case of instructor trainer deficits, the options are more
limited, as there is no legal basis for bonding, and the potential instructor-
trainers may already have completed their military service. Apart from de-
sisting from CVTI staff transfer to the VTIls (para 3.14), possible measures
could include:



- 9 -
(i)  Transfering qualified and experienced VTI personnel
to the CVTI;
(ii)  Recruiting, possibly on a part-time basis, qualified
personnel from industry; and
(iii)  Similarly recruiting from institutions of higher
education.
3.19      Administration.  Direct supervision of the VTIs and the CVTI and
indirect supervision (development of curricula and training materials, par-
ticipation in the skill testing process) of other vocational training is
vested in the Vocational Training Bureau (VTB) of OLA (see Appendix II and
Chart 1). This office has 18 professional staff, clearly an inadequate number
given the imminent increase of the VTI system (para 3.09). Furthermore, new
administrative and technical tasks will arise from the implementation of the
Basic Law for Vocational Training (see para 3.26 and Appendix III). Examples
are (a) the establishment of aggregate, sectoral, and occupational training
targets on a year-by-year basis; (b) the review of annual training programs
for the establishments falling under the Law; or (c) the determination of
contributions to the Cost-Sharing Fund for Vocational Training (see Appendix
III). This will require an expansion and strengthening of the Vocational
Training Bureau. OLA has prepared an outline of the future scope and compo-
sition of the VTB, including estimates of necessary staff increments (Appendix
II and Chart 2), and amounting to an increase in VTB's staff of 28 and to an
addition of 110 positions to the provincial branch offices of OLA to deal with
vocational training administration.
3.20      Cost and Financing.  The recurrent VTI expenditures per trainee-
hour amount to W 200 (US$0.40), and per trainee-year to W 400,000 (US$820).
This compares to about W 125 per hour and W 400,000 (the total for the three-
year course), respectively, in a well-equipped technical high school. The
difference is explained by a lower trainee/instructor ratio (9 versus 19), the
higher percentage of workshop practice, and a more expensive (in terms of
consumable materials) trade mix in the VTIs. Because of the different objec-
tives of these two types of institutions (see paras 3.02 and 3.10), there are
obvious limitations to any cost-effectiveness conclusions.
3.21      The total VTB budget amounted to W 7.8 billion (W 2.6 billion recur-
rent) in 1976; the planned total for 1977 is W 11.2 billion (W 3.5 billion
recurrent) (Annex 6). The first figure compares to a total Ministry of
Education budget of W 207 billion (1975), and the figure in parentheses to
W 10.4 billion recurrent expenditure for the country's 30 private vocational
high schools (1975) 1/. These comparisons illustrate, respectively, the small
size of the present VTI system and its high quality standards.
3.22      The VTIs are financed entirely from the Central Government budget.
Trainees do not pay any fees for courses, lodging, and school uniforms and may
receive a subsidized loan to cover the expenses for school meals. This fee
1/   The relevant figure for the public segment is not available.



- 10 -
exemption is in keeping with the equity orientation of the VTIs. The Govern-
ment has set -Up the VTIs with the explicit pturpose of providing an educational
alternative for deserving pupils from low-income families, mostly from rural
areas, who for financial reasons, cannot continue their education. For the
same reason, it provides board for all trainees - a policy which the Bank has
supported in the Third Education Project through the inclusion of 50% of the
VTI boarding facilities.
3,23      Although the Basic Law for Vocational Training provides in princi-
ple for the possibility of charging fees 1/, the Government presently does not
appear to plan the implementation of this clause. However, one article in the
Law constitutes a significant substitute for a financial contribution, namely,
an obligation by the trainee to work in the enterprise assigned to him on
graduation for a period at least twice the length of his training (i.e., two
years for regular trainees). The stabilizing influence of this clause on the
labor market could be considerable.
Government Plans for Vocational Training
3.24      The Government plans to establish 8 more VTIs with 450 places each
in 1978/79. With this addition, the OLA system would comprise 24 VTIs and
the CVTI. This would be an average of two to three VTIs per province (with
the exception of the largely agricultural island of Cheju), i.e., a geographic
coverage that would obviate the need to transfer large numbers of trainees
among provinces and would permit continuous contacts with the majority of
industrial establishments (given that all VTIs will be located in, or close
to, urban agglomerations or industrial estates).
3.25      During the period of the Fourth Plan, the Government also intends
to anchor the VTIs more firmly in their regional economies, by converting them
into vocational training corporations with the status of Juridical Bodies
(Appendix III). This would mean that local industry, through their represent-
atives on the Board of Directors, would become involved in the planning and
implementation of VTI programs - although OLA would retain the right of ulti-
mate control in matters of financing, personnel, training content, and exami-
nations. It would furthermore enable the VTIs to tap additional sources of
revenue, e.g., through consulting services to industry, commissioned training,
and sale of products and would result in a greater flexibility on expenditures,
particularly for staff remuneration. Although it may take time for a newly
established VTI fully to exploit the scope of budgetary autonomy offered by
this change in its legal status, the active involvement of industry in VTI
administration and the increased budgetary flexibility should ultimately lead
to a strengthening of the VTI system.
3.26      Another important development in vocational training will be the
transfer of an increasing share of the training responsibilities to the pri-
vate sector (see Appendix III). Under the Basic Law for Vocational Training,
which has been passed in December, 1976, the Government will enforce a train-
ing obligation that has already been in existence for two years. Firms with
1!   However, the flexibility of the Law in financial matters is apparent
in another provision that allows for the payment of allowances to
trainees (this presumably with the case of the CVTI students in mind).



- 11 -
more than 200 employees will be expected to provide vocational training for
up to 10% of their work force each year. This obligation could either be met
directly, i.e., by establishing an in-plant training scheme (which the Law
would support through a variety of incentives) or by paying a training levy
based on the average training costs of the trades represented in the enterprise.
The setting of annual global, sectoral, and occupational targets by OLA would
permit a timely response to changing labor market conditions.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would constitute the second phase of the Bank's
support for Korea's vocational training system, which started with the OLA
sub-project financed under Loan 1096-KO (Third Education Project) of 1975
(para 1.03). With the proposed project, the network of VTIs would attain a
size and spatial distribution that would make large-scale interprovincial
transfers of trainees unnecessary and that would permit close continuous con-
tacts with most of Korea's major industries (para 3.24).
4.02      The proposed project would pursue the following main objectives:
(i) Contribute to the supply of technical manpower at skilled
and semi-skilled workers levels needed for the country's
industrial development (para 2.06, 2.07, 3.09),
(ii) Provide out-of-school youth with a means to acquire
skills that would make them employable in industry
(para 3.22),
(iii)  Strengthen vocational instructor training, and
(iv) Give technical assistance to the country's efforts in
the field of in-plant vocational training.
4.03      The project items (with their locations shown on the map at the end
of the report) would be as follows:
Number of Places                 Additional
/a                            Output
Item                   Existing-  New  Total Increase (%)  Per Annum
Eight VTIs /c              6,900    3,600 10,500       53           5,400 /b
Central Vocational
Training Institute
(CVTI)                     660        90    750      14              50
Technical Assistance
/a   16 VTIs now operating or being established.
/b   Assuming 1-1/2 shift operation (regular courses only).
/c   Numbers rounded to nearest 100.



- 12 -
4.04      During negotiations, the Government agreed to establish a
performance-monitoring system in all the project institutions that would
collect information on skill attainment and employment status of graduates.
This data collection would parallel the project-monitoring efforts for the
Vocational Training Institutes provided under the Third Education Project.
The information would be used to (a) ascertain whether the project objectives
are being attained and (b) identify weaknesses in the structure or operation
of the project institutions that would need correction.
The Project Components
Eight Vocational Training Institutes (Proposed Outlay: US$38.8 million)
4.05      Korea's long-term process of industrialization and structural change
will continue to require large numbers of skilled and semi-skilled workers
(see paras 2.06 - 2.10). The Vocational Training Institutes constitute a
flexible and efficient mode of industrial skill acquisition. In addition
to the seven VTIs with 2,520 places provided under the Third Education Project,
the proposed project would assist in the construction, furnishing, and
equipping of eight additional VTIs with 450 places each. The project would
include - as does the VTI component of the third project - boarding facili-
ties for about 50% of the trainees (see para 3.22).
4.06      Each VTI would teach five trades that would reflect the local indus-
trial structure and labor market conditions. The proposed project would com-
prise facilities for 8 trades (the number of VTIs with the respective trade
are in parentheses): turning (8), machine fitting (8), welding (8), electrical
fitting (8), plumbing (3), sheet metal work (2), pipe fitting (2), and milling
(1). Since the VTIs would be used in 1-1/2 shifts, the aggregate annual output
from the 8 VTls would be about 5,400. In addition, the institutes could orga-
nize, on request, shorter courses for upgrading and retraining of industrial
workers, depending on demand and available capacity.
4.07      The locations tentatively selected by the Government for the new
VTIs are Naju, Nonsan, Sasang, Weonju, Chungmu (Geoje), Hongseong, Kimcheon,
and Pyeongtaek (Banweol); the first four are planned to be constructed in
1978. The proposed VTIs would be near areas of high industrial concentration
or close to existing or planned national or provincial industrial estates.
The locations have been reviewed by the Bank and are acceptable.
4.08      The eight new VTIs would require about 400 additional instructors
(see Annex 5B). The present deficit of VTI instructors and the continued loss
of CVTI graduates could seriously impair the functioning of the VTI system
in the near future (see paras 3.13 and 3.17). Although the provision of staff
housing for all VTI staff is expected to alleviate this problem (para 3.15),
it may not be sufficient to overcome it completely. The Government agreed
at negotiations that it would establish not later than December 31, 1977 a
plan acceptable to the Bank to eliminate present, and avoid possible future,
shortages of VTI instructors and that it would implement such plan in accord-
ance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank. The Government also agreed that
it would finance from its own resources housing for the teaching staff of the
eight VTIs.



- 13 -
Central Vocational Training Institute (Proposed Outlay: US$1.4 million)
4.09      The proposed investment in the Central Vocational Training Institute
would, besides improving the general quality of instructor training, permit
an expansion of enrollments in the regular two-year course from about 660 to
750 and of the annual output from about 320 to 370 instructors (a 16% increase).
During negotiations, the Government informed the Bank that it plans a temporary
enrollment increase to 850 as part of its measures to ensure an adequate supply
of VTI instructors.  Bank assistance would consist of financing equipment in
the fields of precision measurement, metal finishing, electrical fitting,
machining, sheet metal work, and welding.  This would constitute a direct
support of the VTIs to be established under the Third Education Project and
the proposed vocational training project.
4.10      The current deficit of instructor-trainers has even more serious
implications than the shortage of VTI instructors (para 3.14). The plan for
meeting expected instructor shortages (para 4.08) would also include measures
to compensate for the present deficit and possible future shortages of
instructor-trainers.
Technical Assistance (Proposed Outlay: US$1.9 million)
4.11      A total of about 24 man-years of specialist services and of 22 man-
years of fellowships would be needed to support the other project components
and to provide specific expertise needed for the large-scale introduction
of in-plant vocational training (see Appendix IV). The technical assistance
would be required within the vocational training system as follows:
Item                       Amount of Assistance
VTB                   6 man-years of specialist services
CVTI                  10-1/4 man-years of specialist services
and 2 man-years of fellowships
VTIs                  8 man-years of specialist services and
20 man-years of fellowships
4.12      The Government expects technical assistance for the VTB to be
financed from the proposed loan; for the CVTI from UNDP funds; and for the
VTIs through bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany. The
UNDP technical assistance agreement has already been concluded and the request
for bilateral assistance has been assured priority consideration. The pro-
posed loan would only cover 6 man-years of specialist services for the VTB.



- 14 -
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION
Cost Estimates
5.01      Total estimated project costs, including staff housing and all
technical assistance, are summarized below; details are given in Annex 7.
Won (million)            US$ (thousand)
Project Items               Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Vocational Training
Institutes (8)               9,305   9,500  18,805  194185  19,585  38,770
Central Vocational
Training Institute (1)           80     600      680      160   1,240   1,400
Technical Assistance              185      755     940      385   1,555   1,940
Total Base Cost           9,570  10,855  20,425  19,730  22,380  42,110
Physical Contingencies            915      750   1,665   1,880   1,550   3,430
Price Contingencies             2,700   2,490   5,120   5,560   5,140  10,700
Total Contingencies       3,615   3,240   6,855   7,440   6,690  14,130
Total Project Cost       13,185  14,095  27,280  27,170  29,070  56,240
5.02      Construction cost estimates are based on the recent cost of similar
institutions in Korea and refer to April 1977 prices. The average building
cost per square meter of about US$145 is reasonable and compares well with
construction costs in other East Asian countries (e.g., Malaysia, about
US$142). The estimated unit capital costs per place of about US$7,000 exceed
the unit capital costs for the VTIs under the Third Education Project as
estimated during appraisal (US$5,500) by about 25%. This difference is attri-
butable to price increases in the 2-1/2 years time interval between the two
estimates (more than 20%) and to the inclusion of spare parts and safety
equipment in the proposed project.
5.03      Use factors for classrooms, workshops, and laboratories of the
project institutions are economical at about 80%, based on a 44-hour week.
Estimates of equipment cost are based on equipment lists for the VTIs in the
Third Education Project, prepared by the Korean authorities and revised during
appraisal. Technical assistance cost was estimated on the basis of US$50,000
per man-year for expert services. About 10% of total project base cost would
be allocated for boarding facilities. Standard plans prepared for the VTIs in
the Third Education Project, already approved by the Bank, would be used to
expedite implementation and to control costs.



- 15 -
5.04      Physical contingencies for unforeseen factors amount to 10% for
site development, construction, furniture, and professional services and 7.5%
for equipment (Annex 8). A price contingency of US$10.7 million has been in-
cluded, assuming the following annual rates of price escalation:
Annual Percentages
Item                     1977      1978     1979      1980
Civil works                    9         9         9        8
Equipment
and furniture               7.5       7.5       7.5       7
5.05      Based on a detailed analysis during appraisal, the foreign exchange
component has been estimated as follows: (a) site development, 15%; (b) con-
struction and furniture, 25%; (c) equipment, 90%; (d) professional services,
10%; and (e) specialist services, 80%. These percentages have been derived
(a) by disaggregating civil works and furniture costs into material, labor
overhead, and profit components and (b) by analyzing the equipment awards
made under Credit 151-KO and Loan 906-KO/Credit 394-KO. Including contin-
gencies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$29.1 million, or
about 52% of total project cost.
Financial Plan
5.06      The proposed Bank Loan would finance 79% of the foreign exchange
component, or 41% of the total costs including contingencies. The balance
would be met by the Government (55%) and the UNDP and the Federal Republic of
Germany (4%). The Government has informed the Bank that sufficient counter-
part funds would be made available in 1977 and 1978 for the proposed project
and for the MOE component of the Third Education Project; sufficient funds
have already been made available for the OLA component (para 1.03).
5.07      The incremental recurrent expenditure generated by this project would
amount to about Won 2.1 billion per annum in 1976 prices, slightly over 30%
of the total estimated recurrent VTB budget for 1980. The additional expendi-
tures would not cause budgetary difficulties because the Government assigns
high priority to the development of its vocational training system, of which
the proposed project is an integral part.
Project Implementation
5.08      The project unit established in the Office of Labor Affairs for the
implementation of the OLA component of the Third Education Project would be
responsible for administration, financial control, and liaison with the Bank.
However, it needed to be strengthened to carry out the additional work on
the proposed Vocational Training Project. The Government has informed the Bank
that the project unit has been increased by three additional full-time staff
in accordance with the Bank's proposals.



- 16 -
5.09      Civil works would follow the space standards and equipment lists
established for the VTIs in the Third Education Project. Sketch plans for
major civil works and major components of lists of furniture and equipment
would be reviewed by the Bank before procurement.
Administration
5.10      The imminent growth of the VTI system and the new administrative and
technical tasks of the Vocational Training Bureau, due to the large-scale in-
troduction of in-plant vocational training, make expansion and strengthening
of the VTB mandatory (para 3.19).  The OLA has prepared a staff expansion
program which is being reviewed by all relevant Government agencies.  At nego-
tiations, the Government has agreed to establish such staff expansion program,
acceptable to the Bank, not later than October 31, 1977, and to make it effec-
tive not later than December 31, 1977. It has also agreed thereafter to ex-
change views with the Bank with regard to any proposed future staff increases
required by the VIB.
Sites
5.11      Four out of eight sites for the new VTIs had been tentatively
selected at appraisal time. The Government has agreed at negotiations that
it would acquire sites at least three months before the planned start of
construction.
Professional Services
5.12      Design and supervision of civil works would be the responsibility
of consultant firms that are acceptable to the Bank and selected and commis-
sioned by OLA on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The services
of qualified consultant firms are available in Korea.
Procurement
5.13      The project unit should work closely with the Office of Supply,
Republic of Korea (OSROK) for the procurement of civil works, furniture, and
equipment. Contracts for civil works and furniture would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding following domestic advertising and local proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank. Foreign contractors would be allowed to par-
ticipate, but, judging by the experience of the previous education projects,
are unlikely to do so. Korea's construction industry is large and efficient,
and all civil works in the First, Second, and Third Education Projects have
been awarded to local contractors, even though foreign firms were allowed to
submit bids. Prior Bank approval would be required for all civil works con-
tracts of US$250,000 equivalent or more.
5.14      Equipment contracts of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. In bid comparison, domestic manufacturers would be allowed a pre-
ferential margin of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is the lower,
over the c.i.f. price of competing imports. Equipment purchases that cannot
reasonably be grouped to form contracts for at least US$100,000 equivalent



- 17 -
and aggregating to not more than US$3.5 million equivalent could be awarded
without prior Bank approval on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally following Government procedures satisfactory to the Bank. In addition,
off-the-shelf items, not exceeding US$10,000 in each contract and aggregating
to not more than US$500,000 equivalent could be purchased on the basis of a
minimum of three quotations.
Disbursement
5.15      The proposed loan of US$23.0 million would finance 41% of total
project costs. It would be disbursed in accordance with Schedule I of the
Loan Agreement to meet
(i) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported equipment;
(ii) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
equipment;
(iii)  70% of the cost of the imported and locally procured
equipment;
(iv)  25% of the expenditure on civil works, professional
services, and furniture, excluding that on staff
housing; and
(v) 100% of the total cost of technical assistance, ex-
cluding the UNDP and bilaterally financed components.
The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 9. Withdrawal appli-
cations would be aggregated to the extent feasible in groups of at least
US$50,000 prior to submission to the Bank for reimbursement out of the pro-
ceeds of the proposed loan. Disbursement is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1981.
5.16      Implementation Period.  The proposed project would be implemented
in about four and a half years. Construction and equipment and furniture
procurement should be completed in about three years (Annexes 10 and 11) be-
cause preparations for implementation are in an advanced stage and most
standard designs are already available.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed project would contribute to industrial development in
Korea, particularly to the expansion of heavy and chemical industries, through
the provision of training facilities for skilled workers. By supporting a
flexible and industry-oriented mode of training, it would have a built-in
element of adaptability to changing labor market conditions.



- 18 -
6.02      More specifically, the proposed project would
(i) Increase the annual training capability for skilled
and semi-skilled workers in the VTI system by 5,400
or 53%; this would amount to 6% of the relevant average
annual training needs during the period of the Fourth
Five-Year Plan (1977-81) and would create a situation
of approximate balance between the supply and demand
of skilled workers (craftsmen);
(ii) Expand and improve the Central Vocational Training
Institute to provide an adequate supply of properly
trained instructors to support the growth of the VTI
system; and
(iii) Provide, under the Bank-financed technical assistance
component and in conjunction with the UNDP and bilat-
eral technical assistance, expertise relevant for
establishing a large-scale in-plant vocational train-
ing network (e.g., in-plant training management, job
analysis).
6.03      Since the VTI system constitutes an alternative means of industrial
skill acquisition (and subsequent employment) for deserving middle-school
graduates from low-income families, the proposed project would also support
the Government's aim of promoting social equity. This objective is pursued
through the provision of boarding places mostly for rural trainees, amounting
to 50% of total enrollments.
6.04      The realization of these benefits depends on the fulfillment of two
important conditions, namely:
(i) A sufficient and timely supply of VTI instructors and,
a fortiori, trainers for the future instructors; and
(ii) The development of an adequate and appropriate administra-
tive and technical infrastructure in OLA to cope with both
the expansion of the VTI system and new tasks deriving from
the introduction of in-plant vocational training and related
changes in the administration, funding, and supervision of
vocational training in the private sector.
The Government has agreed that it would take steps to ensure that these
conditions are being met (paras 4.08, 4.10 and 5.10).
6.05      The extension of the tracer system to be established for the VTIs
financed under the Third Education Project to the institutions included in
the proposed Vocational Training Project would ensure a regular feedback of
information on project performance and would permit an early recognition and
correction of weaknesses in project design or operation.



- 19 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At negotiations, the Government agreed to
(i) Establish a performance-monitoring system in the project
institutions (para 4.04);
(ii) Finance from its own resources houses for the teaching
staff in all 8 VTIs (para 4.08);
(iii) establish and implement a plan to eliminate present, and
avoid possible future, shortages of VTI instructors and
CVTI instructor-trainers (paras 4.08 and 4.10);
(iv) establish and implement a staff expansion program for
VTB/OLA (para 5.10); and
(v) Acquire sites for the VTIs at least three months
before the planned start of construction (para 5.11).
7.02      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
to the Government of Korea of US$23.0 million equivalent, with a term of 17
years including a grace period of 3-1/2 years.



I



APPENDIX I
Page 1
SUMMARY OF PREVIOUS WORLD BANK GROUP
EDUCATION PROJECTS IN KOREA
The First Education Project has been completed and the Second and
Third Education Projects are currently being executed. They can be sum-
marized as follows:
Education Project I (Credit 151-KO)
1.        The First Education Project in Korea was signed in 1969 under Credit
151-KO with an estimated total project cost of US$26.8 million, of which
US$14.8 million was financed by the Credit. The principal objective of the
project was the improvement of selected existing schools to enable them to
produce well-trained people suited to the needs of Korea's growing commerce
and industry, as well as some limited expansion in enrollment and output in
key fields.
2.        The project provided urgently needed facilities to assist teaching
agricultural, commercial, scientific and industrial subjects at 32 senior
secondary and post-secondary schools, 1 university agricultural education
department, and 3 university science-teacher training departments. Consultant
architectural services to carry out the school construction program and a team
of specialists to assist in developing agricultural and technical education
were also provided for in the project.
3.        The project was completed in 1976.  Completion was nearly two years
behind the original estimate principally due to the late arrival of consultants
and the inexperience of the project unit in equipment procurement at the ini-
tial stage of implementation. All civil works were completed before the ori-
ginal Closing Date, but equipment procurement was completed about two years
later. Total project cost was US$26.3 million, about 2% below the original
estimate, mainly due to the devaluation of the Won. Disbursement reached
US$14.7 million, or 99% of the Credit. Student enrollments in project schools
and departments totaling 27,800 at the time of appraisal, reached 38,400 on
completion of the project in 1976, about 7% more than the originally projected
figure. The actual output became correspondingly higher. The quality of
training was significantly improved in project institutions. The project
completion mission concluded that the first education project has met or ex-
ceeded its important objectives in both physical and educational terms.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
Education Project II (Loan 906-KO/Credit 394-KO)
1.   Project Description
Total Project Cost (appraisal estimate)        US$70.2 million
Amount of Credit/Loan                          US$23.0/US$20.0 million
Amount Disbursed (6/8/77)                      US$13.2 million
Date of Credit/Loan Agreement                  6/13/73
Closing Date                                   12/31/77
2.   Project Content
Equipment for (a) 14 agricultural high schools, (b) 18 technical
high schools, (c) 10 junior colleges, (d) 10 universities, (e)
1 College of Merchant Marine, (f) 10 junior teacher colleges,
(g) 12 colleges of education, and (h) technical assistance for
staff development in universities and feasibility studies on
management and health education.
3.        Project implementation is about 12 months behind schedule mainly
because of initial delays in equipment procurement. However, all equipment
lists totaling about US$35 million have been approved; contracts of about
US$18 million have been awarded; the remaining equipment is being tendered.
Progress on related civil works (not financed by Bank Group funds) is satis-
factory. The estimated total project cost would be about US$76 million, or
8% higher than the original estimate. Disbursements reached US$13.2 million
in early June 1977, a significant improvement since the end of 1976 (US$8.1
million). The Closing Date (December 31, 1977) is expected to require exten-
sion by about one year because of initial delays.
Education Project III (Loan 1096-KO)
1.   Project Description
Total Project Cost                        US$39.1 million
Amount of Loan                            US$22.5 million
Amount Disbursed (6/8/77)                 US$1.3  million
Date of Loan Agreement                     3/3/75
Closing Date                               6/30/80
2.   Project Content
(i) Ministry of Education
Equipment and expansion of buildings for (a) one mechanical
technical school; (b) three agricultural junior colleges;
(c) one fisheries college and three fisheries high schools;
(d) one marine junior college; and (e) engineering and
technical services for the preparation of future education
projects.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
(ii) Office of Labor Affairs
Equipment and buildings for seven new Vocational Training
Institutes.
3.   (i)  Ministry of Education Project Component
Generally, implementation is on schedule. Progress on civil
works is slightly behind the original estimate because of
temporary shortages of local funds. Progress on equipment
procurement is satisfactory and ahead of schedule. This is
mainly due to the experience gained by the local staff through
the implementation of the two previous education projects.
(ii) Office of Labor Affairs Project Component
Implementation is about six months behind schedule due to
changes in course structure in the project institutions
and relocation of one VTI. Technical assistance arrange-
ments have been made and all experts have arrived.



APPENDIX II
Page 1
THE PRESENT AND PLANNED STRUCTURE
OF THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING BUREAU (VTB)
1.        The Vocational Training Bureau (VTB) is one of seven bureaus consti-
tuting the Office of Labor Affairs (OLA), which in turn forms part of the
Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. Although OLA is not the only Govern-
ment agency with vocational training responsibilities, its occupational
coverage is by far the broadest: Of a total of 543 occupational qualifica-
tion titles at skilled and semi-skilled workers levels, only 12 do not come
under its purview.
2.        The VTB directly manages the CVTI and the national VTIs.  It in-
directly controls the other public vocational training institutions, the
in-plant training centers, and accredited private vocational training insti-
tutions, by virtue of its responsibility for developing learning materials
and supervising skill testing.
3.        This considerable administrative and technical workload is carried
by a comparatively small staff: 15 to 20 professionals together with about
twice that number of support staff. They are grouped in three sections viz:
the Vocational Training Section, the Skill Test Section, and the Technical
Cooperation Section (see Chart 1) each of which has two subsections.
4.        The Vocational Training Section (with the subsections Training Pro-
grams and Training Guidance) is responsible for (a) the registration of all
vocational training institutions, (b) the supervision of their programs, and
(c) technical guidance.
5.        The Skill Test Section (with the subsections Skill Testing and
Manpower Management) evaluates occupational qualifications and establishes
skill standards. It also organizes, in cooperation with the Ministry of
Science and Technology and the Korean Institute for Science and Technology
all skill testing that comes under the jurisdiction of OLA.
6.        The Technical Cooperation Section (with the subsections Interna-
tional Cooperation and Loans) handles all matters pertaining to foreign
capital and technical assistance. Its present prominence derives from the
fact that virtually all existing or planned national VTIs and the CVTI
involve bilateral or multilateral assistance. This section is thus in
effect the physical implementation agent of the VTB.
7.        Although the administrative and technical capabilities of the VTB
are already strained, the increase of the national VTI system over the next
years and the new tasks deriving from the implementation of the Basic Law
for Vocational Training (such as development of annual aggregate training
plans, annual review and approval of individual in-plant training plans,
and determination of allocated shares of the vocational training fund)
would appear to burden the VTB with an unmanageable workload; hence the
need for its expansion and strengthening.



APPENDIX II
Page 2
8.        OLA has prepared a proposal for the strengthening of the VTB that
takes into account the enlargement of existing, and the addition of new
administrative and technical functions. This proposal foresees the expansion
and partial reorientation of the three existing sections and the creation
of two new ones (see Chart 2).
9.        The present Vocational Training Section, renamed the Planning
Section, would consist of four subsections: Planning, Standards, Provision,
and Equipment. The first would estimate training needs and derive projections
of physical and budgetary requirements. The second would develop facilities
and equipment standards and curricula. The third would undertake facilities
planning and implementation and the fourth would prepare equipment specifica-
tions and be responsible for the procurement of local equipment.
10.       The present Skill-Testing Section would be enlarged to comprise
three subsections: Skilled Manpower Management, Skill Test I, and Skill
Test II. The first subsection would carry out development and planning
work in the field of skill testing, the other two would supervise the
actual testing process; their division of labor would be along occupational
lines.
11.       The Technical Cooperation Section would continue its present work;
its three subsections would be Foreign Capital Management, International Co-
operation, and Overseas Training. The first would be in charge of implement-
ing the IBRD and ADB projects; the second would be responsible for bilateral,
UNDP, and technical assistance projects; and the third for fellowships.
12.       Of the two proposed new sections, the Guidance Section would consist
of the Public Vocational Training, In-Plant Vocational TraininX4, and Vocational
Instructor Training subsections. The first would supervise the national VTIs;
the functions of the other two subsections are evident from their names.
13.       The second new section, the Technical Section, would have three
subsections: Textbook Compilation, Training Criteria, and Technical Guidance.
Their responsibility would encompass the public training, in-planting train-
ing, and accredited training segments, respectively, of the vocational
education system.
14.       The OLA proposals imply an addition of 28 regular staff (two of whom
would be senior personnel - section chiefs) and including 6 technical special-
ists for the major trade clusters. This should enable OLA better to cope with
the expansion and diversification of their responsibilities.
15.       To facilitate the multiple contacts with business enterprises all
over the country, OLA is also planning to establish Vocational Training Sections
(with a Vocational Training and a Skill Test sub-section) in each of its
15 major field offices, and a Vocational Training subsection (as part of the
Employment Security section) in each of its 19 minor field offices. In addi-
tion to redeploying part of OLA's field staff, this would imply the creation
of 110 new positions.



APPENDIX III
Page 1
AN ABSTRACT OF RECENT VOCATIONAL TRAINING LEGISLATION
1.        The Basic Law for Vocational Training 1/ (BLVT) has the following
aims:
(i)  To streamline and consolidate in one law the existing vocational
training legislation and to adjust the provisions of the previous
legislation to present labor market conditions;
(ii) To simplify the existing structure of vocational training and to
give greater flexibility to the operation of the National Vocational
Training Institutes by reorganizing them into individual corpora-
tions under public law; and
(iii) To establish a cost-sharing fund for vocational training that
would permit the business enterprises with vocational training
obligations under the BLVT to chose between three possibilities -
(a) to conduct their own in-plant vocational training, (b) to
delegate this training to another vocational training institu-
tion, or (c) to contribute an allotted share to the fund.
2.        The various organizational forms of vocational training will be
grouped in three broad categories:
(i)  "Public vocational training" carried out by the Central Govern-
ment (OLA or other Ministries or Government agencies), Provincial
or Local Governments, or vocational training corporations estab-
lished in accordance with the BLVT;
(ii) "In-service vocational training" (in-plant training) undertaken
by individual business enterprises or groups of enterprises; and
(iii) "Accredited vocational training," to be approved in each individ-
ual case by the Director General of OLA and given by nonprofit
corporations other than the corporations referred to in para
1(ii) above.
3.        Public vocational training institutions, in addition to performing
their direct vocational training tasks, will also give technical assistance
1/   This summary is based on an unofficial translation of the draft Law,
which was passed in December 1976.



APPENDIX III
Page 2
to in-service vocational training and accredited vocational training in-
stitutions located in the same geographic area.
4.        The Government intends to give all national VTIs (whether operational,
under construction, or in the planning stage) the status of vocational train-
ing corporations, i.e., of juridical persons. They will be supervised by a
board of directors consisting of between 9 and 15 directors and 1 or 2 auditors.
They would be determined in accordance with the articles of incorporations for
the individual VTI.  Some of the directors would be board members ex officio,
e.g., the Provincial Governor, the Director of the Provincial Board of Educa-
tion, the mayor of the city where the VTI is located, the Director of the
local OLA office, the Chairman of the local Chamber of Commerce and Industry,
and a representative from a university in the province. Others would be
selected from representatives of the main local industries, the directors of
relevant economic federations or associations, and the chiefs of related
research institutes. The auditor(s) would be appointed by OLA.
5.        Although the BLVT does not specify the responsibilities of the
board, one example of Articles of Incorporation enumerates the following
functions:
(i) Modification of Articles of Incorporation;
(ii) Settlement of accounts;
(iii) Development of vocational training places;
(iv) Staff appointments, including that of the VTI
director; and
(v) Acquisition and sale of property.
6.        OLA would however continue to have a decisive influence on the
activities of the VTI because it would have to approve the annual training
plans, budgets, and audits.
7.        The BLVT gives the VTIs a greater measure of budgetary independence
than they have now, in particular the possibility of creating revenues through
the following activities 1/:
1/   OLA expects that the bulk of the VTI budgets (80%) will continue to be
provided by the Central Government.



APPENDIX III
Page 3
(i) Technical services to industry,
(ii) Production for sale,
(iii) Commissioned training,
(iv) Collection of skill test fees, or
(v) Other revenue projects.
The proceeds from these activities could be used to improve the quality of
vocational training in the VTI or its health and welfare services.
8.        The BLVT confirms and specifies the vocational training obligations
for business enterprises with 200 or more employees established under the pre-
vious legislation. The annual training targets are determined by the Director
General of OLA. They may vary by industry and occupational category but in
the aggregate are not to exceed 10% of a firm's number of full-time employees.
All economic sectors, except agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, are subject
to these provisions, but specific exceptions can be established through
Presidential Decree.
9.        If a firm chooses to meet its training obligations directly [see
para 1(iii) above], it has to submit for OLA's approval annual vocational
training plans that have to meet certain standards previously established
by OLA.
10.       If the firm prefers to delegate the vocational training, it has
to submit an application to OLA, which chooses a suitable training institu-
tion and may not without good reason, decline this referral. The firm will
reimburse, through the Cost-Sharing Fund for vocational training (see para
11 below), the institution for the expenses incurred.
11.       If the firm does not want to take one of the two preceding options,
or if its annual vocational training plan is not approved by OLA, it has to
pay an allotted share into the Cost-Sharing Fund for vocational training. The
size of this contribution is based on actual training costs in the relevant
industry and for the occupations represented in the firm. Payment of this
share entitles the firm to preferential treatment in the distribution of
graduates from public vocational training institutions.
12.       The operation of the fund is determined by the Basic Law for
Vocational Training--Cost-Sharing Fund 1/. The fund will be fed from the
following sources:
1/   See footnote to para 1 above.



APPENDIX III
Page 4
(i) Allocated shares paid by the firms,
(ii) Government subsidies, and
(iii) Income created through the management of the fund.
13.       The fund can be used to meet the following expenditures:
(i) Delegated training (para 10 above);
(ii) Vocational training grants for public vocational training,
in-plant training, or accredited vocational training; and
(iii) Expenditures for activities related to vocational training
or other expenditures deemed necessary for the development
of vocational training, as determined by Presidential Decree.
14.       OLA will prepare an annual fund management plan, in consultation
with the Economic Planning Board and the Ministry of Finance. The Director
General of OLA will appoint an official under his jurisdiction as controller
and other OLA officials as fund receipts and disbursement staff who will
implement this plan.



APPENDIX IV
Functional Breakdown of Proposed Technical Assistance
(Sub-Totals and Totals Underlined)
Dura-   Expected
Sector of   Num-                                    tion    Source of
Assignment  ber   Specialty                          (m/m)   Finance
A.  Experts         CVTI          8                                      122      UNDP
1    Job Analysis                       12
1    MST ./(metal trades)              12
1    MST (electrical trades)            12
1    Training Aids                       6
1    PM. /(physical dimensions)          6
1    PM (electricity/electronics)        6
1    Heat Treatment and Metal           12
Finishing
1    Instructor Training Methods/
Industrial Electronics!
Chief Advisor ./                  56
4/__
VTIs-        4                                       96      FR Germany
1    Machine Fitting 3/5/               24
1    Electrical Fitting -               24
1    Turning/Milling/Mach.Fitting-    24
1    Plumbing/Welding/             3/  24
Sheet Metal Work/Pipe Fitting-
6/
VTB/IPT-/    6                                       72      Bank
1    IPT Management                     12
1    MST (electrical fitting)           12
1    MST (machine fitting               12
1    MST (welding/sheet metal work)   12
1    MST (pipe fitting/plumbing)        12
1    MST (machining)                    12
Total Experts                18                                      290.
B.  Fellowships     CVTI          5                                       24     UNDP
1    Industrial Electricity              6
1    PM (physical dimensions)            3
1    PM (electricity/electronics)        3
2    Heat Treatment and Metal          .12
Finishing
VTI         20    Senior VTI Staff                   240     FR Germany
Total Fellowships            25                                      264
l/  MST=  Modular Skill Training
2/ PM = Precision Measurement
3/ already in position
4/ in Third Education Project and in proposed project
5/ also Chief Advisor and specialist for training levies - may advise VTB on part-
time basis
6/  IPT=  In-plant training



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION 114DICATONS                                                       ANNIX 0
C MAY 60077
........................................ w- 1 ................................................. 0...... . .........................
GNP/       GNP    :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                   I         I           IPRII 1AV.PRI.    I                I        ii[C    I         9
I        ICAPITAI DEVOTEDIPUBLIC I EDUCATION    ILITIR* IPRI, ICOMPLEm ISTUe 1SCM,TEACMjPR0GRt8So,S SEC, 13TUeri                                         I
I        I  AT    t TO EDU,#  9XP. i RECURRENT    CACY                OINROLLITION          oVENTSISALARY IN#ZON RATE 1INNOLLIDENTSSHNNERS
I        INARKETI CRUBLICIDEVOTEDsEXP ALLOCATEDs  RATE $RATIO ORATE FORIPER    IRELAYION IFROM PRI,IRATIO $PER    ItNAOLLS
pnp    PRICESs EXP.    iTO    o               Tol        it% OF   INET          RIf3114j:TEACM1 TO SNP/ :10(y$              I NET   OYCACMv RATZDI
I     Is:                                                             IX    :PY L                                       fCs
YR.MILL       WW I ONLY)  iEDU, IPRI, SEC. MI,JADULTS)                             c c cx   EN    I CAPZTA                       i(X)   stR    IM           I
(1) I 1.  (2) :   C31    : (4)   1            (9)          C61    :CT) :   Ca)                                   (10        :(12)   1(13) 1(14)   1
........................................
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA           73    7*5C 4,4tOE          4,3      9;9      470  29Q   209    99           98.        93         a6         2,0         99        St        19       8,00
CANADA            72   22.SE 6,19oE          I'T    194        so    36    It        96       89         es         24         2,0         99        Be        17       9,00
GERMANY F.REP.72   62.OE 6,26oE              4,2    1,.:2       ;.,  14** 26         99       91         99         33         9-9         99        91        22      tyloocy
JAPAN             71 IO9'?E 4,o?oE           4,1    ao'?       39    38    12        99       99D        99C        asc        ago         99C       94D       20C    aS,00D
NETHERLANDS    ?a   13,9E 9#29CE                     1906    32    4S    19          99        5         95         ag         3,0         97        TS        20      11,00
73    3'Of 4,310E                            39    24    a9       99         9        99         26
NEW ZEALAND                                                                                                                                99        67        19      24,00
NORiNAY           IZ    4.OE 9,86oE          7           2     Ss    93    13        99       99         98         20         1,9         99         76       la      11,00
SWEDEN            73    8,2E 7,24oE          8:9,   1'6:0      36    14    13        99       19         99         IT         P-t         90        as        10      30,00
U.K.              72   59.99 3,990E          6,3    12,7       ?6    39    22        96       99         0-t        26         2to         t - t     63        17      11,00
U.S.A,            Ye 211.9E 6,67of           600    ISO         P..  73** 27         99       99         99         asu       ago          t - 9     93        I*U    29,00
EURUPE
;;;i;                   9.OE 2,090E         2,2    11;J       54Y  29Y   14Y    SeA          VSY                   12Y                    70A       say       43Y    ittoo
IRELAND           72    3,1E 2,32oE         Sol    13,9D    43  AIY   14Y    is              97         994        35                    9SA        is        19       TIOGA
PORrUGAL          72    9.OE 1,63oE                                             .    . . I    9IxY                  t P, 0                 0 - t     6SKY    fit        7,60Y
SPAIN             71  19.1c 2,490E           ;:;B   j;!!A    4;;  ;j;   !;V'   94A            9$A                   3SA                              29A       $0       b'OOA
AFRICA
ALGERIA           is   Is'?       77M        7.5      til      410   32G   186    30          76         62E        42E       6,OG         49E        I?       25       4,00
BENIN             73    3.OE    120E         53    32 0        47    23    to        11       3axe       Too        4OR      21,08         430         To      390      0944cy
8OT8%ANA          74    0.7       29k)      15: o    20"o      38    ao    is        RS       TOX        75         35        Soo          a4         13X      16       olsoy
BURUNDI           74    3.6        90        2 5    19 90    47R  41A   12P    to             2ox        30?        38       IO'o          14          2x      la        too
CAMEROON          73    7.IE    2150E        5:9    20,10      38Y   29Y   lly    P..         74          I.        siloy    1-1           P.,         9       23cy    0,90cy
C.A.R.            TU    117e    210E         A ON  40 0        56    19              ...      64cy       25         69cy    I-q            tt          scy    any    0,07Y
75    4.OE    tOoE        3 0    101                                                                                                                  Dooley
CHAD                                                    IQ     78    22              Is       29xey    so           69BY    Is'Q            a          ZXBY   30
CONGOW            741   1.3       47o        60    19 3        40    32    21        5:?    133X         63         63         6,0         48         33X      22       3,40
EGYPJ             74   36.4       280        Is: 3    vo      29    36    24        4        74X        45         40       '.'           64        39X       as      11,00
ETHIOPIA          73   27.2E    IODF         3.1    20ju       42    29    la         7       ITC        42         sio        3 I f)      63          2       30        0.20
GABON             73    0.5   1,96DE         9 0      0        25      9     It              164XBY    2SC          44C        5.0         14A        ioc      Ric       1,40CY
GHANA             it    9.6E    43t)E        4:1   22 4 ' 46 D It  380   iSQ   23Q    1:.1    56xcy    62           SOCY                   14         lix      WY    0.749Y
IVORY COAST    72    bt4E    46oE           6 3    241T        ZTBY 33BY 13Y          9A      52         STA        46                     0 v I      10       25       1,208Y
KENYA             73   12.9f    200E         (ANN   27 u       63    It    It        40       73         #-I        40         S'Q         14         12       as        1,03BY
LESOTHO           75    Joe       t4oF    te OP   21:0         49    to    20        40       65         so         14 a       T'ON        SI         10       86        ttoo
LIBERIA           TS    los       410        1:                                                          let        31
.:    13'a       17    is,   No       is
IS#       3       32,1      It    24    as        40                   0         63
74    8,6                                                                   Nx                                                     191,     a         '-1"y
MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                                                               too#
MALAwl            74    4,9       ISO        Sol    R*,*        of*   to   2.9    as         96X        60         so         T'o         40          4K      to        o"16CY
MALI              74    5,69       601       4 6N       13     34pq  4its   its    ioc        I&A        24A        49A      14,09         37A         4A      tyk       4116AY
MAURITANIA        70    1.3E    290 r        11:5    P, . 0     .'.   t.. -          ID       tsx        1-0        22                                 3       24        trq
MAURI(JUa         7a    0.9c    484E         3 7         ?DO  71    10        4      aO       86         99         31                                31       30        1,47CY
5     44     47      9      Rb7      34X        21         37                                                  atoo
MOROCCO           74   16.3       340        S:61   I 11 :'                                                                                           13X      El
NICERIA           71  73.0e    32?F          32m               40A   24A   20A                39xcy    0 - 4        34CY       0                       4       20CY    0,37CY
IWANDA            73    4.OE       84E       3 2c    8,00                            23       12                    91         R                       a       is       oo23CY
SENE94L           71    4'9E    330E         41 ON  22.90R   ;SA   42A    S;    to            $ax                   46         1                      llx      as       W ICY
SIERRA LEONE   73    2,9E    190E            3 4    23 4       31    36    3D        IS?      34X        49         32         4,OE        ba         13X      al       01139Y
SOMALIA           7S    3.2       too        3:79   talloo    490   160   190    407          34X        86         35       IQ'Q          60          3       is       0,30
3UDAN             72   IS,2E    230E         4's    13.2       43    29    26        is       so         7S         49        ago          as         It       to       1,23Y
SNAZILANO         75    o's       47o        3:8      -        38    31    19        So       73         71         30        S'S          St        24        22        1,00
TANZANIA          74   14.4t    160E         is: J N   174 0   36    g 9 9 12        63       44X        ..,        49                      7          2       &IC      0,30
TUNISIA           73    S.SE    6110E        63    23,4        37    43    19        Ss       ?2         81         41         6.0         31         14       21       3,00
UGANDA            70   11.2E    240E         5:2N   17,6CR  400   ?20   RS$    ZSA            4exey    0-q          36         I-#         14A         4xcy   El        o,s#gv
UPPER vOLTA    72    S'SE          90E       4 0    2319       65    10       6       5       to         '..        4s       18,0          20          2       23        ovolay
ZAIRE             73   24.1t    ISOE         9 ZCN 21,3C    94C   17C   29C    is             63         36         44A        boo         43          a        4        0096my
ZAMBIA            74    Q'S       -320       9I3    14.2       34    18    16        43       as         80         47         9,0                             2
20        13        22       tooo
cENrRAL ARERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
.................................
COSTA RICA        71    1.9t    840E         5.2    22;7       97    as    le        89       86CY       65         29         3.0         so         azey    as        12,11cy
DOMINICAN REP,72    4.6E    690E             3:0    I3'j9      42    04    22        St       so         17         54         3,00        63         13's    84         7,00
EL SALVADOR    75    Soar    410E            3 6    as a       61       -3   22      608      &SC        ...        39cy       -io         49         ilxc    alcy    4'Svy
GUATEMALA         73    5.3E    qSOE         t.9    t6.0       Ss    23    14        47       64         26         39         s.0         69          a       as        4,09Y
HAITI             72    4'sE    t7cE         0 9      6:6D    61    It        8      206      aR         29?        44         S'o         so          3       as        Itact
HONDURAS          72    W E    34CE          3:9    26 SO    64    IS    Is          52       aix        la         ST         6,0         is         14X      14        3 00
JAMAICA           72    2.OE 1,190E          6,SY   Ig'?       33Y   22Y    TY    86         IQ6XY       P-9        sa         0.0                    3axy    19         4 ?$v
MEXICO            TO   5719C 1,090E          2:6      9%3      54    Z4    12        76       71         3t         44         310         63         19       as        6932cy
NICARAGUA         74    2.OE    670E         2 s      4;;      bt    13    13        S?      fig         21         37         2.0         93         17       84        T'go
TRINIDAD & T, 71    I*IE I#?OOE              5II      6        93    27    le        90       95X        67         39         4,0         is         49       as       1,56AY
3OUTH AMERICA
;;:;;;;           76    S's       319F       5.0    17,91,   I,                      38       lys        290        20         SF                      46      ISD       its
BRAZIL,           TS 10790   l'oto           9:0,   1?;4       42C   20E    37E   64A         86C        9 - 9      27cy       Ito                    a6c      ISCY    6,000
CH16E             T2   IQj49    $30E         4 6    1::6AY  36Y   14y   3by                  ItIXDy    P 2 9        37gy       1.0
COLUMBIA          70   23.1t    SW            I                313 L IS    aQ                                                                         44XDY
ECUADOR                                      4 0    t9                               is        67        20         36         4, 0        90         17       14
72    6,9f    48off       3:7M  aytyC    459Y 420Y IOGY  69                 72         099       so                                to        14       4097BY
GUYANA            74    O'S       13 0 0     9 a    t4,79    47    19    14          83A      92X        39         33
PARAGUAY          74    295       -11 0      t                                                                                 610         19         62X      14        1,00
0     55    13    22        el       82         26         30         I't         65         17       $2       5,00
PERU              71   14,9E    74oE         4:;    141:1D    go    22    is         72       $0         so         390Y       3,0         70         3 0      ISPY   11.00
VENEZUELA         73   11.69 1,960E          4,6    19,9       300   280   390    T?A         at                    33         2,4                    33       fti    let6scy



cgNPARATZVE, SWA0IN  INSEl9 T04   (SONWS                                    AN"Wx  o  PA" 
-  ri           -
( MAY 8,1977
*SUUUOUSUSUUUSU
Bsew"e""     m  aew w _ e" * c X s      0        5_              S        3       2         3      S           S"ow eww  es _ * Z w " " * w * e B w *ow * w  w=    9
I      I BXGNP/     G X ONP  Si TOTALIK  OF PUBLIC          I       I          tS  S   AVR PR    g V                 SlED   I 
S       ICAPITAS DeVOTEDIPUSLIC S EDUCATION    SLITER' I PR0, sCOMPLI. SITUw tSCH,TEACM PROGRES03I #EC, IOTU. I                     a
a       S  AT  I TO EDU,S  EXP, I RECURRENT   SAC?    IENROLLOTION             IOENTYISALARY INIZON RATE sENROLLODfNT8tHIGNfRs
t       iMARKETI (FU1LZCjOEVDT9VIEXP ALL6CAT90I  R4ATg IATIO  iRATE FOR0PER   sRELATION   A"RO  pRi,sSATOl   uPii  BIMIOLiL
I pRtSPL  PRICEII cuF,   I  To   I        T$       its W   I MET  tpRE,S8w~I7EACMO TO SMP/ iTO IC,  I MIT  09ACHR RATSIO
YRSNZLLS,a  CUIS)i Oft      s     IB   PRI, SIC, MI,IASULT61S  (It  og?5L919le il   s CAPA I  t1 I             I        I )  gE I  S) 
(1) Si  CS) I  (3S       I  ()  I        (51      I (6)   I CT)  5  ()   s (9) I  (10)   I   (I)            2112)   (1LS) 2(l1)   '
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTANI   74  1S3       Ito       .-    *-;      39R  23P  16P   10         26X      24       4t      50         78        eX    21       1,00
BANGLADESII    73  76,2E   1o0E       1,2   20,2      *,.  ,,.  ,.,   23         Sb6      ,        4t       ,          ,,,      23X    as       ,.
CHINA(TAIWANS 73  1572   8toE         3,2   14:0    18  41   22    82            98C      94       40      14,0        84       ktC    26    20,Doc
INDIA          71 s59,6t   I40E    2,6VY ,,           ...  .. . ,,   29          79X       ,,      41A      ,,          r       2SX     20AY   4A,0AY
INDUNESIA      74 1367       220G    3,9F  tlOF   69   21   la    605    79X              43       30       2,00       Se2      09X     14      2,00
IRAN           73 t33,IC I,24OE    3,3    ',6    50B  1a8  I2R    50            77        74A      32       5,08       06O      Z4      32      0,3RD?
IRAQ           72  1O0ME I,ttoE       6,I   16t3DR   ,;  ,,   ,,,   26          61CY       ,       22                   . . ,   2XCY  26       6,28CY
JORDAN          73   2.6E   430E    7,0    88    Se2  i5   2t1    59             91X      76       35       5,0        24       50X    22       4,00
KOREA          75  35,3    530        2 9   16,0R  6S   33    2    92D   104X             98       02      3S5         77       5SX    38      T7S
LEBANON        72   35,E 1,070E       3,5   I80,      39   40   10    65         a6       65       I9       2,0        63       28U    as    23,00
MALAYSIA       74  11,7   650         6,4   2s,0    44   31   t1    60C    96t            90       32       4,00D      83       44?     27F    3,00F
OMAN           72   0,7C 1,660E       t,TN   3S0    96    D   p          20      24K      99       33       7,0        ,.       Q 0,4X    9     ,,
PAKISTAN       75  69,0      130E     1,6   16,2    45   25  i1    21            47X      50       se       20.                  lKx    is      6,00
PAFUA N,C,    75   2,6    410         S,6   16,1    38   16   24    32           57t      73P      3S      II,0        90       l2X?   24       0,90?
PHILIPPINES   74  4t,4E   330E    2,5   t4,9    73   15   12    87              104X      ,,,      34      15,0        ,.,      46X     , I     l,00
SINGAPORE      72   2,2E 2,240E       3,1   16,2    44   31   1S    75A    96Y            72A      33       t,,        99A      S7Y    24       8,25?
SYRIA          75   7,4    660        3,6   6,9       39   25   26    S3         89       70       35       2,0        92       45      21     12,00
THAILAND       73  40,7E   3ioE    4,ONF 2077 NFS    9   t9              2       57X      932      32       3.C U       IC      21K     24      2,00
TURKEY         72  37,9D    60OD      ,,,    131000  ,,;  ,.,  ,,,   ,,, OIOXCY   ,.,              54DY     ,,         ,        22XY   270Y   5,315Y
YEMEN          73   6,4E   t80E        ,5    420    49P  2iP  a3?   to 1         1X       1o       36       5,0        75        aX    19       0,0SfY
YEMEN P,D,R,  72   1,6E   22nE    2,3A  12,6    79   12                  t 1O   7OX       St       29      10t,        99       l2X    20       0,05AY
,,,,,  ,,,_,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_,,,__. ................................-----------------...   ,0--- _v I---- I ---             ---   .....-....................................................... -
SUMMOAR fOR DEVEL!1PING COUNTRIESt
NUM8ER OF COUNTRIESI                  i5    73       70   69   69    71        89        55       78         Y3       5S       79      iS       70
...... .. ....., _....
RANGES                             (0,.  ( 3,8-  t(25  (0.  (0C   (5.    (10.         (17-     (19"      11,5      (7.      t74.   (9.      (.01.
12,i,? I  32,3)  96 3 52)  40)   98)        184X)   99 3    65 3         25,o0    991       75,0)  03)    23,0I
QUARTILESIQP9ER S                   5,2   22,1      55   31   22    ?5        87        7S       46         a       so        29      28      6,0
MEDIAN1                  40   tR1Ro    48   23   IS    50          71       50        38         5       63        16      a3      2,00
LUwEN S                  3,0   13,9    38   16   12    21          S2       30       33          3       as         9      20       ,9
SYMGOLSt,,,...... DATUR UNAVAILASLE          0.1970 OR BEFORE MIC......                    --8URRENT PRICES      BOURCES-
M MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8.1971                          NSODP                                    .
I  QUESTIONABLE                    Cmt972                     P-INCLUDINS FOREIGN AID                   COLUMNSit AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*  INCLUDES PART.TIME STUDENTS Dul973                         GdCENTRAL GOVT, ONLY                                        OR I5RO  IS3IONS
**  CUMBINED WITH PRIMARY           2S1914                     REMXN13TRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 TO 14 1DRD MISSIONS
F'1975                     3NMOE AND STATE GOVT, ONLY                                  AND/OR UNESCO
0.1976                     TEEXCLUDING CeNTRAL GOVT,                                   STATI8TZCAL
UBPUALIe ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
V-INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XKINCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
YRUNESCO SOURCES
.                                                                                 .........................................................
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USeFUL IN The EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS Of RILATIVE STASGS OF KOUCATIONA6
DEYCLOFMeNT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNThRIS, T     SJOEXER,OMTN TE  SAS oP TWlE PRESENT SATAeROPSSNATIONAL COMPAR500I SHOULD St APPROACH S WIT
CIBAT CAUTION, DATA PRESENTED IN TIN      AOVE TAL E HAWE B1EN COLLEtCTED LARSELY NY thE SANK MSOSIONS  ROM SOYIMIMEN?T SOURCESo THE
RMgAINDER ARg ITAFF ESTIMATIS OR DATA FROMt UN1SCO   WFORTS NAVE SELN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WTTITNN LENtIS  TO CH9CK TNE
ACCURACY Of TNE DATA, NIVERTMELCEStSUCM DATA ARC YTILL IMPEgRfCT IN SEVERtAL1 RESPECTS AND THE SANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE THEM
PROIRIESSVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORX, IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MINDS
(1)REDUCATION* AS DEFINED IN THE TABLe INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALS
W2)'PRIMARY EDUCATInN REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (9,6, GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATEB'CCOL,6) ARe OFTEN OBTAINED PROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND IT Is
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF RLITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
(4)'PUSLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION'tCOLS,34 AND 5S REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASISPUBLIC AGENCIES
(5"ENROLLMENT RATIOSNICOLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED PULLoTIMt
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES [IWING TO VARIATION IN TME ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I E, AEOE$FECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FI:URES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL, OVERACED STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED  BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,



ANNEX lA
GNP AND EMPLOYMENT BY MAJOR SECTORS,
1965, 1970 AND 1975, AND TARGETS FOR 1981
GNP (W Billion)           Employment (Million)
1965   1970   1975   1981   1965   1970   1975   1981
Agric., For., Fisheries         309    724  2,303  2,942    4.8    4.9    5.4    5.6
Mining, Manufacturing           159    591  2,697  5,643    0.8    1.4    2.3    3.5
Soc.,  and Other Sectors        337  1,274  4,080  6,457    2.5    3.4    4.1    5.1
Totals                     805  2,589  9,080 15,042    8.2    9.7   11.8   14.2
a/ SOC = Social Overhead Capital
Note:  1981 GNP estimates in 1975 prices.
ANNEX 1B
GNP AND EMPLOYMENT BY MAJOR SECTORS,
1965, 1970 AND 1975, AND TARGETS FOR 1981
(IN PER CENT)
GNP                      Employment
1965   1970   1975   1981   1965   1970   1975   1981
Agric., For., Fisheries        38.4   28.0   25.4   19.6   58.6   50.5   45.9   39.3
Mining, Manufacturing          19.8   22.8   29.7   37.5   10.4   14.3   19.1   24.6
Soc., and Other Sectors        41.8   49.2   44.9   42.9   31.0   35.2   35.0   36.1
Totals                   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Note:  Differences in totals due to rounding.
Source: Economic Planning Board



ANNEX 2
REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY ESTIMATES
FOR TECHNICAL MANPOWER, BY MAJOR
CATEGORIES, 1977-81 (IN THOUSAND)
Requirements      Supply      Surplus (+)/Deficit (-)
Scientists/Engineers            54             60                  +6
Technicians                     65             57                  -8
Skilled Workers                843            529                -314
("Craftsmen")              (469)           (449)               (-20)
("Operatives")              (374)           (80)              (-294)
Note: Estimates are limited to requirements of heavy and chemical industries,
and to relevant sources of supply.
Source: Ministry of Science and Technology, Korean Development Institute and
Mission estimates



ANNEX 3
KOREA   VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
IN-PLANT VOCATIONAL TRAINING, 1976-/
Adaptation  Upgrading  Refresher
Course   Total  Basic     Training    Training   Training
Training Fields                        TraininK  Courses      Courses    Courses
;   _   Total     31,024   14,330      15,648       501        545
Metal materials &
manufacturing trades        1,302       694         608         -          -
Metal Cutting                   2,897    1,712         928        27        280
Transportation & Storage        1,289      983         227        79
Electrical trades               2,643      879       1,764         -          -
Electronics & telecommu-
nication trades             3,202    1,421        1,781        -           -
Textile trades                12,592   56,499        5,591      187         315
Construction trades                 -        -           -         -          -
Chemical industry
trades                      2,236       395      1,706       135           _
Wood working trades             1,060      272         788         -          _
Ceramic industry
trades                         333        70         263        -           _
Printing                           83       59          24         -          _
Mining                            849      519         257        73          _
Handicraft                          _        _           _         _
Food Processing trades          1,494      574         920         -          _
Leather working trades            476      141         335         _          -
Painting                           46       46           -         _          -
Others                            522       66         456         -          _
11  Data are limited to 365 (out of a total of 411) firms conducting in-plant
training
Source: Office of Labor Affairs



KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
VTI SYSTEM - PRESENT AND PLA/iNED SIZE AND STRUCTURE
TRADES   AND   ENROLLMENTS
Date                                                                                                 Textile                   Off-                                     Indus.   Tool
.INSTITUTION/  Started/ Funding   Foun-  Pattern  Lathe               Mach ine            Sheet  Elec.    Elec.    MachinLe  Metal   Wood  set         Pipe      Plum-         Radio   1ec4    & Die  Wood
IzKIQ-&Z       Planned  Source    dry    Ma2k1s        -   Milling  Fitting  Welding  Metal Zjttine  toRnics  Fitting  Plat ing _NC   Print,  Fiitting b_hne   Auto  & TV   tronica.   in  Arts  TOTA
Daegu           1975     ADB         x I                x                x         x       x        x         x        x                                                                                        570
Chung6on        1975                 CC       C         CC               a         a       a        a         a                  x57
Inchon          1976                 x        x        x                 x         x       x        xCC                x                   x     x                                                              690
Rwang Ju        1976                 x        x         x                x         x       x        x         x                                                                                                 390
Sung Nam        1977       ..x                                 x         x                                                                                                                                      630
Daejon          1977     Japan                          x                x         x                x         x                  x                                                                              480
Changwon        1977     Belgium                     160                 80               120                                                                                                    4              400
Busan           1972     F.R,Germ,                     60                60       60                60                                                                                           90,            330
Cheong Ju      1978      IBRD                         90                90       90                 90                                                                                                         36o
J1 3naun   19 78  IBRD ..990                             90       90
Jxiju chon     19 - 7     ..                          90   0            90       90                990360
Jinju           1979                                   90      90        90                         90                                                                                                          360
Ulsan g Sung90                                                 90        90       90        9        00
Ol19an                                               90                90                         90                                                    90                                                    360
GSoonchon                                              90                90       90                                                                              90                                            360
Pohang                                                 90                90       90                                                                              90                                            360
S. Sang         1979     IBRD                          90      90        90       90                90                                                                                                          45o
Hong Sung                                              90                90       90        90      90                                                                                                          450
nokpo            97 90                                                   90       90                90                                                    90                              250
Banmol          1980        "90                                          90       90                90                                                    90                                                    450
Kunsan                      *'90                                         90       90                90                                                            90                                            450
GenJae                                                 90                90       90                90                                                    90                                                    450
Wonju             "                                    90                90       90                90                                                            90                                            450
Kangneung                   "90                                          90       90        90      90                                                                                                          450
Chungsoo        1973    ROK/Pri-                       50      25        25       50                                                                                       2       5      2                      7
vate
TOTAL VTIs                                                                                                                                                                                                   .1455
MACHINING
CVTI Seoul      1968     ROK/UNDP  62         42          58             52       69        52      62       57                                           48                52            57     51              66
Source: Office of Labor Affairs and Mission estimates
Note:  x denotes unavailability of enrollmeut data by trade
1/  2-year course
2/ 3-year course
3/  not including courses in embroidery (60 trainees)



KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
C.V.T.I. - INSTRUCTOR TRAINEES - ENROLLMENT AND OUTPUT
1/                             Supply
Total                  Graduates                Total for
Enroll-         To Military  To Private   To    Trades
ment    Total    Service    Industry    VTIs  Excluded   Net Available
Year                         No.  %      No.  %                         (1)   -   (5)
(1)        (2)         (3)       (4)      (5)          (6)
Actual    1972        n.a.      67      -   -        3   5       64
1973       n.a.     151     22  15        6   4      123
1974       n.a.     114     55  48        6   5       53
1975       n.a.     176     85  48       22   8       69
1976       662      160     35  22       28  18       97
Projected 1977        680      270                                       88            182
1978       700      380                                      125            255
1979       725      343                                       59            284
1980       750      343                                       59            284
1981       750      368                                       59            309
1982       750      368                                       59            309
if  Aasumptions:
(a) New graduates bonded and exempt from military service
(b)  Excludes trades not represented in IBRD project
(c)  Nominal loss 2% over course
Source: Office of Labor Affairs and Mission estimates



KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
INSTRUCTOR STOCKS AND REQUIREMENTS, 1977-81
Date                                                  .      
INSTITUTION/    Started/   Funding        Chief-        Authorized Posts             Instructors Reiuired _d
LOCATION         Planned    Source        Instr.   Total   Filled   Vacant   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Daegu             1975       ADB              9        63        57       6
Chunchon          1975        it              9        56        37      19
Inchon            1976                       10        76        67       9
Kwangju           1976                        8        43        38       5
Sungnam           1977                        3        73                         73
Daejon            1977       Japan            6        54                         54
Changwon          1977       Belgium          4        27                         27
Busan             1972       F.R.Germany      5        40        38        2
Cheongju          1978      IBRD              4       40                                 40
Junju             1978                        4        40                                 40
Jinju             1979                        4        40                                         40
Ulsan             1979                        4        40                                         40
Gumi              1978                        4        40                                 40
Soonchon          1978                        4        40                                 40
Pohang            1978                        4        40                                 40
Kimhae            1979       IBRD             5        50                                         50
Naju              1979        .               5        50                                         50
Nonsan            1979                        5        50                                         50
Weonju            1979                        5        50                                         50
Chungmu           1980                        5        50                                                50
Hongseong         1980                        5        50                                                50
Kimcheon          1980                        5        50                                                50
Pyeongtaek        1980                        5        50                                                50
Chungsoo          1973       ROK/PRV          8        31        27       4
TOTALS                                      130    1,143        264      45      154    200    280    200
CVTI Seoul        1968       ROK/UIIDP                 98        47      51        3       3       3      3
1/ One per trade
Source: Office of Labor Affairs and Mission estimates



ANNEX 5C
KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROJECTED INSTRUCTOR SUPPLY AND DEMAND, 1977-82
Estimated Total Supply and Stock
Output          1976 1/  1977      1978      1979     1980      1981      1982
Present Stock   264-/    238        214       193      173       156       140
February 1977             1822/    173        164      156       148       141
1978                      2551'    242        230      219       208
1979                                2841/    270       256       244
1980                                          2841/    270       256
1981                                                   3093/    294
1982                                                             3092/
Total Supply    264       420       642       883    1,113    1,358    1,592
Total Demand4/  309       463       663       889    1,143    1,143    1,143
Shortfall        -45      -43       -21        -6      -30      +215      +449
Assumptions
(a) future VTI enrollments as in Annex 3C; no further increase after 1980
(b) stable attrition rate of 5% per annum for bonded instructors
1/  actual figures
2/  from Annex 5B
3/  from Annex 5A, col. 6
4/  sum of relevant annual instructor requirements figure, in Annex 3B and of
"Shortfall"and Present Stock" figures from previous year
Source: Mission estimates



ANNEX 6
VOCATIONAL TRAINING BUREAU (VTB)
BUDGET ALLOCATIONS FOR 1976 AND 1977,
BY MAJOR TYPE OF EXPENDITURE (W MILL.)
1976        1977
Salaries and Allowances                                   923         1,391
Workshop Materials and Fuel                                518          585
Utilities and Other Services                              500           399
Office Supplies and Instructional Materials               120           121
Maintenance                                                 22           32
Subsidies and Other Transfers                             492           960
Other Recurrent Expenditure                                53            54
Total Recurrent Expenditure                        2,628         3,542
Land Purchases                                            122
Civil Works and Professional Fees                       3,872         3,745
Equipment                                               1,085         3,611
Debt Service                                              105           336
Total Capital Expenditure                          5,184         7,692
Grand Total                                        7,812        11,234
Source: OLA



KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT                                                                       IBRD/IDA Ed ...tioc ftoj..to
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS                                                                            A--.t'ApiIF-1-
OS.                                          ESTISSATIS   COSTS   IS  M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ILLION  OF Wn (19 7....  P R TC ES)                                          S T.  T OT AL   CO0S TS.
PROJECCT______                                 BUILDINGSS        _________    FURNITLIRE _____ _____EQUIPMENT  _____                             TOTAL        PSOFIESSISNAL   TECH-   million       L. 0       o
~~  NO.  ITEM              SOVOOOP~~.It.  Acadmic.            Staff                 Acadmi             1           'oeI   PHYSICAL                                   SERvICES    NICAL        Of           of 
ITEM                                                                                                    =7%t d,S,   Sodo  EoSa ToO  dSo    ordo  oal Aoo        BoardiNg  T.ta1  FACILITIES   Cct.ASSIST-  Ron  usa-
-   _________________________  ~~C-aS_____                                    CornO.                          Iooooal(oe.Fo.F                                Ar.h.          ANCS
VIO11   Hongseong                    135        525         155    ____           680 _        60        20          80        755 _      20        -775   _1 670           50                       - .4 . 2Dl    3~ 55 -
~~ 1110  t~~hungsw  (Genie)  135 ~~~525           155                -680            60        20          80        765        20         785      1,680_        50      -        -      1,730          3,565
X1 imctlen                      135        525         155                  680           60       20           80       765        20         785       1,680        50       -       -       1,7303,6                 1
V1o   Ssn                          135        525         155                  680       _60          20           80     1,3          20       1,350       2,2          502-2                    295            4,3_
V110  Naju     ________            135        525         155                   680          60        20          80       765        20         785       1,680        50       -1,730                         3,565
VIO  Nonsan                        135        525         155                   680          60        20          80       755        20         775    1__ 67_0        50      _-        -                    3_550
V10  Pyeongtaek  (Banweol)    135             525         155                   680          60        20          80       765        20         785       160          50   --           -      1,30           3  6
v10  Wyeonju                       135        525         155                   680          60        20          80       755        20         775         .~9        50       -        -      1,720          3,550
Sub-total          L,080      4,200       1,240                 5,440         480       160         640                  16      _             3~7          ___                     14___ 375_     29~640
~  Cental Voational
__ __ __ __VTI__ _             _ __     _ ___ _                    __                                                      70                   670_        670                                   670         1,380
Technical Assi stance                                                                                    ____                                                                              ____
Specialists                                                                                                            -~--                                                 -     145  H      145            300
-,  TOtAL EASE CAST  n   -0"1,080  4_,200           1,240                 5,440          480      160_         64_732              _10--         8      14,645__    400               145     15 190
to              Won~   ____                                            ________   ______2,260               64067,325            160       7,485
a   ( ENolOdiof )  IUS$    _5 ,3          ,6                    ___    120               90       330       1_32 1O    5 10_0      30       1 40        30 200        82
~C,SCSS5RNOCOO ~ FOFE-Ch.  %                                            25 _ __ __ _25___ _                          __9_ _                 _07_ __ _              107            __ __
6COOTINOERCIES        % B... Coot  35.2%                                      35-2%                                                                2 9%     ____         32.57,            3 37.                    3 2%
Won          380_920__                                                                     220__    __2,170                            4,690       130               5        ,7
06                      lOS   .--                          ________  _______78                    ___9_  __460                              4,8          ,8          6       __     100                     10 040_
Fohlel. %____
o  TOTAL. P10.51CC COST    ____  OIl  1,460                                     7,360__                                                            9,55        1935_3015                              0,6
a (ToSO.CootiefeacSos)  US$    10S  3 00               ______5,                            -          _          ____1,90                                    3,80        108               0                   -4   6
I.E  TOTAL FOR. EKES.   7. Total Coat   15%                                       25%--                            ___                               9%          5.           i~.80    _                    __         57
*C-r-ony Eovo-iot:  80.01.0                                                                          Sheot    o  _  hos
Source:  Mission estimates
1/  Excluding the cost of staff housing (to be financed by the Government) and the UNDP and bilaterally financed technical assistance.                                                                      6/9/77



BRED/IDA Ed.cati-c P.oJ-tce
Architect. Ap9cais.1 Por III
KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES 1
(E.ttooteo I. '000 of US Dol1a-)
SITS DEVEL PHE         BUILDINGS             FURNITUJRE           EQUIPMENT                 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   TOTAL 
t   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACHO'NSULTANTS   IEXPAT. SPECIALISTS                                                                    STAFF DEVELOPMENTR
Local  RF-IR  Total  Loa  For.  g  TtI    Local F-igH  Total Loc.o-I       e   oa   Local Fo-etEl  Total Lo..al jfoceil  Tot.l  LocaI oc-igo TotalLca1OrE8  TotalLclP1e                     oa
B... coat Eanti.t (_/19L7)
TOto    85  15    100  75   _ 25  100 ~~99    33   1320         1389  15430                                                 60_40 30
L.C.1F-ig.B-kd-  1895   335  2230  8410  2810  1122090 30120                      1540  180 14          740     80   820                             0    2030                                13635 17685 3132C
Loc~al & F-cig.  T.t.____                    .75     25. 7                 25a  100      10      90   100   90        10   100                           20     80    100                          43.5  56.5   101
Phy.ils Cootiroeoy
.0    Zf B...loet            10     10     10 I10         10      10   10      10     10   7.5       7.5    7.5   10 I10         10                           10     10     10                           9.7    8.C   8.8
-I A-too                    190     30   20 840   280   1120   95              35-  130   10       1040  116    70  -10          80  __                        5     25   _30_                          1320  1420C 7
C-taH  Coo ... PyoS        2085    365  2450_ 9250  31090  12340 1085   365  1450  1660  14930 16590  810                 90   9-00-                          65    265   330                          14955 19105 34060
Eopoc-d Price To--c-a-
00      Boo + PhyoloaS Coctig.  23   23     23     23_   2 3       2 3   2 3    23     23     20 ._20         20   20      20     20                           20     20     20                          21.1  20.7I  21.!
a  A-..t              475~Au   85   560  2130   710   2840  245           85   330    330   2990  3320  160          20   180                            15     55     70                          3355  3945  730C
.00ToteS Saottoigy All . ..c...
A-tOO                   6_65    115  7180  2970   990   3960  30   120   460   450   4030  4480  230                    30   260 __                         20     80    100                          4675  536   1004
LmAl & F-cogo ci Totol   8      15  -100    75  2--5         100   75      25   100      10       9     100   90      10   100                            20     80    100                          46 553 5 IO
OTotal Rot, Project Cost
0    Qioladio  Ccoccgeocoo) 260   450  3010   1 380380180  1330   450  1780  1990  17920 19910  970    1 10  100                                          0    320    400D                        1831C 230      416       &
*-  1-1oal                   85F-ig. fT.t.]75 75    25                  7      25    10       10-    90i ___       90           100                           20180        10                           44.   5.        1  
Source: Mission estimates
1/ Excluding the cost of staff housing (to be financed by the Government) and the UNDP and bilaterally financed technical assistance,



ANNEX 9
KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
FORECAST OF DISBURSEMENT
*              Disbursement                 Undisbursed
Implementationsa       Semesterly         Cumulative          Balance
Semester          '000 US$    %      '000 US$    %      '000 US$    %
1                   -     -            -     -       23,000  100.0
2                 100    0.4         100    0.4      22,900   99.6
3              1,200    5.2       1,300    5.6       21,700   94.4
4              2,200    9.6        3,500   15.2      19,500   84.8
5              3,000   13.0        6,500   28.2      16,500   71.8
6              5,000   21.8      11,500   50.0       11,500   50.0
7              6,000   26.1      17,500   76.1        5,500   23.9
8              3,500   15.2       21,000   91.3       2,000    8.7
9              2,000    8.7       23,000  100.0           0       0
10
a' From estimated date of loan effectiveness
Source: Mission estimates



ANNEX 10
KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Responsible               1977                        1978
Main Activities                                  Authorities    J F M A M i J A S 0 N D  J F MA M J JA S ON D
A.    c                           (VTB)
Management
1. Preparation of staff development plan            OLA                  X X X
2. Approval of staff development plan               EPB/MOGA                    X
3, Submission for Bank review                       OLA/EPB/Bank                  X
4. Selection of staff for 1977                      OLA                             X X X
5. Appointment of staff for 1977                    OLA/GAO                              X X X
6. Selection of staff for 1978                      OLA                                          X XX
7. Appointment of staff for 1978                    OLA/GAO                                            x  x
B. Pro'ect Execution
8. Appointment of project architect                 OLA                       X X X X
9. Appointment of project engineer                  OLA                       X X X X
10. Appointment of equipment specialist              OLA                       X X X X
11. Selection of consultant architects               OLA/PIU                         X X X
12. Appointment of consultant architects             OLA/PIU                                X X
13. Submission for Bank review                       OLA/PIU/Bank                             X X
14. Briefing of consultant architects                PIU/Bank                                  X X X
C. Civil Works
Phase I (Three VTIs)
15. Acquisition of sites                             PIU/PG                               X X X
16. Preparation of standard design
and site layouts                               PIU/CA                                 X X X
17. Submission for Bank review                       PlU/Bank                                 X X X
18. Preparation of tender documents                  PIU/CA                                   X X X X X
19. Invitation for bids                              PIU/CA/OSROK                                    X X X
20. Bid period and evaluation                        PIU/CA/OSROK                                      X X X
21. Submission for Bank review                       PIU/Bank                                             XX X
22. Contract awards                                  PIU/OSROK                                            X X X X
23. Construction period                              PIU/CA/                                                XX X X X X X
Contractor
Phase II (Five VTIs)
24. Acquisition of sites                             PTUIFPG                                              X X XX X
25. Preparation of site layouts                      PIU/CA                                                     XX X
26. Submission for Bank review                       PIU/Bank'                                                  X X X X
27. Preparation of tender documents                  PIU/CA
28. Invitation for bids                              PIU/CA/OSROK
29. Bid period and evaluation                        PIU/CA/OSROK
30. Submission for Bank review                       PIU/Bank
31  Contract awards                                  PIU/OSROK
32. Construction period                              PIU/CA/
Contractor
D. Furniture and Equipment
33. Preparation of master lists                      PIU                                  X X X X X
34. Submission for Bank review                       PIU/Bank                                  X X X X
35. Preparation of tender documents                  PIU/OSROK                                 x x x X X x X X x
36. Invitation for bids                              PIU/OSROK                                                   X KX X X
37. Bid period and evaluation                        PIU/OSROK
38. Submission for Bank review                       PIU/OSROK/Bank
39. Contract awards                                  PIU/OSROK
40. Procurement                                      PIU/OSROK/
Manufacturer
E. Technical Assistance
41. Preparation of terms of reference
for experts                                    PIU                                  XX X                X X X
42. Submission for Bank review                       PIU/Bank                                  X X                 X X
43. Recruitment of experts                           PIU                                       XX X                  X X X
44. Selection of experts                             PIU/OLA                                          X XX X X            X
45. Appointment of experts                           PIU/OLA                                              X  X X X
46. Experts services period                          PIU/Experts                                                 X X X X X
47. Selection of fellowships                          PIU                                  X X X X X X X
48. Fellowships training period                       PIU/Fellows                                X X X X X X X X X X X X
OLA   -O ffice of Labor Affairs
EPB   - Economic Planning Board
MOGA  - Ministry of General Affairs
PIU   - Project Unit
CA    - Consultant Architects
OSROK - Office of Supply Republic of Korea
Source: Mission estimates



tt   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s04UfS OSf40.fo
'"~   ~I  4-   '000       04.  0  0~0.              0      0      010        III .0              40        4    X 0.)
4 - 4-    ~      0 4 ~ ~~.00                                0          0.    00'                                                  0      40       0       0
.~~, 0~~~  00  0.0.0        0.               00        0        04~~~~~~T
t4  '~0                     00004 0ri                          04O -0, 00                                                                0         0
~    c4.    01000040400     4010j   ~ ~ 1O4440O.    0-  --40---44                                                       0    .f         0 -0 0           040-4
AHH                   11~ 11   4



KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF OLA
|DIRECTOR GENERAL 
|   DEPTY DRE CTOR GENERAL |
SECRETARIAT
Labor                   Vocational              Employment               Labor            Manpower                   Labor                    Planning &
Insurance               Training                Security                Admin.            Developt.                 Standards                 Management
m  -               a                                           -                         m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ,-
2 .             |       T       0             _                 _ _                                      .-
tgIXX'_ 0 O-  0
e  -,   ~~~~~-  -.                 0      02                                   Cs      0           a~~-E    0                  A       (
( v               co rn                   rn      -.         r'                                = rn                          5c                a
>   2      a                     02    ,.a                         (0
0                     ft                        0                                 -.        -.                            _
_                    (O' ,                                      t         52                                     c
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~t                               
In                                                                                                                                                                    B    1 n  W
CD ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                                   D0 
0                                                         0~~~~~~~                                  0
Source: Office of Labor Affairs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                                                 5,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YrdBn-73



*~~~~~~~~ p.
KOREA - VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
PROPOSED STRUCTURE FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING BUREAU IN OLA
VOCATIONAL TRAININGl
I _ ~BUREA
(Sections)                                          TEHIA                 GUIDANCE                LA
(Subsections)                            - 0; 3 0 00i .          ; X X 0      X 0                              0
0 ~  ~    -~0
Note: Double lines indicate existing sections
Source: Office of Labor Affairs
W\orld Bank-17033






-                      Iit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~~~IBRD 12886
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4l;                                                                                                                MSEWd/A Y' 
77    1-        N]    M- -          N                                                                               )H
~~~~~~,,K .,/Aon
Cd4I 4A   1
JOPtSea
tunr _ KRA                                                                               OgC t   ;A4hQonglu =   A dEast  Sea
Yellow                                                                                                                                                                       38
Ye t 'o W    S e a    >shun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agren
" . ci " c              )                             Eu ,'eong
East           Ocean
-d                                                                  n 3ebenng                       Weoj                      Jeon  80g 
Tkn.  9ko.,fltSA,,Ap4,nA
37~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31
t                     ;                 3             A  +-    / )      Nogdong               geumsRongi.    K2                                 EA
0 _/  So ,,, i L~~~~~VOCATIONALTrRAINING PROJT0EtCVT[ 
^  -                                         wands                                               :      *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VOCATiONAl.  TRAINING  INSTITUTRSIVTI'sl 1 81
.   .  .                  - ' X                                                            <t    p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VO<C2AETITONAL TPAfNING INSTITUTES IN THIRD EDUCATION
: =::   ---                                       *      ()~~~~~~~~~~~S    THER VOCATIONAL TRAINING INSTITUTESt9)
G        PRIMARY ROADS
34'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- :                                                            DPESPCtAL CIT;ES
Yellow          Seo                                                                                     ----PRO  SCIAL OUSSARIES
-L                       _ . _  ~~~~~~~~INTEPNATIONAL EOUNDARIES
3e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jj
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0g '                                                                                          a u
i                                      >           ^~~~~~~~~~~~~J A                      0      20      40     60      ao     Soo    120    140    160
E 0/ N'    )  )    KiLOMETERS
' p     OIp                                              , 2  2     4      ,          60      ,    0           1500
125'                              120'                                127'                               128'                               29



