Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15361-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
May 28, 1996
Environment and Municipal Development Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIV.ALENTS
(as of May 1,1996)
Currency = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = 100 fen
Yl.00 = SO.12
Sl.00 = Y S.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MlEASURES
I millimeter (mm) = 0.0394 inch (in)
I centimeter (cm) = 03937 inch (in)
I meter (m) = 3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km) = 0.6214 mile (mi)
I square meter (mi2) = 10.7639 square feet (ft 2
I square kilometer(km') =0.3861 square mile (miL)
I cubic meter (mi3) = 35.3147 cubic feet (ft3)
cubic meter (m 3) or ton of water = 284 US gallons
I hectare (ha) = 2.4711 acres (ac)
I liter (1) = 0.2642 US gallon (gal)
liter per capita per day (I/c/d) = 0.2642 US gallon per capita-day
cubic meter per second (m'/sec) =3 5.3145 cubic feet per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYiMS USED
CAS     -  Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA    -  Canadian Intemational Development Authority
CNIITC  -  China National Instruments Intemational Tendering Company
DEAP   -  Dianchi Environmental Action Plan
DRA    -  Design Review and Advisory (Consultant)
EPB     -  Environmental Protection Bureau
EPCSL  -  Environmental Pollution Control Subloans
GMG    -  Gejiu Municipal Government
GWSDC -  Gejiu Water Supply & Drainage Company
ICB     -  Intemational Competitive Bidding
KDC     -  Kunming Drainage Company
KFB     -  Kunming Finance Bureau
KM      -  Kunming Municipalit!
KNMG    -  Kunming Mlunicipal Government
KWSC   -  Kunming Water Supply Company
LAR     -  Land Acquisition and Resettlement
LIBOR   -  London Interbank Borrowing Rate
MTS    -  Medium Transfer Station
NCB     -  National Competitive Bidding
NEPA    -  National Environmental Protection Agency
ODA    -  Overseas Development Administration (of the UK)
QMG    -  Qujing Miunicipal Govemment
QWSDC -  Qujing Water Supply & Drainage Company
RAP    -  Resettlement Action Plan
SLMO   -  Subloans Mvlanagement Office
STS     -  Small Transfer Station
STW     -  Sewage Treatment Works
TVE     -  Township and Village Enterprise
WTP    -  Water Treatment Plant
YEPB    -  Yunnan Environmental Protection Bureau
YEP     -  Yunnan Environment Project
YEPO   -  Yunnan Environment Project Office
YFB     -  Yunnan Finance Bureau
YP      -  Yunnan Province
YPG     -  Yunnan Provincial Government



- i -
CHINA
YUNNAN ENVIRONNIENT PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The People's Republic of China.
Beneficiaries:           Yunnan Province; the Municipalities of Gejiu, Kunming and
Qujing; the water supply companies of Kunming and Qujing;
the wastewater companies of Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing;
industrial enterprises.
Poverty:                 Not applicable.
Amount:                  Loan:  $125 million.
Credit: SDR 17.4 million ($25 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Loan:  20 years including 5 years of grace, at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans.
Credit: Standard, with 35 years' maturity.
Commitment Fees:         Standard
Onlending Terms:         From the Government of China through Yunnan Province
through the Municipalities to implementing water and
wastewater entities: 15 years, including 5 years of grace at
the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans, and a commitment charge at the Bank's
standard rate, with the entities bearing the foreign exchange
risk.
From Yunnan Province and Kunming Municipality to
industrial enterprises: up to 10 years including up to 3 years
of grace at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US
dollar single currency loans, plus a spread of no less than 1.5
percent per year and a commitment charge at the Bank's
standard rate, with the enterprises bearing the foreign
exchange risk.
From Yunnan Province to participating enterprises for
environmental pollution control: up to 5 years including up



- ii -
to 2 years of grace at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-
based US dollar single currency loans, plus a spread of no
less than 1.5 percent per year and a commitmnent charge at
the Bank's standard rate, with the enterprises bearing the
foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:           See Table 3.2.
Net Present Value:        The water supply, solid waste and wastewater collection and
treatrnent investments in the project were determined through
least-cost analysis.
Project ID Number:        CN-PE-3599



- iii -
CONTENTS
1. URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT .............................................1
A. Urban Environmental Conditions ...............................................1
B. Regulation Of Point Source Pollution ...............................................2
C. Collective Waste Handling and Treatment ...............................................                          3
D. Bank Group Sector Strategy ...............................................4
2. THE  PROJECT  AREA  ...............................................7
A. Economic Setting ...............................................7
B. The Project Areas ...............................................8
C. The Provincial Government's Environmental Strategy .................................... 12
D. Formulation of the Proposed Project ..............................................                             13
3. THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT ...............................................                                                     15
A. Project Objectives ...............................................                                             15
B. Project Description ...............................................                                            15
C. Project Monitoring ..............................................                                              17
D. Project Cost Estimates ..............................................                                          17
E. Financing Plan ..............................................                                                  19
F. Procurement ..............................................                                                     21
G. Disbursement ..............................................                                                    24
H. Land Acquisition and Resettlement ..............................................                               25
1. Environmental Impact Assessment ...............................................                                26
J. Project Reporting and Supervision ...............................................                              27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in March
1996. Project team members included Mr. Geoffrey Read (Municipal Engineer and Task
Manager), Mr. Chris Bros (Cost Engineer Consultant), Mr. Jack Fritz (Environmental
Engineer), Mr. Lee Travers (Environmental Economist), Mr. Terry Hall (Sanitary
Engineering Consultant), Mr. Patrick McCarthy (Financial Consultant), and Dr. George
Taylor (Environmental Consultant). Assistance was also provided by Ms. Meredith
Dearborn, Ms. Gillian Houston and Ms. Socorro Manila (Report Processing), and Mr. You
Ji (Interpreter). Peer reviewers for the project were Ms. Adrienne Nassau (EC3IV),
Mr. Heinz Unger (ASTEN), and Mr. Neil Boyle (SA3IE). The managing division is
EA2EM. The Division Chief is Ms. Katherine Sierra and the Department Director is
Mr. Nicholas C. Hope.



- Iv -
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..................................... 29
A. Project Management ...........................................................                                            29
B. Implementation  Responsibilities ...........................................................                              30
C. Status of Engineering ...........................................................                                         34
5. FINANCE ...........................................................                                                                   35
A. Financial Management ...........................................................                                          35
B. Accounting ...........................................................                                                    35
C. Audits ..........................................................                                                         36
D. Provincial Finance ..........................................................                                             36
E. Prefectural Finance ..........................................................                                            37
F. Municipal Finance ..........................................................                                              37
G. Public Utilities ..........................................................                                               38
H. Solid  Waste and Nightsoil Management ........................................................... 42
I. Industrial Pollution  Control ..........................................................                                  42
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS ........... 44
A. Project Justification ...........................................................                                         44
B. Economic Analysis ..........................................................                                              44
C. Environmental Impact ..........................................................                                           49
D. Affordability  and  Poverty  Assessment ........................................................... 50
E. Project Risks ...........................................................                                                 50
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 54
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Background to Yunnan Province and Project Cities .59
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description .64
Annex 3: Detailed Project Cost Estimates .95
Annex 4: Schedule of Contract Packages .106
Annex 5: Schedule of Disbursements .109
Annex 6: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan .110
Annex 7: Environmental Assessment Summary .124
Annex 8: Project Implementation Schedule .142
Annex 9: Proposed Monitoring Indicators .144
Annex  10:  Proposed  Supervision  Plan ....................................................                                           146
Annex  11:  Yunnan  Provincial and  Municipal Organizations ........................................ 147
Annex  12:  Industrial Pollution  Control ....................................................                                         153
Annex 13: Municipal Finances ....................................................                                                      163
Annex  14:  Financial Analysis Assumptions ...................................................                                         165
Annex 15: Economic, Social and Environmental Considerations ................................. 174
Annex 16: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ........................ 201



v -
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 3.1: Summary Cost Estimates ...............................................                                            18
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan ...............................................                                            19
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements ...............................................                                          22
Table 4.1: Implementing Agencies ...............................................                                             30
Table 5.1: Water and Wastewater Average Tariffs ...............................................                              38
Table 5.2: Key Water Supply Financial and Operating Indicators ................................... 39
Table 5.3: Key Wastewater Financial and Operating Indicators ...................................... 41
MAP
IBRD 27911 Yunnan Environment Project



I



- 1 -
1. URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
A. URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
1.1   The mid-1970s loss to pollution of a major urban raw water supply near Beijing
first drew China's attention to the damage pollution could cause. Over the ensuing 20
years China has developed an environmental protection system employing a broad set of
control instruments administered through environmental protection bureaus now found in
all cities and virtually all rural counties. A national environmental action plan has been
developed to coordinate domestic environmental improvement efforts. China has also
been a responsive partner in international efforts to control pollution and was one of the
first countries to finish their Agenda 21 program after the Rio conference.
1.2   Despite this activism, China has had mixed success in implementing
environmental policy over the past two decades. Some aspects of the record are quite
good-airborne total suspended particulate (TSP) concentrations have been markedly
reduced in cities in both north and south China and state-owned enterprise discharges of
toxic metals in wastewater have fallen substantially. In line with rapidly increasing
urbanization and economic growth, the demands made on water resources are exceeding
supply. Water pollution continues to grow. The percentage of urban aquifers found to be
polluted has risen from 20 percent in 1983 to 45 percent today. In the most recently
published water quality survey, sections of rivers in 54 of 58 reporting cities failed to
meet even the lowest acceptable standard, leaving few economic uses-except as waste
sinks.
1.3   The human cost of this pollution is high. Over 400 million Chinese live in cities,
a number expected to jump to some 800 million by 2010. The health costs of water
pollution are more difficult to measure. Raw water pollution has forced cities to move to
increasingly distant and more expensive raw water sources; farmers have had to switch
from irrigation with surface water to pumping groundwater, and fisheries have been
damaged.
1.4   The reasons for the growing pollution are not difficult to identify. A coal-based
fuel system firing a large stock of inefficient boilers and power plants contributes to air
quality problems, as does widespread dependence on coal stoves for household cooking
and heating. With urban growth and rising personal incomes have come rapid increases
in the volume of municipal wastewater flows-they grew from 7 billion m annually in
1984 to 13 billion m3 in 1992. Those came with the growth of inhouse water connections
and of washing machines and flush toilets. Industrial wastewater discharges in urban
areas declined over that same period, as reuse and other water-saving techniques
increased water use efficiency. Solid waste generation has grown rapidly, and only some
25 percent of the municipal solid waste and nightsoil are disposed of to national



- 2 -
standards. The remainder is dumped at uncovered dumping sites without leachate or gas
control facilities.
1.5   The nature of the discharges affecting the urban environment dictate a mix of
regulatory and investment responses by different levels of government. These have been
discussed in two Bank studies, the first analyzing overall environmental circumstances
and policy (China. Environmental Strategy Paper, Report No. 9669-CHA, April 1992)
and the second that specific to the urban sector (China: Urban Environmental Service
Management, Report No, 13073-CHA, December 1994). As described in those reports,
municipal governments must seek an efficient mix of point source control through
regulation and collective treatment of wastes.
B. REGULATION OF POINT SOURCE POLLUTION
1.6   The regulation of point source pollution falls to the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA), as the secretariat of the State Council Environmental
Protection Committee.  NEPA  drafts national regulations and other aspects of
environmental policy for consideration by the State Council and National People's
Congress. NEPA has the power to interpret national environmental regulations and
standards, including those governing the operations of the local environmental protection
bureaus (EPBs) that work at provincial and municipal level. However, NEPA lacks
implementation authority, a power left to local governments and the EPBs under them.
1.7   Provincial governments are authorized to set local environmental standards in the
absence of preemptive national standards, or to impose more stringent standards than
those required by the national government. Provincial EPBs coordinate these policies
and, in contrast to NEPA, may play a direct role in implementation. However, the
municipal, urban district and county EPBs bear the main burden of enforcement for both
national and provincial regulations. The budgets, personnel appointments, and work
plans of each level EPB derive from the government of that level. To aid quality control,
performance must be reported to the next higher administrative level EPB, which also
sets testing protocols and other performance criteria.
1.8   China's regulatory approach has focused on three instruments: environmental
assessment before approval of new projects; the "three simultaneous" licensing strategy
that requires integration of pollution control in project design, inclusion of the abatement
measures in the actual investment, and proper operation of the abatement equipment; and
a pollution levy fee chargeable against waste streams that have concentrations of
pollutants above permitted levels. More recently, governments have been authorized to
levy a small charge on wastewater discharges within standards.
1.9   The pollution levy fees fund operation of the environmental protection system.
Local EPBs retain approximately 20 percent of the fees to cover operating costs, while
earmarking the remaining funds to finance pollution abatement in eligible enterprises.
The handling of the earmarked funds has shifted over time from being granted directly
back to the enterprise paying the fee to lending the funds on concessional terms for
eligible pollution control investments.



1.10 NEPA now recognizes two problems with the pollution levy fee system. First,
fees are typically set considerably below the marginal cost of effluent treatment, which
encourages enterprises to pay the fee rather than operate or invest in treatment facilities or
cleaner production technologies. Second, by setting fees on the basis of concentration-
based standards may lead to dilution as a means of compliance or reducing fee rates, and
surface waters receiving discharges could fail to meet standards even though all
enterprises in a watershed individually meet standards. Conversely, if assimilative
capacity is high and enterprises few, the concentration standard could force compliance
costs far above the damage done by the discharge.
1.11  Two more regulatory issues originate in structural features of the economy. The
first arises from the fact that local governments usually own the major enterprises within
their boundaries, leading to pressures to relax regulation or fee collection in the interest of
employment and profits. The second is that the enterprises operating on the periphery of
cities may have a large impact on municipal environmental quality, yet fall outside
municipal control. This latter problem is particularly acute with the small-scale township
and village enterprises (TVEs). Individual TVE enforcement costs are high relative to
output, yet in the aggregate TVE pollution has a large impact on the downstream
environment.
1.12  NEPA has a large research and experimentation program under way to identify
new approaches to overcome these and other regulatory problems.  Among these
initiatives is the use of catchment-specific mass-based pollution permits to replace the
concentration-based standards and fees. More generally, NEPA seeks effective market-
based pollution control mechanisms to complement the national shift to a market-based
economy and avoid many of the problems of enterprise-specific regulation. The Bank
supports NEPA's program through the Environmental Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 2522-CHA) and investment projects such as the one now proposed.
C. COLLECTIVE WASTE HANDLING AND TREATMENT
1.13  Urban environmental services, which include wastewater collection and treatment
systems and solid waste collection and treatment, fall under the purview of the
Construction Commissions found in every Chinese city. Overall regulatory guidance and
standard setting is provided by the Ministry of Construction and the provincial
Construction Bureaus. The Ministry and Bureaus set national and provincial policy for
urban and regional planning, infrastructure development planning, and facility operating
standards. They also specify financial accounting procedures and goals. Based on those
policies and standards, the municipal commissions provide or regulate providers of the
actual service. The municipal commissions are typically among the largest and most
powerful of the municipal administrative bodies, having under them bureaus or
companies directly providing key urban services.
1.14  Chinese cities are characterized by a good correspondence between expenditure
responsibility and control over revenue. This sets them apart from cities in many
developing countries, which have been characterized by inadequate funding to meet



- 4 -
mandated services. Chinese cities also tend to have well-staffed administrations, with
their broad control over the local economy making them an attractive employer. These
advantages have helped China achieve piped water supply to nearly 90 percent of all
urban residents, but has not automatically led to high levels of service in every field. The
low level of adequate solid waste disposal was cited earlier and local watercourses
continue to serve as both drains and sewers for nearly 40 percent of the area of Chinese
cities. Wastewater treatment levels are low, with only 4.5 percent of municipal flows
treated in 1992.  Cities have given priority to water supply, roads, and enterprise
investment over environmental services. Yet rapidly growing problems with raw water
quality are forcing recognition across cities that wastes need to be adequately handled.
1.15  The major policy problem identified in China: Urban Environmental Service
Management was the failure to charge, or charge adequately, for environmental services.
Although cities have long charged for water delivery, residential wastewater charges are
virtually unknown, while charges to enterprises have been rare, and where collected, fall
far below operating needs. Solid waste collection fees are charged more often, but those
services still require substantial subsidies. An important consequence of this failure to
charge adequate user fees is that service investment programs have failed to meet goals
due to lack of finance. The Ministry of Construction estimates that two thirds of the
municipal wastewater treatment plants either do not operate, or operate far below capacity
due to lack of funds. Moreover, when users do not have to pay they have no incentive to
reduce waste volumes. This creates the need for larger service systems when they are
provided.
D. BANK GROUP SECTOR STRATEGY
1.16  The Bank Group highlighted enhancing environmental protection and alleviating
infrastructure bottlenecks as two of the four areas of concentration under the China
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in June 1995. Our close
collaboration with the Chinese govermnent covers both the regulatory and service
provision aspects of urban environmental management. The China: Environmental
Strategy Paper sector study led to the Environmental Technical Assistance Project noted
earlier, which assists NEPA in its efforts to find more efficient regulatory methods,
improve staff capabilities, and bolster environmental monitoring.  That project
complements Bank-administered, Japanese Government-financed technical assistance to
NEPA covering (a) the environmental impact assessment process; (b) waste minimization
and pollution control in rural industries; (c) hazardous/toxic waste management;
(d) economic/financial mechanisms for environmental management; and (e) environ-
mental information management systems.  The Global Environmental Facility has
supported studies and projects on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the loss of
biodiversity in China, and ozone-depleting substances. Finally, Beijing Municipality has
joined with four other Asian cities as members of the Metropolitan Environmental
Improvement Program financed by the United Nations Development Programme and the
World Bank.



1.17  In addition to national regulatory assistance, we are currently involved in six
urban environmental projects in 12 cities, which incorporate policy, financing and
organizational strategies for improved environmental regulation and service delivery at
the provincial and municipal levels. Another five ongoing investment projects in another
12 cities include related issues such as municipal water supply and sanitation. The initial
round of projects focused on China's largest cities-Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin-and
those located primarily in the wealthier northeast and coastal provinces. Environmental
pressures remain high in those areas and cooperation will continue, as with the recently
approved Second Shanghai Sewerage Project (Ln. 3987-CHA) and the Shandong
Environment Project now being prepared. However, the recently approved Hubei Urban
Environmental Project (Loan 3966/Credit 2799-CHA) marks a shift in geographic focus,
moving toward inland and poorer areas. Hubei, a medium-income province, is located in
central China, while operations in poor areas, like the proposed project in Yunnan and
another being prepared in Guangxi Province, will further test the feasibility of policy and
institutional solutions.
1.18  A review of ongoing Bank Group projects in the sector in China and elsewhere
presents relevant lessons in the provision and management of urban environmental
services and in industrial pollution control.
1.19 Bankwide municipal management sector work (Urban Sector Delivery: Finding
the Right Incentives) emphasizes the need to assign functional responsibilities
appropriately and link revenue to expenditures. In China's case, environmental services
are fittingly provided at the municipal level, where a high percentage of government
revenue is also captured. China: Urban Environmental Service Management concludes
that the major failing in environmental services has been dependence on municipal
budget transfers to fund services, while greater reliance on user charges would be
affordable, induce resource conservation, and create a more dependable income stream.
Similarly, the Operation and Evaluation Department's review of Bank-financed water and
sanitation projects (Water Supply and Sanitation Projects: The Bank Experience 1967-
1989) found generally good physical performance but less successful financial viability
and overall sectoral development. For that reason, increasing tariffs was a focus of the
policy dialogue during preparation of this project, with the result that water supply tariffs
were adjusted prior to project preappraisal and appraisal. This openness to introducing
improvements was seen during preparation of the Urban Environmental Service study, for
which Kunming and other Yunnan cities were used as case studies. Urban managers
from Kunming acted on some of the ideas exchanged during the study even before study
completion.
1.20 The Bank's experience of industrial pollution control includes projects in China,
as well as in Mexico, Brazil, India, Indonesia and the Russian Federation. A review of
completed projects (Industry and Environment: Pattern in World Bank Lending)
emphasizes the need for political commitment, clear standards and regulations, incentives
to comply, and institutional capability to monitor and enforce standards. When industrial
pollution abatement subloans are involved, the following conditions increase likelihood
of success: a profitable and growing industrial sector, flexibility in choice of technology,



- 6 -
availability of funds at close-to-market terms, and targeting on sources that can yield
significant improvement in the arnbient environment.
1.21  The industrial pollution control component of the proposed project draws on these
lessons and those in the two recent environmental sector studies. The latter stress issues
of political commitment, appropriate standards and incentives, and institutional
monitoring and enforcement capabilities.  This project addresses those issues by
improving the monitoring and enforcement capacities of Yunnan's provincial and
municipal EPBs by providing training, institutional development and equipment.
Competent enforcement of regulations would be enhanced by requiring the Kunming
Environmental Protection Bureau (KEPB) to carry out a time-bound Action Plan for
collecting pollution levies in Kunming.
1.22  The proposed project therefore responds to Bank Group experience and CAS
objectives for the environment and infrastructure development.  Environmental
amelioration would be enhanced by an improved regulatory environment, protection of
critical water and land resources, and reduction of current pollution loads. Infrastructure
expansion would benefit from investment in wastewater and solid waste collection and
treatment as well as in water supply expansion, commercialization of operating agencies,
an improved tariff policy to fund maintenance of the existing systems as well as their
future expansion, and modem operating techniques. The Bank Group's strategy flows
from and supports China's Environmental Action Plan and Agenda 21, which provide the
basis for joint Government and Bank action in the environmental sector, especially in
regard to the urban environment.  The provincial focus recognizes the effective
decentralization of regulatory and investment authority in China, and draws on local
political power and commitment to induce wider use of the solutions to be demonstrated
under the project.
1.23  Further, the project supports the Bank Group's increasingly sharper focus on
China's poorer areas, where environmental challenges often go unaddressed for lack of
resources and expertise. It complements a range of other Bank Group-assisted projects
targeted at the poorest part of Yunnan's population, including $62 million under the
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (FY95); and lesser arnounts under the
Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health Project (FY94), the Education Development
in Poor Provinces Project (FY92); Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (FY92); the
Third Rural Credit Project (FY88); and the proposed Fourth Basic Education Project,
now being prepared. While the project proposed here is not expected to directly affect
the very poorest, it is likely to benefit relatively poor rural migrants to the project cities.
Without project interventions to protect the water resources needed for sustained
economic growth, the absorption of poorer rural migrants by Kunming and the other
project cities would slow. Furthermore, continued economic growth at the municipal
level would generate provincial tax revenues to fund programs for the province's neediest
inhabitants.



-7 -
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. ECONOMIC SETTING
2.1   Yunnan Province in southwestem China shares intemational borders (and rivers)
with Myanmar, Lao PDR and Viet Namn (Map IBRD 27911). The province has a current
population of 40 million, with the eastem half-a plateau-twice as densely populated as
the mountainous, riverine west. About a third of the population belongs to minority
groups, the largest proportion of any province in China. Yunnan is China's third poorest
province, with an average annual per capita income of about $134 equivalent in 1992.
Poverty is most severe in the mountainous areas where the inadequate resource base
keeps many inhabitants in absolute poverty, i.e., with annual per capita incomes below
Y300.
2.2   From a weak base, Yunnan's overall economy has been developing rapidly in the
past 15 years, with recent annual real growth rates of about 10 percent, largely owing to
growth in industry and services in the more prosperous eastem half. Agriculture,
employing most of the population, registered a respectable 5.4 percent growth rate during
1980-92, despite the generally mountainous topography and difficult growing conditions.
The industrial sector, employing about 10 percent of the labor force, showed robust
growth during the 1980-92 period, at an average 11.1 percent a year, and now accounts
for about 41 percent of the provincial gross domestic product (GDP). The service sector
grew even faster over this period, at an average 11.5 percent a year, and now contributes
almost 18 percent of GDP and employs another 10 percent of the labor force. During the
1990s, increased tourism to the province's striking natural and cultural endowments has
contributed to this development. Improvements in provincial road and rail transport and
opening of intemational borders with the three neighboring countries and thus to all of
Southeast Asia, with which Yunnan shares ethnic ties, should help sustain the momentum
for industrial and service sector growth in the province.
2.3   Yunnan's 1993 urban population was a relatively low 17 percent of total
population, and officially grew only 0.9 percent a year from 1980 to 1993. However,
those growth rates do not capture the large influx of migrants who have not gained
official urban status, nor do they reflect the dynamic growth of small towns. If town and
city populations are combined, nearly 43 percent of Yunnanese live in, or near,
population centers with 3,000 or more people. With Yunnan's rapid industrial and
service sector growth, urbanization should continue at a high rate through the next decade
and beyond. Currently, about 38 percent of all economic output is generated in the
province's 11 cities, with Kunming, the provincial capital, generating more than 15
percent of gross provincial output.



-8 -
2.4   The combination of rapid urbanization and income growth has put great pressure
on urban environmental services. Flush toilets are replacing pit latrines and indoor water
connections encourage the use of washing machines and other water-using appliances.
Thus, to the water demand that comes with an expanding population and industrial base is
added that from higher per capita incomes. But for most Yunnan cities, additional water
must come from ever more distant sources and at ever increasing real cost. The same
forces leading to higher water demand have increased effluent loads on receiving waters.
While nightsoil from latrines is composted for use on fields, that from flush toilets settles
in septic tanks, with the overflow draining to urban waterways or, more rarely, sewers.
Only Kunming has sewage treatment-two plants-that currently handle about 20
percent of Kunming's wastewater. Domestic solid wastes are increasing in volume and
shifting from a combination of coal ash and household organic wastes to an ever more
difficult to handle mix of traditional materials and packaging, plastic, and other modem
materials. Heretofore, Yunnan has lacked the sanitary landfills designed to safely handle
the leachate and methane generated in waste dumps. Urban services have lagged urban
and economic growth, but cannot continue to do so without slowing that growth.
2.5   Yunnan's industrial development has been based on a combination of agricultural
product processing and exploitation of abundant tin, iron ore, coal, and phosphate
resources. Although concentrated on urban areas, rural areas with rich resources have
developed township and village enterprises (TVEs) to exploit them. The dispersed nature
of some of this development, and the relatively high absorptive capacity of the
environment in the early stage of industrialization, led to relaxed application of national
industrial pollution control standards. But now the combination of urban and industrial
pollution loads has, in key population centers, destroyed potable water sources, reduced
agricultural and fishery output, ended recreational water use and led to human illness.
Environmental controls have tightened, but with the historical legacy of pollution
intensive industrial plant and lack of wastewater treatment, deterioration has only slowed,
not been reversed.
B. THE PROJECT AREAS
2.6   The cities and their rural hinterlands selected to benefit from the proposed
investments exemplify the development successes and environmental problems in
Yunnan (see Annex 1). Kunming, the provincial capital and engine of provincial
economic growth, holds some 1.2 million people and generates more than 15 percent of
gross provincial output. Lake Dianchi, source of half of the city's water supply, has been
reduced from a pristine Grade II quality to below Grade V, the lowest usable level, in
only 20 years. Qujing, Yunnan's fastest growing city, with over 210,000 people,
generates an additional 4 percent of gross provincial output. Irrigation water from the
Nanpanjiang, which cuts through Qujing, began killing crops in downstream villages in
1990, and had to be abandoned for that and drinking water use by villagers, who were
forced to turn to much more expensive well water for drinking and unreliable rainfall for
field crops. Gejiu, an industrial city of 215,000 built around a tin mining and smelting
operation, adjoins a lake formed by a 1954 landslide. Industrial and domestic pollution



- 9 -
always prevented the use of the lake for drinking water, although it has continued as an
industrial water source despite falling to Grade V in the 1970s. Gejiu, which is growing
more slowly than Kunming and Qujing, produces about I percent of gross provincial
output.
Kunming and Lake Dianchi
2.7   Virtually all of Kunming lies upstream of Lake Dianchi, and historically those
wastewater discharges drained to the lake, with those from the city proper going largely
to the small Caohai (or inner lake) connected by a narrow neck of water to the much
larger Waihai (or outer lake). The discharges included domestic waste and that from such
industrial operations as nonferrous smelting operations, steel mills, fertilizer plants, a
pesticide plant, and some 10 paper mills. Over 5,000 industrial enterprises now operate
in Kunming. Most plants include some type of wastewater treatment, but most of the
treatment facilities operate below capacity or only part time. A municipal wastewater
treatment plant commissioned in 1991 captures and treats about 10 percent of the
domestic wastewater, but the rest discharges untreated. The lake itself discharges into the
Tanglangchuan River, still within Kunming's political boundaries, from which paper,
steel, and other industries draw river water and to which they discharge wastes.
2.8   Although discharges of toxic heavy metals and other industrial byproducts have
led to episodic closure of raw water intakes and a concern with eating lake aquatic
products, those toxic discharges have been largely controlled. Today, massive algae
blooms give the most visible evidence of lake pollution and, along with water hyacinth,
cause the greatest problems for lake use. Investigation into the nutrient cycle feeding the
algae has shown phosphorus to be the limiting nutrient, and hence strategies to control
lake pollution now focus on reducing phosphorus. As a measure of lake pollution, total
phosphorus stayed stable and below 0.03 mg/l through 1970, then began an accelerating
increase, but remained below 0.05 mg/l until nearly 1980. By 1995 the level had reached
0.2 mg/l, and if inputs continue unabated, will reach an estimated 0.3 mg/l by 2000 and
nearly 0.6 mg/l by 2010. Eutrophication, the loss of dissolved oxygen due to algae
blooms, typically begins at phosphorus concentrations of about 0.2 mg/l, and did so in
Dianchi.
2.9   As late as 1975, water quality across the lake held within Grade II. At that time,
Kunming residents swam in the lake, the fishing industry harvested 10,000 tons of fish
annually, rural villagers on the lake margin used it for cooking, washing, and irrigation
water, and a modest tourist industry was built around lake cruises. The city drew water
for municipal supply for a treatment plant on the north shore of the lake and built another
in 1990 on the better situated eastern shore. By 1995, fish harvests were down to
6,500 tons of lower grade species, swimming and other water contact had ended, as had
the lake cruises. The northern water intake has been permanently closed and the eastern
one provides supplementary supply to higher quality reservoir water.



- 10-
2.10  The destruction of Dianchi cannot be attributed to industrial and domestic waste
alone. Here, as in many areas of China, political campaigns began as early as the 1950s
to expand cultivated land through massive infilling of the wetlands that once girded the
lake. This reduced the Caohai area from 12 km 2 before 1970 to only 8 km' by 1990.
Losses were not as drastic in percentage terms for the Waihai, but the loss of nutrient
absorptive capacity and aquatic nurseries represented by the wetlands has played a critical
role in the water quality decline and the decline of aquatic diversity.
2.11  The Yunnan and Kunming EPBs are charged with enforcing the environmental
laws and regulations that have, since the mid-1970s, been continually developed. In
recognition of the special problems of a lake basin, another institution, the Dianchi Lake
Protection Commission, was formed in 1988 to enforce a basinwide management strategy
over which the EPBs have no authority. For example, the Protection Commission
enforces the restriction against any further landfill of the lake. It reports to the People's
Congress in Kunming.
2.12  The EPBs and the Protection Authority have had mixed success. Any attempt by
them to shut down a heavily polluting operation, or to impose punitive fines or other
sanctions, must be agreed by the municipal authorities. Because severe regulatory action
typically means the loss of jobs or income to urban workers, or, worse, to their poorer
rural brethren, agreement can be hard to obtain. Rather, the authorities attempt first to
identify sources of capital that will allow enterprise renovation sufficient to bring it
within discharge standards. Years might pass before they achieve this, and in the
meantime discharges continue. Nonetheless, much has been done in recent years. One
highly polluting smelter has routed treated discharges past the lake and into a downstream
reach of the Tanglangchuan River. The Caohai has been isolated from the Waihai by a
dike and gate, and a tunnel 4 meters in diameter built to route Caohai water-which
receives 50 percent of all urban wastes-to the Tanglangchuan downstream of the major
industries. And funding has been identified for a number of environmental investments.
2.13 Wastewater System. The Kunming Drainage Company (KDC), a government-
owned but autonomous agency, is responsible for collection and treatment of sewage
discharged by residents and businesses in the municipal area. A sewerage master plan for
Kunming was prepared with technical assistance from the Government of Switzerland,
and approved in 1990. The city center has four drainage areas, all sewered. About 55
percent of the population have plumbing in their homes and another 25 percent use
communal toilets connected to the sewerage system. One wastewater treatment plant was
constructed in 1991 and another, built with Swedish Government assistance, was just
commissioned. Two other plants are being built, one with Australian Government
support, the other self-financed.  Total treatment capacity of these four plants is
365,000 m3/day, compared to current discharges of 400,000 m3/day and projected
wastewater flows of around 600,000 m3/day by the year 2010.
2.14  Cost recovery on wastewater and drainage services is low. Charges imposed on
large industries do not cover even the operating and maintenance costs of providing this



- 11 -
service, and domestic consumers pay no charge. However, the Provincial Government
has recognized the need to make progress toward full cost recovery on enviromnental
services, and is expected to make tariff adjustments. Tariffs on industrial wastewater are
expected to rise from Y 0.08/m3 on 80 percent of water consumption to Y 0.35/m3 on
100 percent of water consumption, and the same tariff of Y 0.35/m3 would be levied on
households. The break-even financial performance target for KDC under the proposed
project will require further tariff increases (para. 5.21).
2.15  Water Supply System. Apart from a minor groundwater source, Kunming draws
its water supply about equally from Lake Dianchi and from the Songhuaba Reservoir on
the Panlong River, 13 km northeast of Kunming.  (The Reservoir was originally
constructed for irrigation, but agriculture, industry and domestic users now compete for
its water.) About 85 percent of the city's population is connected to the water supply
system, which includes six water treatment plants, with a design capacity of about
480,000 m3/day. Four of these plants treat water for Songhuaba Reservoir and two treat
Dianchi Lake water; one of the latter has been closed due to difficulties in sustaining
treatment processes because of poor water quality. The system is operated by the
Kunming Water Supply Company (KWSC), discussed further in Chapter 4. The
system's most pressing physical needs are for expansion of connections into still-
unserved suburban areas, rehabilitation of existing facilities to reduce leakage
(unaccounted-for water is reported at 10 to 12 percent but is thought to be considerably
higher), protection of current raw water sources, and identification of new ones.
2.16  Even more important is the introduction of demand management measures, since
water demand now exceeds economically sustainable supply in dry years, and will do so
increasingly in the future. With no special measures taken, by the year 2020, demand is
expected to increase from the current 538,000 m3/day to 953,000 m3/day. Current
demand is driven by two factors: a recent fall in the real cost of water due to inflation
and increasing real incomes. The Provincial Government, spurred by discussions with
the Bank Group during project preparation, recently authorized the first water tariff
increase since early 1993, and domestic tariffs rose from Y 0.32/mr  to Y 0.60/m3.
Despite the tariff doubling, the new rates are considered affordable, representing only
about 0.6 percent of per capita income. To meet Yunnan Provincial Government's
(YPG's) financial objectives for the water supply sector in Kunming, further tariff
increases, complemented by measures promoting water conservation and leakage
reduction, are still needed, and are proposed under the project (para. 5.17).
2.17  Solid Waste Management. The city currently disposes of its domestic and
commercial solid waste at two dumps, neither of which meet national sanitary treatment
standards. Another five dumps containing large quantities of waste have been virtually
filled, giving rise to continuing leachate pollution and requiring urgent remediation.
Disposal of industrial solid waste is the responsibility of the generating enterprise, under
the supervision of the Kunming Environmental Protection Bureau (KEPB).



- 12 -
Qujing
2.18  Qujing, Yunnan's fastest-growing city with a population of some 220,000, lies on
the Nanpanjiang River, a tributary of the Pearl River (Map IBRD 27911). The city is
undergoing swift expansion and expects to double its population over the next decade.
Like Kunming, Qujing is a water-short area, but with little treatment of the increasing
amounts of domestic and industrial wastewater. The Qujing portion of the Nanpanjiang
is already heavily polluted, with water quality rated worse than Class V in the dry season.
Recently, use of the river water for even irrigation was curtailed because water
contamination was so severe that it killed crops. The causes of these problems are similar
to those in Kunming, although here the river removes the wastewater from the city
boundaries. Municipal growth has also generated greatly increased quantities of solid
waste, which is disposed of at a poorly managed dump.
Gejiu
2.19  Gejiu, a city of some 134,000 people, is physically built around a lake and
economically built around a large state-owned zinc mine and tin smelter. It also suffers
from severe environmental strains due to the lack of any wastewater treatment facilities
(Map IBRD 27911). The water quality in Lake Gejiu is now worse than Class V
standard. Flood control is also a problem, and the threat of flooding constrains the city's
development. Decades of mining, pollution by nonferrous industries, and rapid growth of
TVEs have caused great destruction to the Gejiu environment, and have intensified
problems of water supply, soil erosion and lake sedimentation.
C. THE PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT'S ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY
2.20  Recognizing the problems exemplified above, YP in 1993 issued a strong
statement on the need to reverse the province's environmental decline and initiated
various actions aimed at achieving this goal.  Among other things, the Yunnan
Environmental Protection Bureau (YEPB) and EPB offices at the prefectural, municipal
and county levels supplemented their normal duties (i.e., monitoring environmental
conditions, enforcing environmental laws and regulations on industrial activities, and
collecting pollution levies) with measures to reverse the environmental deterioration that
has accompanied growth.
2.21  First, the Province prepared and began to implement the "1722" Project to:
(a) control 100 serious industrial polluting sources by 1997 (of which 42 have been
addressed thus far); (b) control gaseous emissions over 70 km2 of urban area (now
completed); (c) add capacity to treat an additional 0.2 million tons per day (tpd) of
domestic wastewater; and (d) reverse the pollution of two water bodies-Lake Dianchi
and the Nanpanjiang River. Second, Kunming Municipality established the Lake Dianchi
Protection Authority, which has overseen construction of the tunnel, intended to increase
the lake's flood protection capacity and to prevent the polluted waters of the Caohai from
entering the Waihai, thus protecting the water supply intakes on the lake and the upper



- 13 -
reaches of the Tanglangchuan River. The Caohai, which accounts for 2.5 percent of the
lake area, receives about 50 percent of Kunming's wastewater.
2.22  Third, Dianchi Lake water will be pumped 19 km for irrigation use, freeing the
high quality Songhuaba Reservoir water for Kunming's water supply. Fourth, water
demand management initiatives have been introduced, including tariff increases to reflect
the production cost of water, the establishment of a Water Conservation Office to help
reduce wastage, and limited network rehabilitation to reduce unaccounted-for water.
Finally, other regulatory actions and incentives have been implemented to protect the
catchment, such as encouraging the relocation of industry outside the catchment and
banning the further establishment of polluting industries inside the catchment. With
response to some of the environmental issues, these actions have proved sufficient. A
long-term solution requires effluent reductions at source, or, where more economic,
collective treatment.
D. FORMULATION OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
2.23  To build on these initiatives and to follow up studies funded by the Government
of Norway, the Province secured assistance from the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) of the United Kingdom, which funded design review and advisory
(DRA) consultants, to develop a Dianchi Environmental Action Plan (DEAP) and similar
plans for Qujing and Gejiu, and support YP in project preparation. Support for the
preparation of the Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring component of the
proposed project was also provided by the Canadian International Development
Authority(CIDA). Bank Group support for the proposed project, to implement priority
measures included in the plans, was then requested. The overall objective of the project
is to tackle the immediate and underlying causes of environmental degradation in the
project cities. In Kunming and the Dianchi Catchment, this focuses on the protection of
Lake Dianchi and ensuring its use as a continued source of potable water for Kunning.
In Gejiu and Qujing, improved wastewater management would be the focus of project
support, with the aim of preventing untreated waste entering water bodies. The water
supply systems of Kunning and Qujing would also be expanded.
2.24  As recommended in the DEAP, reducing the rate of growth of phosphorus
concentrations in the lake, which result from domestic waste and industrial effluent
(particularly from two large fertilizer factories), is the first priority and would therefore
be the project's chief physical goal. Phosphorus, and to a lesser extent nitrogen, is
considered the limiting factor in Dianchi's eutrophication. Other nutrients and toxic
nutrients, including organic matter and heavy metals, would also decline. To this end, the
proposed project would expand the sewer system in Kunming and link it to treatment
plants now being constructed; provide the additional wastewater treatment capacity still
needed; extend the water supply system to the city's expanding suburban areas; and
provide sanitary landfills to reduce leachate entering water sources from existing
unregulated dumpsites. Reducing industrial pollution from the fertilizer plants and other
major polluters identified in the area would also be supported, as would key institutional



- 14 -
improvements and policy reforms required for long-term environmental amelioration.
Similar physical and institutional measures would be carried out in Qujing and Gejiu.
2.25  The proposed interventions in domestic and industrial wastewater treatment are
expected to reduce overall phosphorus loads to Lake Dianchi in 2010 by 50 percent,
bringing the loads to 30 percent below those in 1995, despite the substantial population
growth in the catchment over the intervening period.
2.26  The subsequent phase of environmnental actions and investments in Yunnan would
be identified from the DEAP and from a Dianchi Watershed Management Plan covering
rural areas in the catchment, including mines and the now largely unregulated TVEs. The
plan is being updated with ongoing assistance from ODA through the DRA consultant.



- 15 -
3. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The project is part of a phased development program of Yunnan Province (YP) to
improve environmental conditions and sustain urban services management. The principal
objective of the project is to provide a sustainable environmental framework for the long
term economic and social development of the Province, while providing a conducive
foundation for industrial growth. Specific objectives of the project are to: (a) strengthen
policies, regulations and institutional arrangements for pollution control, and municipal
water, wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil management; (b) support the improvement
of the lakes environment in Gejiu and Kunming in order to allow the waters to be used
for potable supply, industry or agriculture, as appropriate; (c) facilitate complementary
sustainable investments in pollution control and municipally-provided urban
environmental services; and (d) introduce a comprehensive approach to planning,
prioritization, management, and financing of urban environmental infrastructure
investments.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2   The project would comprise a mix of policy and investment initiatives. The
policy initiatives would support a stronger market orientation for municipal service
pricing, and the concerned utility enterprises and EPBs would be strengthened through
technical assistance and training. Investments would support municipal strategies for
environmental recovery and sustained use of natural resources, principally water. A
detailed description is given in Annex 2. A summary description of the five core project
components is given below.  The indicated costs include physical and price
contingencies.
(a)   Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery.  Investments would
support the Dianchi Environmental Action Plan (DEAP), and would include
control of point and nonpoint pollution in the Dianchi Lake Basin, through
improved catchment management, wastewater and stormwater collection,
treatment and disposal, including wastewater treatment in the county towns
of Chenggong and Jinning; improved collection, transport and disposal of
municipal solid waste and nightsoil; remediation of polluting practices
causing lake eutrophication; and measures to strengthen Dianchi Lake basin
management and safeguard the long-term quality of water resources; and
improvements to basin water resource allocation, to ensure that the highest
quality water is used for the most quality-sensitive uses such as for potable
supply. The latter would be supported through investments in upgraded



- 16-
trunk and distribution water mains, water treatment, and associated actions
and facilities including rural sanitation investments in the Songhuaba
Reservoir and Dianchi basin catchment areas to protect and increase the
water supply in Kunming;                         $199.6 million
(b)   Industrial Pollution Control. Direct investment financial support would
be provided to abate industrial pollution from enterprises identified in the
DEAP as most threatening to Dianchi Lake basin resources. Enterprises
have been ranked according to environmental impact. The cleanup would
focus on two fertilizer plants, found to be the top-ranked industrial polluters
in terms of phosphorus load to Dianchi Lake. Support to abate pollution
from lower-ranked enterprises requiring smaller investments would be
through an Environmental Pollution Control Subloans (EPCSL) Facility;
$34.1 million
(c)   Provincial Urban Environmental Services. Investments in catchment
management, wastewater and stormwater collection and treatment systems
for the protection of Gejiu Lake and Qujing's Nanpanjiang River; selective
investments in water supply system extensions in Qujing; and improved
collection, transport and disposal of municipal solid waste and nightsoil in
Qujing;                                           $48.6 million
(d)   Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring. Support for upgrading
and modemizing environmental management and water quality information
and monitoring systems.                            $6.2 million
(e)   Institutional Development, Training and Construction Supervision.
Strengthening provincial, municipal, project, and financial management;
construction supervision services; training in utility operations; updating of
city environmental action plans and feasibility studies; and future project
preparation.                                      $19.1 million
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                     $307.6 million
3.3   The financial, urban environment service delivery and utility management policy
initiatives would concentrate on (a) operational efficiency improvements; (b) resource
mobilization and cost recovery measures; (c) underpinning of long-term financial and
economic sustainability; and (d) industrial pollution reduction through focused time-
bound Action Plans with respect to pollution from paper, steel and pesticides. The
institutional development and training component would enhance policies and operational
experience in environmental protection and water, wastewater, municipal solid waste and
nightsoil management. Support to these initiatives has been grouped into a number of
main composite packages for the various executing agencies, covering institutional
development, financial management improvement, construction supervision and training.
The component would also support provincial and sector city agencies, master planning,
future project preparation, and other programs of assistance to be defined.



- 17 -
3.4    YP has prepared and updated a strategy and time-bound Implementation Schedule
for the Institutional Development and Training component for implementation according
to an agreed schedule. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that YP would
implement the Institutional Development and Training component in accordance with a
schedule acceptable to the Bank/IDA, and discuss and agree any revisions to the schedule
with the Bank/IDA. The signing of contracts with consulting firms for institutional
development, financial management improvement, construction supervision and sector
institutional strengthening for the executing agencies is a condition of disbursement of
loan/credit proceeds (see para. 3.25).
C. PROJECT MONITORING
3.5    Project impact would be monitored with respect to the project objectives, for
which the key indicators are shown below. The physical progress of implementation
would be monitored against the detailed schedules given in Annex 2 and summarized in
Annex 8.
Base
Objective        Indicator            Unit    CY96  CY97  CY98   CY99   CYOO   CY05
Objective A
Water Supply      Quality & quantity   %        80    80    90    90    95    95
Wastewater Management  Interception ratio  %    20    20    40    80    95    95
Connection ratio     %        30    40    55    70    80    95
Consumer Survey      %        40    40    50    60    60    70
Objective B
Lake Water Quality  Lake Dianchi improvement    Class  IV    IV    IV    III    In    II]
Aquatic life quality  Index base to be
established
Phosphorus          mgAi     0.28   0.28   0.28   0.25   0.24   0.20
Objective C
Complementary investments Achievement of DEAP    % completion    0  25    40    60    65    70
Objective D
Operational performance  Financial indicators  compliance (%)  -  70  80  90  100  100
Operational efficiency  No staff per
1,000 customers  5.0  5.0  4.8   4.6    4.5    4.4
Phosphorus removal  % phosphorus removal at  %  0      10    20    30    60    60
all STW
Institutional development  Achievement of action  %  0  30    60     90     95     100
plans
3.6    A tentative list of proposed monitoring indicators for environmental improvement
is included in Annex 9. Operational and Financial monitoring indicators for the water
and wastewater entities are discussed subsequently (para 5.14) and included in Annex 14.
The format and content of project progress reports and project impact monitoring
indicators and methodology would be discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
Parameters, baseline and targeted values would be developed by the Yunnan
Environment Project Office-YEPO (para. 4.1) and the relevant participating agencies
for review during the proposed Project Launch Workshop (see para. 3.37).
D. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
3.7    The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies and local duties and
taxes, is Y 2,966.0 million ($307.6 million). The foreign exchange component is Y 951.8



- 18-
million ($99.1 million), or about 32 percent of project costs. Local customs duties and
taxes are estimated at Y 123.2 million ($12.5 million). Land acquisition costs are
estimated at Y 158.8 million ($17.3 million), or about 6 percent of project costs. A
summary of cost estimates is given in Table 3.1 below. Interest during construction is
estimated at Y 118.6 million ($12.3 million) and the total financing required would be
Y 3,084.6 million ($319.9 million). Detailed cost estimates are provided in Annex 3.
TABLE 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
%      % Total
Y Million                       S Million            Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign    Total   Exchange   Costs
A. Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality
Recovery
Kunming Wastewater                   584.68     211.28    795.96      70.44     25.46     95.90         27        37
Kunming Water Supply                  191.41      90.74   282.15      23.06-    10.93     33.99         32        13
Kunming Solid Waste                   161.39      29.02    190.41     19.45      3.50     22.94         15         9
Small Towns                           74.09       28.54    102.63      8.93      3.44      12.37        28         5
Rural Sanitation                       12.33       2.74     15.07      1.49      0.33       1.82        18         1
Subtotal                      1,023.90     362.32  1,386.22    123.36     43.65    167.01         26        65
B. Provincial Urban Environmental
Services
Gejiu Wastewater                      38.35       16.32     54.67      4.62      1.97       6.59        30         3
Qujing Wastewater                     68.83       30.50     99.33      8.29      3.67      11.97        31         5
Qujing Water Supply                   115.58      28.08    143.66     13.93      3.38      17.31        20         7
Qujing Solid Waste                    24.82        4.77     29.59      2.99      0.57       3.57        16         1
Subtotal                        247.58      79.67   327.25      29.83      9.60      39.43         24       15
C. Industry and Environment              123.06      126.60   249.66      14.83     15.25     30.08         51        12
Pollution Control
D. Environment & Water Quality            22.50       19.52    42.02       2.71      2.35       5.06        46         2
Monitoring
E. Technical Assistance and Training      26.00      104.00    130.00      3.13     12.53      15.66        80         6
Total Baseline Costs          1,443.05     692.10  2,135.15    173.86     83.39    257.25         32       100
Physical Contingencies                   175.75      79.82    255.57     21.17       9.62     30.79         31        12
Price Contingencies                      395.33      179.92    575.25     13.42      6.13      19.55        31         8
Total Project Costs           2,014.13     951.84  2,965.97   208.45      99.14    307.59         32       120
Interest during construction La        10.61     108.00    118.61      1.10     11.20      12.30
Total Financing Required      2,024.74   1,059.84  3,084.58   209.55    110.34    319.89
la Interest during construction is based on: (i) onlending rates for projected disbursements of Loan/Credit proceeds and locally secured
loans; and (ii) payment of commitment and service charges.
3.8       Base  cost estimates  reflect preliminary  engineering  designs  and  price  levels
expected to prevail in June 1996, based on current inflation rates. The unit prices were
derived from the following sources: (a) quotations obtained from manufacturers and
suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts; and (c) construction costs
according to prices published by the Central and Yunnan Governments, all adjusted for
inflation.       Physical  contingencies  have   been   applied   to   all  components  except
environmental pollution control subloans (EPCSL). Physical contingencies of 15 percent
have been applied to base costs for most components, except for vehicles and mechanical
equipment of the solid waste and nightsoil management components, and priority water



- 19-
supply and wastewater contracts, where 10 percent has been adopted to reflect the
confidence level of the estimated costs of these components. Construction Supervision
Services costs estimated at 2.5 percent of the civil works and materials and equipment
costs of the water and wastewater component, and 1.25 percent of the civil works of the
environmental services improvements component, have been included in the project cost
estimates. Project management and engineering overhead costs of 10 percent are also
included.
3.9   Price contingencies have been applied to expenditures at projected global foreign
and local inflation rates. In view of the large variation between foreign and local price
contingency projections, the dollar/yuan exchange rate has been assumed to vary in order
to maintain purchasing power parity. The inflation rate projections used are as follows:
Parameter       1996   1 1997 1 1998    l999    2000    2001    2002
Foreign (MUV) I  1.2la     Z 2.4  1  2.4  1  2.4  1  2.4  I  2.4  1   .4
Local         l53t 1 .5  |  7.0             6.5     6.2      6.2     6.2
la One half (July to December 1996) of the annual foreign inflation rate of 2.4 percent.
/b One half (July to December 1996) of the annual local inflation rate of 10.6 percent.
E. FINANCING PLAN
3.10 The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2.
TABLE 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Source                                 Local   Foreign   Total   Percentage
Yunnan government, prefectural & municipal  154.4   11.2    165.6    51.8
governments
Industrial enterprises                   4.3    0.0        4.3      1.3
IBRD/IDA                                 50.8   99.2     150.0    46.9
Total Financing Required          209.5  110.4    319.9   100.0
3.11  China is eligible for single currency loans under the Bank's expanded program.
The Government of China and the Yunnan Provincial Government have selected LIBOR-
based US dollar single currency loan terms for the project in order to facilitate
management of the foreign exchange risk of their borrowings by more closely matching
the currency of their liabilities with that of their net trade flows, about 60 percent of
which are US dollar-denominated. The LIBOR-based product was selected in order to
preserve the full maturity of the loan, compared to the fixed-rate option that would have
resulted in a 15-year loan. The Borrower judges that it can manage any interest rate risk.



- 20 -
This loan, when added to previous single currency loans made to China in FY96, is
within the 50 percent volume guideline approved by the Bank's Board.
3.12 The IBRD loan and IDA credit would be made to the People's Republic of China.
The loan of $125 million would be for a 20-year term, including a 5-year grace period at
the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans. The IDA
credit of SDR 17.4 million ($25 million equivalent) would be for a 35-year term,
including a 10-year grace period on standard Association terms. The proceeds of the loan
and credit would be made available through YP to the municipalities on the following
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA: the loan at the standard interest rate
for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, for a 17-year period including a 5-year
grace period, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent per year, and the credit at the
Association's standard service charge for a 20-year period, including a 5-year grace
period, and a commitment charge of 0.50 percent per year. Yunnan Province, and then
the municipalities, would bear the foreign exchange risks. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations from YP that (a) it would onlend to Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer
Factory, and cause Kunming Municipality to relend to Kunming Chemical Fertilizer
Factory part of the loan/credit proceeds for the Industrial Pollution Control component,
on the following terms: at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans plus a spread of not less than 1.5 percent per year, with the enterprises
bearing the commitment charges of 0. 75 percent and the foreign exchange risks, the
maturity would be for 10 years, including a 3-year period of grace; subsidiary loan
agreements would be entered into between Yunnan and Kunming and the two enterprises;
and (b) it would cause Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing Municipalities to relend part of the
loan/credit proceeds onlent to them to their water and wastewater utility companies on
the following terms. at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans, with the entities bearing the commitment charges and the foreign
exchange risks; the maturity would be for 15 years, including a 5-year period of grace.
3.13  Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the project municipalities and
their water and wastewater utility companies, satisfactory to the BanklIDA, is a condition
of effectiveness.  A separate Project Agreement, including operational, financial and
monitoring covenants, would be executed between YP and IBRD/IDA.
3.14  About $5.0 million equivalent of the loan/credit proceeds would be onlent by YP
from a revolving credit facility (Environmental Pollution Control Subloans-EPCSL) to
participating enterprises for eligible small-scale pollution control subprojects. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that (a) YP would onlend to participating enterprises at
the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans plus a spread
of not less than 1.5 percent per year, with the enterprises bearing a commitment charge of
0.75 percent and the foreign exchange risk The maturity would be for three to five years,
including a one to two year period of grace. Subloan repayments would be recycled for
additional pollution control subprojects to the extent not needed to repay the loan to China;
and (b) YP would allocate to the account of EPCSL a total of about Y 42.0 million over the



- 21 -
three fiscal years commencing 1997, annually depositing to the Account at least Y 14
million by June 30 of each such year.
F. PROCUREMENT
3.15  Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank/IDA were
agreed upon with YP. All procurement would be undertaken in accordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines, January 1995 and revised in January 1996. Activities
would be organized through the China National Instruments International Tendering
Company (CNIITC), which has been contracted by the Yunnan Environment Project
Office (YEPO) on behalf of the implementing agencies and YP to carry out the work.
CNIITC is an experienced and competent procurement agent that is familiar with, and has
had recent and relevant experience in international competitive bidding (ICB) work on
Bank/IDA-financed projects. The tender documents to be used in the project would be
based on the current version of model bidding documents agreed between the World
Bank Group and the Government. All works contracts would be grouped whenever
practical into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $6 million or more each,
and contracts for goods shall be grouped into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more each, to attract maximum international competition. Prequalification
of bidders would be undertaken for goods contracts for treatment equipment with an
estimated value over $4.0 million equivalent each. For all contracts estimated to cost $10
million or more, invitations for prequalification or for bids would be advertised as Special
Procurement Notices published in Development Business and/or well-known technical
magazines, newspapers and trade publications of wide international circulation. Annex 4
lists the Schedule of Contract Packages and the method of procurement, and Table 3.3
summarizes the procurement categories and the expected procurement methods. The
contract packages and the method of procurement have been agreed with YEPO and the
implementing agencies.
3.16  Civil Works. Excluding the industrial pollution control revolving credit facility,
there is a total of about $154.5 million of civil works of which about $73.8 million (48
percent) would be procured using ICB procedures. Qualified domestic contractors under
ICB will be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in accordance with the
Guidelines. ICB procedures would be used for all civil works contracts of estimated value
over $6.0 million (i.e., 5 contracts). All remaining civil works are too small, scattered or
scheduled too far apart to be packaged to be of interest to foreign firms. Of the remaining
works, about $79.6 million would be awarded through national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures, acceptable to the Bank/IDA. The NCB procedures recently adopted by the
Government have been reviewed and approved by the World Bank Group. Interested
foreign bidders would be allowed to bid for NCB contracts.
3.17  Equipment and Materials. Excluding the industrial pollution control revolving
credit facility, there is a total of about $81.4 million of equipment and materials in the
project, of which about $74.4 million (92 percent) would be procured using ICB
procedures. Qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of



- 22 -
15 percent of the CIF price or customs duties and import tax payable by a nonexempt
importer, whichever is less. All equipment and materials with individual contract values of
$250,000 or more equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures. Equipment and
materials with individual contract values less than $250,000 equivalent would be awarded
using NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount of $1.5 million.
Contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate amount of about $1.5
million, would be procured through national shopping procedures with at least three price
quotations.
TABLE 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Category                            ICB        NCB        Other La    NBF lb    Total
Civil Works                            73.8       79.6        0.0        1.1      154.5
(33.2)     (35.8)      (0.0)      (0.0)     (69.0)
Equipment & Materials                  74.4        1.5        1.5        4.0       81.4
(54.6)      (1.2)     (1.2)       (0.0)     (57.0)
Industrial Pollution Control /c         0.0        0.0       10.1        0.0       10.1
(0.0)      (0.0)     (5.0)       (0.0)      (5.0)
Institutional Development & Training    0.0        0.0       12.6        0.0       12.6
(0.0)      (0.0)    (12.6)      (0.0)      (12.6)
Construction Management Services        0.0        0.0        6.4        0.0        6.4
(0.0)     (0.0)       (6.4)      (0.0)      (6.4)
Land Acquisition                        0.0        0.0        0.0       17.3       17.3
Administration & Project Management     0.0        0.0        0.0       25.3       25.3
Total                               148.2       81.1       30.6       47.7      307.6
(87.8)     (37.0)    (25.2)      (0.0)    (150.0)
La  Other procurement methods include those under EPCSL, national shopping, consultant services (recruited
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines) and training.
lb  NBF = Not Bank/1DA-financed.
/c  The Industrial Pollution Control would be disbursed through subloans of YP's EPCSL revolving credit
facility.
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IBRD/IDA.
3.18   Direct Contracting.  Direct contracting (not Bank/IDA-financed), amounting to
about $5.1 million, will be used for: (a) contracts to be made with the local power
companies to provide electricity supplies to the pump stations, buildings and facilities under
the project; (b) railway crossings; and (c) other utility services.
3.19 Industrial Pollution Control Subloans. Under this subcomponent, which would
be operated by the Yunnan Finance Bureau-YFB (see para. 4.13), no subloan will exceed
$500,000. Contracts for equipment and materials financed through subloans up to a facility
total of $10.0 million would be awarded, after solicitation and evaluation through national



- 23 -
shopping procedures with at least three written price quotations from eligible suppliers (see
Annex 12 for details of EPCSL operations). This is consistent with procedures that the
Bank Group has reviewed and found satisfactory. These contracts would be subject to
postreview by the Bank/IDA, and YEPO would maintain all relevant documents in its
records for this purpose.
3.20  Technical Assistance and Training. All consultants to be retained under the
project would be recruited in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency-
August 1981." National consultants and counterpart staff would be engaged or assigned by
the concerned agencies of Yunnan Province. Consultants would be engaged using the
Bank's Standard Formn of Contract for Consultants' Services-June 1995. Drafts of Letters
of Invitation, Terms of Reference and a short list of consultants for institutional and
financial technical assistance, construction supervision services, and sector institutional
strengthening for Packages A and B (for the Kunming Drainage Company, and the
Kunming Water Supply Company respectively) were reviewed and found satisfactory prior
to appraisal. Details of the institutional development and training component are set out in
Annex 2. The signing of contracts between YP and consulting firms for such assistance is a
condition of disbursement of loan/credit proceeds (para. 3.25). The Terms of Reference for
these consultancy services are in the Project File (Annex 16).
3.21   Review of Bid Documents and Contracts. All civil works packages (about 17
contracts, 80 percent of the works) of $2.5 million or more, and all equipment and materials
contracts (about 15 contracts, 92 percent of the equipment and materials) of $0.5 million or
more, would be subject to the Bank/IDA's normal pri-,r review, including prequalification,
notice of invitation to bid, bid documents, bid evaluation and contracts. The threshold for
prior review of contracts for consultants would be $100,000 equivalent for firms and
$50,000 for individual contracts, including the approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposal evaluation reports and contracts. Other contracts
would be subject to selective postaward review. An estimated 80 percent of the value of all
contracts proposed to be financed by the Bank/IDA would be subject to prior review.
However, all terms of reference for such contracts, any single-source selection of
consultants, assignments the Bank considers to be of a critical nature, and any amendments
to contracts that result in the contract exceeding the above-mentioned two thresholds would
require Bank/IDA prior review.
3.22  Prequalification.  The Standard Prequalification Document for the People's
Republic of China, issued by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the World Bank
Group, would be used for preparing the invitation document. YEPO and CNIITC hold
copies of this document (together with standard bidding documents for ICB and NCB
works and goods invitations).



- 24 -
G. DISBURSEMENT
3.23 The proposed IBRD loan of $125 million and IDA credit of SDR 17.4 million
($25 million equivalent) would be disbursed over a period of about six and a half years,
one year longer than the China disbursement profile for the water and sanitation sector.
The longer disbursement period for this project is considered justified given Yunnan is a
first-time borrower in the sector.
IDA Credit     Loan
Amount       Amount
Category           ($ million equiv.) ($ million)  Expenditures to be Financed (%)
Civil Works              8.3          56.0   45% of expenditures
Goods
(a) EPCSL                1.0          4.0   100% of foreign expenditures,
(b) Other                8.5          49.2   100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory), and 75% of other items
procured locally
Consultant Services      7.2          10.8   100% of expenditures
and Training
Unallocated              -             5.0
Total                25.0         125.0
3.24  To expedite disbursements, a Special Account with an authorized allocation of
$8.0 million, representing about four months' average disbursements, would be
established. It would be replenished monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial value, whichever occurs first. Disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditure (SOEs), confirmed by YEPO, for: (a) contracts
for (i) civil works valued at less than $2.5 million; and (ii) equipment and materials
costing less than $0.5 million equivalent; (b) contracts for consulting services costing less
than $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals; and
(c) training. Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by YEPO and made
available for inspection during the course of Bank/IDA supervision missions and by
external auditors. All other disbursements will be made against fully documented
expenditures. A Schedule of Disbursements is given in Annex 5. The project is expected
to be completed by December 31, 2001, and, therefore, the Loan/Credit Closing Date
would be December 31, 2002.
3.25  The approval by the Bank/IDA of (a) operational regulations governing EPCSL
processing and approvals, and (b) the execution of an acceptable financial agency
agreement between YP and a bankfor EPCSL processing (para. 4.13 and Annex 12), would



- 25 -
be conditions of disbursement for the loan/credit proceeds allocated to the Environmental
Pollution Control component. The execution of acceptable subsidiary loan agreements
between (i) Kunming and Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory, and (ii) Yunnan and
Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory (para. 3.12) would be conditions of disbursement
for the loanlcredit proceeds allocated to these investments. It will be a condition of
disbursement of the Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery component that the
Bank/IDA receive (a) copies of signed contracts, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, between YP
and consulting firms, for institutional and financial technical assistance, construction
supervision services, and sector institutional strengthening with respect to KDC and KWSC
(para. 3.20); and (b) a financial forecast of KDC's operations for fiscal year 1997,
acceptable to the Bank/IDA, together with written confirmation that all wastewater tariff
increases included in the forecast have been approved by YP (see para. 5.14).
H. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
3.26  The project entails permanent acquisition of 215 hectares of land affecting 3,090
persons in Kunming, Qujing and Gejiu municipalities and some of the smaller towns in
Yunnan province. During project preparation, surveys of affected persons and properties
were carried out by the respective municipalities/counties with the involvement of
affected persons and their representatives. In addition to permanent land acquisition,
about 100 hectares of land would need to be leased temporarily during project
construction. The project would also affect four enterprises with 70 workers. A
preliminary socioeconomic survey of the affected persons has been conducted by the
project preparation team. Detailed socioeconomic surveys of affected persons will be
carried out before the initiation of the land acquisition and resettlement program.
3.27  Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). In order to ensure mitigation of adverse impacts
related to land acquisition and to facilitate the implementation of resettlement/rehabilitation
activities as a development program, YEPO has prepared a comprehensive Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP), covering all project components. The RAP, submitted to the Bank for
review before project appraisal, has been found to be generally in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines on resettlement. It was updated during appraisal. The RAP sets out: (a)
land acquisition and resettlement policies and principles; (b) baseline surveys; (c)
description of resettlement sites; (d) resettlement institutions; (e) implementation schedule;
(f) job creation; (g) costs and budget; (h) participation of project affected persons; (i)
grievance redress; and (j) monitoring and evaluation of RAP implementation.
3.28  Resettlement Strategies. A majority of the project affected persons (2,200 out of
3,090) would be rehabilitated through land redistribution within the same village unit.
About 600 new jobs would be provided for the economic rehabilitation of the remaining
890 affected persons.  Elderly affected persons would be offered old-age pensions.
Workers in affected enterprises would be paid a transition allowance in lieu of wages until
reconstruction of the affected enterprises. Compensation for all affected assets will be paid
at their full replacement value without any allowance being made for depreciation.



- 26 -
3.29  Resettlement Costs. The cost of implementation of the RAP has been included as a
part of the project budget. The total cost of RAP implementation is estimated at Y 171
million in January 1996 prices, including physical and price contingencies.
3.30 Implementation Arrangements. A Resettlement Coordination Group (RCG),
headed by the provincial Vice-Governor and with members from all the implementing
agencies has been formed by the provincial government to oversee the implementation of
the resettlement required. YP has given overall responsibility of RAP coordination to
YEPO, while the local municipal governments/counties, would be responsible for
implementing the RAP. A Resettlement Unit within YEPO would coordinate the
implementation of the various activities under the RAP.
3.31  Implementation of the RAP will be carried out in consultation with, and with the
participation of the affected persons and their representatives. A mechanism for redress
of grievances of affected persons and avenues for appeal have been established specially
for the project.
3.32  Monitoring and evaluation of RAP implementation will be carried out both
internally and externally. Intemal monitoring will be carried out quarterly by YEPO and
the respective municipal/county governments in formats that have been agreed with the
World Bank and have been included in the RAP. Specific monitoring indicators for intemal
monitoring have also been specified. Extemal monitoring and evaluation will be carried out
by the Southwest Jiaotong University on a biannual basis until one year after the completion
of the project. Extemal monitoring would concentrate on the qualitative aspects of
monitoring based on the monitoring indicators described in the RAP. The first external
monitoring report will be submitted to the Bank for review on October 1, 1996. Each
monitoring report will be discussed by the Resettlement Coordination Group (RCG) and
each report would summarize the progress of follow-up action initiated as a result of the
previous reports.
3.33  YP submitted an updated and acceptable RAP to the Bank prior to negotiations.
The framework for land acquisition and resettlement is presented in Annex 6. During
negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom YP that it would cause YEPO, the municipal
and county governments and all other concerned agencies to (a) carry out the
resettlement and rehabilitation of affected persons in a manner and according to a plan
(the RAP) that is satisfactory to the Bank/IDA; and (b) report quarterly on the progress
in carrying out the resettlement plan using monitoring indicators satisfactory to the
Bank/lIDA.
I. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
3.34  The proposed project is classified as Category A for purposes of Environmental
Assessment (EA), principally because of the three proposed landfills and the industrial
pollution control component. In accordance with Chinese regulations a comprehensive
EA was prepared covering all project components. This EA has been reviewed by NEPA
and the Bank/IDA and found to be satisfactory. The findings of the EA are summarized



- 27 -
in Annex 7. The environmental impact of the project is, on balance, substantially positive
and the project will, in particular, result in major improvements in water quality. The
comprehensive program of removal of phosphorus from wastewater discharges to
Dianchi Lake will have substantial benefits in terms of arresting the eutrophication of
lake and permitting its sustained safe use for water supply and avoiding costly import of
water from distant catchments.
3.35  There are, however, some negative impacts that require mitigation. In particular,
the proposed landfill sites are to be lined and equipped with leachate collection systems.
Landfill gas will be collected and flared for safety reasons and to convert methane, a potent
greenhouse gas, to carbon dioxide. Appropriate arrangements have been made for the
beneficial use, wherever possible, of construction spoil and for the disposal of sludge from
wastewater treatment. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from YP that it
would carry out, or would cause to be carried out, in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank/lIDA, the mitigation plans specified in the environmental assessment (EA).
J. PROJECT REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
3.36  The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 8. Reports on
project progress based on agreed monitoring indicators would be prepared by each
implementing agency and consolidated by YEPO, then sent to the Bank/lIDA by the thirtieth
day of January, April, July and October of each year, commencing in July 1996.
Assurances to that effect were obtained during negotiations. The last progress report of
each year would include the latest project cost estimate and financing plan for the
following year, including  YP' draft budget for local counlerpart funds.   An
implementation completion report, reviewing the planned objectives and the achievements
of the project, including costs and benefits derived, and performance and contribution of all
parties associated with project execution, would be prepared by YP and submitted to the
Bank/IDA within six months of the Closing Date.
3.37  To facilitate implementation, a Project Launch Workshop would be held in late
1996. Project supervision would monitor impact with respect to the objectives (para. 3.5),
and focus on key sector issues such as utility pricing and environmental regulatory
effectiveness. Bank Group experience with supervision of the ongoing Urban Infrastructure
and Environment Project in Liaoning Province, which, like the proposed project, are
multicity projects, suggests that Bank/IDA supervision would require about 95 staff-weeks
over the life of the project, of which about 25 staff-weeks would be at headquarters for the
review of progress and audit reports, procurement actions and correspondence, etc., and 70
staff-weeks would be in the field. More intensive supervision would be required during the
first three years of the project, during which time the technical assistance would be made
operational and many procurement contracts would have been tendered, evaluated and
awarded. Supervision would be provided by environmental engineering and financial staff,
as well as other specialists, as needed. The Project Supervision Plan is shown in Annex 10.
3.38  A mid-term (mid-1999) review would be held to assess critically the progress in
implementation of the various components of the project. A key issue for the review would



- 28 -
be the possible reallocation of loan/credit proceeds from underperforming municipalities to
better performing municipalities, as an incentive for strong municipal performance. The
mid-term review mission would pay particular attention to utility tariffs, environmental
regulation, and associated policy issues critical to project and sector success. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a mid-term review of project progress would
be undertaken by June 30, 1999, and the agreed recommendations implemented



- 29 -
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.1   A Leading Group, headed by a Vice Govemor, was set up to guide and give
policy direction for the preparation, and subsequently, implementation of the proposed
Yunnan Environment Project (YEP). Members of the Group include representatives from
the Yunnan Planning Commission, Yunnan Construction Commission, Yunnan Finance
Bureau, Yunnan Economy and Trade Commission, Yunnan Environmental Protection
Bureau, Yunnan Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation Department, People's
Construction Bank of China, Yunnan Branch, and cadres from the Kunming Municipal
Government. The Leading Group designated the Yunnan Environmental Protection
Bureau (YEPB) as the agency responsible for managing the project. This Bureau
organized and staffed the Yunnan Environment Project Office (YEPO) to prepare and
execute the project, including the supervision and monitoring of contracts, maintenance
of project records, and the submission of progress reports to the Bank (para. 3.36).
Leading Groups were also set up in each of the project municipalities of Gejiu, Kunming
and Qujing, under which municipal project offices were established. During project
preparation, YEPO and the municipal project offices received regular policy guidance
from their respective leading groups. The municipal project offices in tum created and
staffed subproject offices in each of the implementing agencies listed in Table 4.1 below.
4.2   YEPO, which has provided functional guidance to the municipal project offices, has
interacted well with them and with its consultants and design institutes, expedited resources
to undertake preparation, and arranged for the project preparation work to be completed to
the satisfaction of YP and the Bank/IDA. YEPO would have the following responsibilities
during project implementation:
(a)   overall project coordination, macro-level project management and
monitoring;
(b)   annual budget preparation;
(c)   project-wide quality assurance;
(d)   progress reporting to YP and the Bank/IDA, including cost management,
project impact and environmental improvement assessment;
(e)   interagency coordination and procurement support; and
(f)   sectoral training facilitation.



- 30-
4.3     To enable YEPO  to undertake this work effectively, it has been strengthened, and
the personnel skill mix adjusted to reflect the needs of the implementation and construction
phase of the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom YP that YEPO
and the participating municipalities' project offices would be maintained throughout
implementation with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, with
competent staff in adequate numbers.
B. IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
4.4     The institutions designated by YP and its municipal governments to implement, and
finance, the various components of the project are listed in Table 4.1.
TABLE 4.1: IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Project Component                Implementing Agency                             Onlending Agency
Gejiu
Wastewater                       Gejiu Water Supply & Drainage Company          Gejiu Municipality
Kunming
Water Supply                     Kunming Water Supply Company                   Kunming Municipality
Wastewater                       Kunming Drainage Company                       Kunming Municipality
Solid Waste and Nightsoil        Kunming Appearance Bureau                      Kunming Municipality
Qujing
Water Supply/Wastewater          Qujing Water Supply & Drainage Company         Qujing Municipality
Solid Waste and Nightsoil        Qujing Maintenance Section                     Qujing Municipality
Industrial Pollution Control
Enterprises                     Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory            Kunming Municipality
Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory           Yunnan Province
Subloans                        Yunnan Finance Bureau                          Yunnan Province
Smal Towns & Rural Sanitation    The Chenggong County Urban Construction,      Kunming Municipality
Environmental Protection and Land Administration
Bureau
The Jinning County Urban Construction and Land
Administration Bureau
The soil and fertilizer station of Kunming Municipal
Agricultural Bureau
Environmental Monitoring         Yunnan Provincial, Prefectural and Municipal   Yunnan Province and
Governments                                    benefiting prefectures
and municipalities
Technical Assistance and Training  Yunnan Provincial Govemment                  Yunnan Province
4.5     Provincial and Municipal Institutions. YP is headed by a govemor assisted by
six vice-govemors, who oversee several commissions and/or departments. Various
provincial commissions, departments and bureaus provide supervision and guidance to
the municipalities on matters relating to infrastructure, planning, development and
operation, including environmental protection works. Organization charts of YP and the
interrelationship of the project implementing agencies with the provincial government are
given in Annex I11.



- 31 -
4.6   The organization of the municipal governments of Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing is
similar.  Municipal affairs are overseen by the municipal economic and planning
commissions, and municipal urban and rural construction commissions.  The latter
commissions supervise a number of bureaus which are responsible for the physical
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of urban infrastructure, and for
environmental protection. In addition, several bureaus concerned with urban infrastructure
report directly to the office of the mayor. These include the Finance Bureau, the Water
Conservancy Bureau, the Bureau of Public Health and Public Security Bureau.
4.7   As part of China's and Yunnan's policy of reforms in the public utilities sector, the
participating municipalities established self-accounting, and self-funding state-owned
enterprises to implement the wastewater components of the project (para. 4. 10). The water
supply components would be implemented by the municipalities' water supply agencies
established earlier. Prior to negotiations, the Bank/IDA received (a) conformed copies of
the charters, and (b) business licenses of these enterprises and the Kunming Chemical
Fertilizer Factory and the Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory. Solid waste and nightsoil
management subcomponents would be implemented, operated and maintained by the
municipalities' Sanitation Departments/Divisions.
4.8   Water Supply. The Kunming Water Supply Company (KWSC) was established in
1915 as a financially autonomous enterprise. It reports to the Kunming Public Utilities
Bureau. KWSC employs a staff of 866 who are responsible for construction management,
production, operation and maintenance, consumer service and administration of the
Kunming water supply system. The Gejiu Water Supply Company and the Qujing Water
Supply Company were both established in 1994 and report to their respective Construction
Commissions. Prior to 1994, water supply operations in these cities were provided by the
water sections of their municipal facilities management divisions (MFMDs), which reported
to the their respective Urban and Rural Construction Bureaus (URCB) within the municipal
construction commissions.
4.9   Wastewater. Until the creation of wastewater entities in Gejiu and Qujing (para.
4.10), wastewater collection, treatment and disposal were generally provided by the
sewerage sections of MFMDs, which are also responsible for the operation and
maintenance of roads, bridges, parks and street lighting. The Kunming Drainage Company
was formed from four organizations (the tariff, sewerage treatment preparation, sewerage
treatment management, and drainage preparation departments) of the Kunming Public
Utilities Bureau. The sewerage sections did not operate on a financially autonomous basis,
transferring, instead, all tariff revenue collections to the URCB. Funds were consolidated at
the URCB level and allocated to the various sections for operation, maintenance and capital
works, on the basis of budgets prepared and submitted by the sections. The wastewater
entities created for the project will account for their own capital and operating costs, and
existing wastewater assets have already been transferred to the entities' books. While the
new entities in Gejiu and Qujing are still required to remit their revenues to their respective
municipal governments, such funds are earmarked to finance the operation and maintenance
of the sewerage facilities, and service debt. The remitted revenues, therefore, are returned



- 32 -
in their entirety to the entities. While less desirable than full autonomy, some water
companies function efficiently under such a system. The water and wastewater companies
of Kunming, however, retain their revenues to finance their operations. Staff from the
existing sewerage sections in the three project cities were transferred to the recently-formed
wastewater entities and have the skills needed to maintain and operate them, with training
provided under the project. Small towns and villages' investments in pollution control
measures in the Dianchi Lake Basin would continue to be provided and maintained by the
government departments responsible for such services.
4.10  Kunming Municipality established the Kunming Drainage Company (KDC) in 1994
as a self-accounting, self-funding state-owned enterprise to implement its wastewater
component. It officially started operations in May 1995. KDC reports to the Kunming
Public Utilities Bureau. It has a sanctioned staff strength of 502, of which about 392 are
currently on the payroll, responsible for construction management, collection, treatment and
disposal of wastewater and stormwater, operation and maintenance, consumer service and
administration. In June 1995, Gejiu established a self-accounting, self-funding wastewater
unit within the Gejiu Water Supply Company which then became the Gejiu Water Supply
and Drainage Company (GWSDC). The present total staff strength of the company is about
160, with 100 assigned to water supply, 40 to wastewater, and 20 to joint administration.
They are responsible for water, wastewater and drainage construction management, water
supply production and distribution, wastewater and stormwater collection, treatment and
disposal, operation and maintenance, consumer service and administration. In January
1996, Qujing Municipality established a similar wastewater unit within the Qujing Water
Supply Company, the new company-The Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company
(QWSDC)-having similar responsibilities to those of GWSDC. The sanctioned staff
strength of the company is about 177, of which about 157 are currently on the payroll.
4.11  Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management. Domestic, municipal and nightsoil
collection and disposal are the responsibility of municipal appearance/maintenance
(sanitation) departments. Domestic waste and nightsoil collections are usually performed
by subdistrict street teams who collect the waste from the residential units and transfer it,
usually by handcart, to transfer stations around the cities. From there it is collected by the
sanitation departments and disposed of at landfills or dumping grounds, or, in the case of
nightsoil, to storage tanks, into the sewerage system, or to farmers. Neighborhood
committees collect fees to offset collection costs. Other domestic costs are covered by a flat
tax per employee and through general government revenues.  Industrial (including
hazardous/toxic) and commercial wastes are disposed of by the enterprises themselves, or
by the sanitation departments, against payment of fees or service charges. Infectious
hospital waste is normally incinerated by the hospitals themselves; the domestic hospital
waste is disposed of in the same manner as other domestic waste. Recycling is practiced
widely in all the project cities. The recyclable substances are mainly ferrous and nonferrous
metals, rubber, plastic, glass, paper and textiles; these are usually brought to municipal-run
collection points by the waste producers themselves, and by informal sector operators. The
latter collect material from producers, from collection points, transfer stations or the



- 33 -
disposal sites. Some of the recyclable materials collected by the informal sector are sold
directly to enterprises.
4.12  Industrial Pollution Control. The Industrial Pollution Control (IPC) component
relies on a three part strategy: (a) direct onlending to clean up two fertilizer plants (the
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory and the Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory) that
are major polluters; (b) lending for a number of smaller pollution control investments
through an Environmental Pollution Control Subloans (EPCSL) Facility, with initial capital
equivalent of Y 84 million (about $10 million), comprising equal amounts of Bank/IDA and
local funds; and (c) instituting time-bound environmental management improvement action
plans for pollution reduction measures at the Kunming Iron and Steel Plant and the Yunfeng
Paper Mill, financed through non-Bank sources, as well as ceasing operations in the
manufacture and handling of pesticides and other toxic materials at the Kunming Pesticide
Plant by not later than June 30, 1999, to protect municipal wastewater treatment facilities.
The IPC component, including the adverse impact the above enterprises have on the
environment, is described in detail in Annex 12. During negotiations, assurances were
obtainedfrom YP that it would carry out, or cause to be carried out, time-bound action
plans for environmental management improvements at Kunming Iron and Steel Plant and
at Yunfeng Paper Mill. Assurances were also obtained from YP that it would cause the
Kunming Pesticide Plant to implement a time-bound environmental management action
plan.
4.13  Environmental Pollution Control Subloans. Environmental Pollution Control
Subloans (EPCSL) will be operated by YFB as a government facility, although with
segregated accounting and special operating procedures. The management and operation of
EPCSL are summarized in Annex 12. The purpose of EPCSL will be to provide funds for
environrnental pollution control, targeted to small-scale industries.  Project selection,
appraisal, both technical and financial, and environmental and resettlement criteria have
been proposed and generally follow those of similar funds in operation elsewhere in China.
Projects will be selected according to cost effectiveness and financial viability, with the first
three appraisals and all appraisals for proposed subloans of over $300,000 receiving ex-ante
review by the Bank/IDA and the remainder subject to ex-post review. The principal
funding sources for EPCSL will be funds allocated by YP (para. 3.14), and the proceeds of
the Loan/Credit and recycling of loan and interest payments.
4.14  Institutional Development and Training. As the above-mentioned wastewater
entities have been created only recently and the solid waste bureaus lack financial
management tools, the project's institutional development and training component has been
designed specifically to address the accounting, management information, financial
management, utility pricing, technical requirements and training needs of the implementing
entities.



- 34 -
C. STATUS OF ENGINEERING
4.15 Project preparation and design work has been undertaken jointly by international
and local consultants and design bureaus, and is well advanced. Final design and the
preparation of draft tender documents for the following contracts representing
approximately 20 percent of the municipal services investments was completed prior to
appraisal. The remaining final design and bidding documents preparation will continue
during the period prior to effectiveness.
Contract
Number                            Description and Contract Type
DBM/2. 1     Kunming Sewerage Treatment Works Nos. 4B & 5 (Civil Works)
DBM/20. 1    Nos. 4B & 5 (Mechanical and Electrical)
DBMJ3.1      Kunming Water Supply Raw Water Pipelines (Civil Works)
DBM/4.2      Beijiaochang Water Treatment Works and Reservoir (Civil Works)
DBM/22.2    Beijiaochang Water Treatment Works and Reservoir (Mechanical and Electrical)
DBM/5.2      Kunming East Landfill (Civil Works)
DBM/25.1    Solid Waste Vehicles and Equipment (Mechanical and Electrical)



- 35 -
5. FINANCE
A. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
5.1   Since 1978, Chinese economic reforms have evolved gradually toward an
increasingly decentralized financial system in China. Most industrial production and
prices have become free of government control, and enterprises have to purchase most of
their inputs at market prices. Enterprise reform has become a high priority of the
Government. In this connection, the guiding principles of the recently promulgated
"regulations on transforming the management mechanisms of state-owned industrial
enterprises" are to separate government administration from enterprise management,
increase the autonomy and accountability of state-owned enterprises, and increase
competition and market-orientation. The reform efforts to improve economic policies
and enterprise efficiencies are essential for sustaining both economic development and
environmental protection in the longer run.
5.2   In order for the enterprises to assume their increased responsibilities efficiently and
effectively, the strengthening of their financial management is essential. Toward this end,
the proposed project would support the applications of modern management techniques and
human resource development for the utility companies.
B. ACCOUNTING
5.3   Different accounting systems are used by enterprises (autonomous units),
construction units (which execute investment projects) and local government departments,
in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Ministry of Finance.
5.4   Enterprise Accounting. All the state-owned enterprises in China follow a unified
enterprise accounting system. The accounting framework was developed in the context of a
highly centralized planned economy. With a view to complementing the ongoing efforts to
deepen reforms in the financial sector and enterprise management, the accounting system in
China needed modernization to permit satisfactory financial management in an increasingly
decentralized and market-oriented environment. As a first step, the general principles of
enterprise (the term to include public utilities such as water, sewerage, and district heating
companies) accounting were revised by the Ministry of Finance from July 1, 1993 to be
more consistent with internationally generally accepted accounting practice. As part of the
reforms, enterprises are required to produce five reports for submission to Government:
balance sheet, income statement, source and application of funds, profit distribution, and
details of main business. The first two reports are required monthly, the remainder on an
annual basis. All enterprise implementing agencies included in the project will be
following the new accounting and reporting formats.



- 36 -
5.5   Government Accounting. The regular government department accounts reflect
expenditures incurred against budget allocations by YP or its municipal governments.
Accounting is handled in a decentralized manner through transfers to subunits from which
actual expenditures are made and recorded on a cash basis. Accounts are kept at all levels,
and each subunit reflects in its accounts the budget allocation it receives from the unit
above.
5.6   Project Accounts.  Project accounts would be maintained by YEPO, the
environmental sanitation departments of Kunming and Qujing, and for small towns and
rural sanitation component in accordance with the State Construction Unit Accounting
System. This system prescribes generally accepted accounting practices, including double-
entry bookkeeping, subsidiary ledger accounting, and rules for capitalizing and expending
various items of expenditure. It also sets out detailed accounting definitions for capital
works, cash control, receivables and payables. In addition, it identifies a number of basic
monthly, quarterly and annual reporting formats, including funds flow statements and
balance sheets. The construction accounting system is comprehensive, and is adequate for
the proposed project. Project-related expenditures incurred by enterprises (e.g., the water
and wastewater entities and the industries to be included in the industrial pollution control
component), would be reflected within their respective enterprise accounting systems.
C. AUDITS
5.7   As with other Bank/IDA-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investrnent Audit
Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA), established in 1983, would have overall
responsibility for auditing accounts concerning the project. The actual auditing work will
be conducted by the Yunnan Provincial Audit Department under SAA's supervision. This
arrangement is satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
following annual audits would be submitted to the Bank/IDA within six months after the end
of the financial year. (a) audit of (i) the project accounts maintained by YEPO, (ii) the
environmental sanitation departments of Kunming and Qujing, and (iii) the bureaus
responsible for the Jinning and Chenggong components, (b) audit of the Special Account;
(c) audit of Statements of Expenditure (SOE); and (d) audits of the financial statements of
(i) KWSC, (ii) KDC, (iii) QWSDC, (iv) GWSDC, and (v) EPCSL. Understandings were
obtained during negotiations that audit reports would include opinions on whether
implementing agencies were in compliance with their respective financial covenants, and
whether these agencies had taken out adequate insurance on goods and works financed
from loan/credit proceeds. The Bank/IDA would expect to receive the first such audit
reports by June 30, 1998, covering project implementation activities commencing in fiscal
year 1997.
D. PROVINCIAL FINANCE
5.8   The Yunnan Provincial Government has two types of finance, on-budgetary and off-
budgetary. On-budgetary revenues are provided through taxes, the base and rate of which
are set by the Central Government. The Central Government directly controls the single
largest tax source-the value-added tax-receipts from which are shared with local



- 37-
government. A variety of other taxes are collected and used directly by local government.
Most off-budgetary revenues consist of special fees paid by enterprises, and fees and
charges relating to construction activities. These are used for capital expenditures. On-
budgetary and off-budgetary accounts are not consolidated. While information on off-
budgetary revenues and expenditures is confidential, and was not, therefore, provided to the
Bank/IDA, they are said to be at least as large as the on-budgetary data.
5.9   YP will recover the debt associated with the project as it is being passed on to the
municipalities and industrial enterprises. YP will monitor municipal finances to assure that
the municipalities and their respective agencies meet their debt service obligations. Should
the municipalities and their subborrowers be unable to fulfill their obligations, YP would
have no difficulty in covering debt service through its own resources, as the debt service
represented by the project is small compared to total provincial budgetary expenditures.
Provincial fiscal budgetary revenues and expenditures totaled about Y 23.8 billion ($2.8
billion) and Y 22.9 billion ($2.7 billion), respectively, in 1994. Between 1992 and 1994,
revenues and expenditures increased on average by about 65 and 63 percent a year in
current terms, respectively. Revenues are derived mainly from taxes on industry and
commerce, which have been remitted by the municipalities. Revenues and expenditures are
projected to grow between 7 and 10 percent a year in real terms during the project period.
Projected receipts and expenditures for Yunnan Province and the participating prefectures,
municipalities and counties are provided in the report on Provincial, Prefectural, Municipal
and County Financial Projections for Fiscal Year 1992 to 2005 (on-budget), which is
included in the Project File (AnnexJ16).
E. PREFECTURAL FINANCE
5.10  There are 17 prefectures in Yunnan Province. They form an intermediate layer of
government between the provincial and municipal administrations, except in the case of
Kunming which reports directly to YP. The municipalities of Gejiu and Qujing report
through Honghe and Qujing Prefectures, respectively.
5.11  Prefectures have similar sources of receipts and expenditures as the provincial and
municipal levels of government. In 1994, the receipts and expenditures of Honghe and
Qujing Prefectures totaled about Y 1.1 and Y 1.3 billion each, respectively. Each Prefecture
will contribute about 25 percent of the counterpart funding requirements of the proposed
project investments of Gejiu and Qujing. Each would be liable for repayment of the
proceeds of the Loan/Credit onlent to the municipalities in the event the latter defaulted on
their obligations.
F. MUNICIPAL FINANCE
5.12 YP will, through the municipalities of Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing, provide all
funding not met by (a) the proceeds of the Bank Loan and IDA Credit, (b) prefectural
contributions, (c) municipal contributions, and (d) funds generated internally by the
implementing agencies. During project implementation, the financial projections show that
these requirements would be of the order of Y 80 million for Gejiu, Y 1,130 million for
Kunming, and Y 335 million for Qujing. The municipalities, like YP, have two sources of



- 38 -
finance, on-budgetary and off-budgetary. The off-budget details are confidential, and were
not, therefore, provided to the Bank/IDA. The municipal funding requirements would come
from many more sources than municipal on-budget revenue. The Yunnan Finance Bureau
(YFB) has independently assessed the municipalities' ability to generate the required
counterpart funds from assured sources.
5.13  Summarized historical and projected on-budget revenue and expenditure statements
of the municipalities of Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing for the period 1994-2002 are given in
Annex 13, together with assumptions to the projections. Average annual project-related
expenditures comprise between about 3 to 46 percent of the municipalities' annual total on-
budget expenditures.
G. PUBLIC UTILITIES
5.14 The salient features of the future finances of (a) Kunming Water Supply Company
(KWSC), (b) Qujing Municipal Water Supply unit, (c) Gejiu Municipal Drainage unit,
(d) Kunming Drainage Company (KDC), and (e) Qujing Municipal Wastewater unit, based
on the indices and exchange rates mentioned in paras. 3.9, are highlighted in Tables 5.2 and
5.3. The assumptions used in the financial projections, and detailed operational and
financial monitoring indicators are included in Annex 14.  The projected financial
statements are provided in the Report on Water and Wastewater Companies' Operational
and Financial Projections 1993-2002 which is included in the Project File (Annex 16).
Prior to appraisal, Gejiu and Qujing implemented revised wastewater tariffs, and Kunming
and Qujing implemented revised water supply tariffs. Implementation of a wastewater
tariff of no less than Y 0. 35/m3 by KDC is a condition of effectiveness of the loan/credit. It
will be a condition of disbursement of the Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery
component that the BanklIDA receive (a) afinancialforecast relating to KDC's operations
for fiscal year 1997, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, showing that KDC will meet the same
financial performance targets required of it for fiscal year 1998 (para. 5.21), except that its
operating revenues in fiscal year 1997 can be defined as revenues from operational and
nonoperational sources; and (b) written confirmation that all wastewater tariff increases
included in the forecast referred to above have been approved by YP. The previous and
revised (where applicable) tariffs are set out in Table 5.1 below.
TABLE 5.1: WATER AND WASTEWATER AVERAGE TARIFFS
Utility              Previous Tariffs          Revised Tariffs
Gejiu Wastewater /a      Y 0.30/m 3                            Y 0.373
Kunming Water            Y 0.33/m3                             Y 0.63/mi3
Kunming Wastewater lb     Y 0.08/m3 (industry only)    (proposed)  Y 0.35/n3i
Qujing Water             Y 0.65/mi3                            Y 0.93m
Qujing Wastewater La     Y 0.00                                Y 0.45/mi3
Za Based on 80 percent of water consumption.
Z2 Based on 100 percent of water consunption of domestic and commercial users, with an
overall average of about 80 percent.



- 39 -
Water Supply Agencies
5.15 Kunming Water Supply Company. KWSC posted modest losses between 1993
and 1995, principally because it had not been permitted to adjust its tariffs since February
1993. As a condition of appraisal, enhanced tariffs went into effect on January 1, 1996.
The financial objectives set for KWSC  by YP and Kunming Municipal Government
(KMG) are for it to make reasonable contributions to its capital investment program, after
meeting its cash expenses. Projections made up to the year 2002 show that KWSC would
post surpluses if it is permitted to maintain the relatively high tariff recently put in place as a
condition of appraisal.
5.16   Qujing Water Supply Unit. Prior to the establishment of the Qujing Water Supply
Company in 1995, the departmental water supply operation had managed to generate
sufficient revenues to cover approximately the operations and maintenance costs. However,
as is the practice in departnental operations, no provision for depreciation was made. Had
depreciation been included, the operation would have run at a loss. As a condition of
appraisal, Qujing revised its water tariffs, increasing them by an average of 43 percent.
TABLE 5.2: KEY WATER SUPPLY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INDICATORS
(Y million, unless noted; current prices)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Kunming Water Supply Company
Production capacity (million m3)    169    175    175    175    212    237    237    274    274
Water Sales (million m)         150    154    154    154    178    182    205    209    213
Operating Revenue              51.5   60.8  109.4  109.4  126.4  148.9  177.4  192.0  207.8
Operating Expense L            41.1   47.8   60.2   67.0   79.6   86.8   93.1   94.8   96.9
Net Income                        0  -10.5    7.9    3.5    4.0   10.5   12.4   10.1    9.2
Average Tariff (Yuan per m )   0.34   0.34   0.59   0.59   0.59   0.67   0.72   0.76   0.81
Operating Ratio (%)            1.01   1.14   0.86   0.91   0.91   0.86   0.82   0.80   0.79
Capital Expenditures           48.1      0    5.4   33.7   80.8  105.8   84.9   64.9   19.9
% Contribution to Investment   60.8   81.6   84.3   55.7   28.6   21.0   27.4   54.5   77.7
Debt Service Coverage (times)  N/A    N/A   16.2   10.0    6.4    5.4    5.2    1.4    1.6
Qujing Municipal Water Supply Unit
Production capacity (million m3)    33  33     33     33      33     44     44      44     44
Water Sales (million m)          18    22      22     23      24     25     25      26     26
Operating Revenue               7.2    9.9   19.9   24.8   32.2   35.7   38.4   41.6   45.2
OperatingExpensela              5.3    6.5    8.2    9.2   10.1   16.8   18.0   19.3   20.7
Net Income                      0.3    0.2    4.4    6.0    8.9    5.3    2.7        0    -2.5
Average Tariff (Yuan per m3)   0.40   0.42   0.77   0.93   1.16   1.23   1.31   1.39   1.48
Operating Ratio (%)            0.96   0.99  '0.75   0.68   0.61   0.71   0.78   0.87   0.95
Capital Expenditures              -      -       -   20.6   78.0   60.7   22.2   22.4        -
% Contribution to Investment      -      -   79.4   50.4   20.7   20.9   33.4   63.2   83.8
Debt Service Coverage (times)     -      -       -    9.7    6.4    3.0    2.9    3.4    1.7
La Excludes depreciation.



- 40 -
5.17  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, commencing in fiscal year
1997, YP would cause KWSC to (a) generate revenues from its water supply operations
sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance costs (before depreciation), increases in
working capital, debt service, and 20 percent of the average capital expenditures made in a
three-year period (the year preceding the reference year, the reference year itself, and the
year after the reference year); and (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's
agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that it would have a debt service coverage
of at least 1.3 times.
5.18 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, commencing with Fiscal Year
1997, YP would cause QWSDC to (a) produce revenues from its water supply operations
sufficient to cover its operations and maintenance costs (including depreciation), and the
amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation; and
(b) incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's agreement, unless a reasonable
forecast shows that it would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
Wastewater Agencies
5.19  As the wastewater agencies, which evolved out of the cities' departmental
wastewater operations, were established only in the latter phases of the project preparation
cycle, no assessment of their past performance was possible. Based on the limited data
available, it was determined that departmental wastewater operations were not able to meet
their operating expenses, excluding depreciation, in 1994.  As is the practice in
departmental operations, no provision for depreciation was made. Had depreciation charges
been included, their operations would have run at a greater loss. As no departmental
revenue data was made available, the financial projections were developed from the net
historical value of investments made in the wastewater sector. The financial objective set
by YP for the newly-established wastewater entities is to achieve full cost recovery, and, if
possible, generate some funds for future capital investment.
5.20 Prior to appraisal, the Bank/IDA received written confirnation from YP of the
implementation of enhanced wastewater tariffs in Gejiu and Qujing; the former with effect
from August 1995, and the latter, from February 1996. The salient features of the future
finances of (a) the drainage units of (i) Gejiu Water Supply and Drainage Company; and
(ii) Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company; and (b) Kunming Drainage Company are
highlighted in Table 5.3 below. The assumptions used in the financial projections and
detailed operational and financial monitoring indicators are included in Annex 14.
5.21  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that YP would cause the wastewater
entities of GWSDC, QWSDC, and KDC, commencing with fiscal year 1997 in the case of
GWSDC and QWSDC, and fiscal year 1998 in the case of KDC, to (a) produce revenues
from their wastewater operations sufficient to cover their operations and maintenance costs
(including depreciation), and the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the
provision for depreciation; and (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank Group's
agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that the entities would have a debt service



- 41 -
coverage of at least 1.3 times. An understanding was obtained during negotiations that YP
would arrange for the municipalities of Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing to transfer to their
respective wastewater companies, quarterly, one quarter of the wastewater companies'
annual estimates of their stormwater operations and maintenance costs..
TABLE 5.3: KEY WASTEWATER FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INDICATORS
(Y million, unless noted; current prices)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Gejlu Municipal Drainage Unit
Wastewater Total (MIn3)           -    5.6    9.7    9.9    9.9    9.9   11.1   11.1   11.1
Water Consumption (4m)                 9.3    9.3    9.3    9.3    9.3   10.5   10.5   10.5
Wastewater Billed (m)             -    5.6    7.4    8.2    8.2    8.2    9.2    9.2    9.2
Operating Revenue                 -    0.9    2.7    4.1    7.0    8.1    9.4   10.0   12.0
Operating Expense Za              -    0.1    0.4    0.4    6.1    6.5    7.1    7.6    7.8
Net Income                        -    0.3    1.9    2.3    0.1    0.6    0.4   -0.1    1.1
Average Tariff (Yuan per M3)          0.16   0.37   0.50   0.85   0.98    1.02   1.08   1.30
Capital Expenditures              -      -    4.8   26.0   35.0   16.9    5.7    1.5         -
Operating Ratio (%)               -   0.62   0.32   0.23   0.79   0.74   0.78   0.84   0.79
Debt Service Coverage (times)     -      -       -    5.2    1.4    1.6    1.9    2.0    1.5
Kunming Drainage Company
Wastewater Total     ) 3                 -    157    157    178    182    199    204    208
WaterConsUmption*m)                      -    154    154    177    182    201    206    211
WastewaterBilled(m)               -      -    138    148    171    175    194    199    204
OperatingRevenue                  -      -   24.2   90.2  124.4  151.6  182.5  205.0  211.6
Operating Expense La              -      -   36.3   53.3   57.0  123.9  131.5  139.7  148.4
Net Income                        -      -  -31.6   15.0   39.7  -17.1  -27.3  -31.7  -20.5
Average Tariff (Yuan per 3)       -      -   0.18   0.61   0.73   0.86   0.94   1.03   1.09
Capital Expenditures                     -       -  105.6  353.7  496.2  349.3  139.1   21.8
Operating Ratio (%)               -      -   2.00   0.79   0.62   0.98    1.00   1.01   0.98
Debt Service Coverage (times)     -      -       -   19.4    8.1    2.7    3.0    3.3    1.8
3Qujing Municipal Wastewater Unit
Wastewater Total (Mm3) 3          -   16.4   21.9   22.9   23.8   24.6   25.3   26.0   26.7
Water Consumption (mA)            -   20.6   21.5   22.4   23.3   24.2   24.9   25.6   26.2
Wastewater Billed (m)                  16.4   17.2   17.2   19.3   20.1   20.7   21.3   21.9
Operating Revenue                 -      -    7.4    8.3    9.3   10.3   11.2   13.2   14.4
Operating Expense la              -    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3    4.3    4.6    4.8
Net Income                        -   -1.5    5.6    5.9    6.6    6.6       0    -2.7   -4.7
Average Tariff (Yuan per M3)             -   0.43   0.45   0.48   0.51   0.54   0.66   0.66
Capital Expenditures              -      -       -    9.3   10.3   54.3   80.7   38.7   15.7
Operating Ratio (%/6)             -   7.74   0.25   0.22   0.20   0.18   0.73   0.93    1.07
Debt Service Coverage (times)     -      -       -   38.0   21.1    6.7    2.6    2.6    1.3
la Excludes depreciation.
5.22 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that KWSC, QWSDC, KDC and the
wastewater unit of Gejiu would prepare, before September 30, 1997, and in each of the
following fiscal years, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank/lIDA, (a) to review whether they
would meet the covenanted requirements set forth above in such year and the following
fiscal year; and (b) to furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank/IDA. If any such
review would show that a water and wastewater entity would not meet the requirements set
out above, the entity would take all necessary measures, including adjustments to the
structure of its tariffs and charges, in order to meet the requirements.



- 42 -
H. SOLID WASTE AND NIGHTSOIL MANAGEMENT
5.23  These services are municipal environmental services that have traditionally been
funded from the general revenues of local governments. However, where individual users
of the services have been identified, local governments have, as a policy matter, charged
such users for the services provided. In Kunming and Qujing, only large industries are
currently paying charges for solid waste disposal. Tariff rates are not published and
charging appears to be based on negotiation. As a result, only a small part of the costs of
providing the service is covered.
5.24  Kunming and Qujing have considered increasing their fees and charges, and have
already approved higher charges for some parts of the services. The cost recovery
objectives for solid waste and nightsoil services for Kunming and Qujing are to recover the
full unit cost of collection and disposal where user identification and billing is economically
feasible. The balance of the cost for providing these services would be met from the
general revenues of the municipality.
5.25   During the implementation phase of this component the cities have indicated that
they anticipate charging fees toward meeting their operating costs. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from YP that it would ensure that Kunming and Qujing
Municipalities would each: (a) not later than July 1, 1997, complete a study of the fees and
user charges needed for the recovery of the full costs of providing solid waste collection
and disposal services to industrial and commercial users; the report of that study shall
include a detailed, time-bound action plan, acceptable to the BanklIDA, enabling such
recovery as of January 1, 1998; and (b) thereafter implement said action plan taking into
account the BanklIDA 's comments thereon.
5.26  As these services have been decentralized to the district and subdistrict levels, and
because the accounting systems, particularly at the lower levels, are weak, accurate costs of
providing these services have been difficult to determine. The project, therefore, includes
technical assistance and training to help develop appropriate accounting, including unit cost
accounting, and management information systems for determining accurate unit costs of the
services at the various stages, e.g., collection, transportation, treatment (in the case of
nightsoil), and final disposal. With such information, the cities would then be in a better
position to (a) assess the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the services; (b) price their
services to recover the full economic cost where user identification and billing is
economically feasible; and (c) judge whether the services, or parts thereof, can be further
commercialized or privatized.
1. INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
5.27  As some of the priority pollution control subprojects are, by nature, not financially
productive, the financial appraisal would focus on the long-term financial health of the
enterprises. The key considerations in this assessment include the enterprise's development
goals and strategy, product mix and market analysis, investment requirements and related
financing arrangements, and projected financial performance in terms of profitability,



- 43 -
liquidity and debt servicing capabilities. The two subprojects (Kunming Chemical
Fertilizer Factory and Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory) that Bank/IDA staff have
already appraised meet the above financial criteria and therefore are considered financially
viable. With a view to promoting prudent financial management, the agreed subproject
selection criteria call for the entity to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than
1.4 times after the proposed subproject has reached full production capacity.



-44 -
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
A. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.1   As described in Chapter 2, the project derives from the CAS in its support of
provincial efforts to substantially reduce pollution within the province, especially within
densely populated urban areas, by improving environmental regulation and providing new
models for the efficient organization and financing of urban environmental services.
Specifically, the project would support:
(a)   the more aggressive use of user fees to shift the burden of pollution
abatement to the polluter and induce waste minimization, and new
organizational forms for wastewater providers, to allow improved
management tools and to help minimize the cost of abatement;
(b)   expansion of sewerage services, hence a reduction in water pollution, within
the boundaries of Gejiu, Kunming, and Qujing, thus protecting the urban
environment and the health of their people;
(c)   increases in water supply in the cities of Kunming and Qujing, to meet the
needs of growing urban populations;
(d)   the first municipal solid waste landfills meeting national standards in the
cities of Kunming and Qujing, with consequent protection of local land and
water resources and flaring landfill methane to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions;
(e)   abatement of two important industrial point sources of pollution affecting
Lake Dianchi in Kunming and a pollution control revolving fund to address
less costly pollution abatement efforts and provide a model for other such
funds; and
(f)   the provincial and municipal EPBs in their efforts to implement more
effective regulatory instruments.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.2        During project identification, it became clear that Yunnan and its cities needed
substantial changes in policy and institutional structures along the lines described in the
report China: Urban Environmental Service Management. Policy problems included urban
environmental services priced too low to discourage waste generation or provide the
financing needed to build, maintain, and operate services such as water supply and
wastewater collection and treatment. Government bureaus providing the services lacked the



- 45 -
financial tools to develop effective tariff strategies or the operating autonomy needed to
encourage managerial innovation. Gaps in environmental regulation were also apparent.
Therefore, investment choices were made with a view toward maximizing the impact of
policy and institutional innovation within the province. Specific investment choices within
sectors and cities responded to long-run municipal government strategies to bring ambient
environmental quality or service standards up to national guidelines. In the case of
augmented water supply in Kunming and Qujing, and the avoided damage to Kunming's
water supply, explicit benefit analysis was possible and undertaken. For the wastewater
investments in Qujing and Gejiu and the solid waste handling and treatment investments in
Kunming and Qujing, least-cost analysis to meet specified standards was used. Based on
that analysis, city leaders made decisions on their short-run goals and investments.
6.3    City and Sector Choices. In urban environmental service provision, cities were
included in the project based on the size of the population potentially benefiting from
improved services and considering their value as models to other provincial cities. Yunnan
has one very large city, Kunming, with an urban population of some 1.2 million, and 10
smaller cities, the largest of which has about 180,000 people. After reviewing potential
investments in some five provincial cities, three were selected for further project
development. Kunming was given the top ranking because of its size and the major water
quality and supply problem it faces. The other two cities are of a size and economic
strength akin to most Yunnan cities and their experience under the project will therefore be
more readily transferred. Each of the selected cities had already prepared environmental
improvement plans that outlined priority service needs, both in terms of the type of service
and areas of the city needing service. Work with Bank Group missions confirmed the
choice to extend sewerage systems and provide treatment and to build or substantially
expand sanitary landfills as the next step in environmental protection. Additional water
supply needs had also to be met if their growing urban populations were to have access to
safe water.
6.4   Credit market constraints [described much more fully in the China Department's
1995 Capital Markets Sector Study (No. 14501-CHA)] leave unexploited abatement
opportunities in economically and financial viable enterprises that currently have a high
pollution impact. Yunnan Province therefore sought to use part of the loan to fund such
investments. The Province agreed with the Bank Group on a selection process to identify
the highest-impact polluters, a process that has identified two chemical fertilizer plants for
process change investments that will increase profitability as they abate pollution. These
plants both discharge high levels of pollutants to Lake Dianchi, and their cleanup is far less
costly than providing municipal treatment services removing the same mass of pollutants.
To provide for such opportunities in smaller enterprises, the Province also established a
pollution control loan fund, initially capitalized at $10 million, for which it requested Bank
Group support.
6.5   Ideally, sector interventions would have been chosen based on the comparison of
intersectoral costs and benefits. Unfortunately, current methodologies do not permit high-
confidence benefit estimates for the proposed wastewater investments in Qujing and Gejiu,
nor the solid waste collection and treatment in any of the cities. In Kunming, the fact that



- 46 -
all wastewater discharges into Lake Dianchi, which also serves as a primary water source
for the city, does permit a benefit estimate at a reasonably high degree of confidence. In
that case, the cost of doing nothing different from current practice will have an impact on
lake water quality that forces increased treatment costs and an early shift to new, and more
expensive, water sources. Those costs serve as a proxy for part of the pollution damage and
averting them more than justifies the proposed investments. No attempt was made to value
the aesthetic or health impacts that might be additional to the increased water supply costs.
6.6    Organizational and Financing Alternatives. Of the proposed investments, the
solid waste will be managed by municipal environmental sanitation departments; the water
by an existing municipally-owned enterprise; the wastewater by newly formed municipally-
owned enterprises; and the fertilizer plant pollution abatement by the enterprises
themselves. In each case, the enterprises or activities were judged unable to effectively
compete for private financing at this stage in their development, though institutional
reforms under the project will help them attain that goal in the future. None have a history
of sufficiently profitable operation to attract private financing. In the case of the water and
fertilizer enterprises, the lack of profits can be attributed to the fact that they continue to fall
under a tightly controlled output price regime, while facing a largely deregulated input
market. For water, the project commits the municipalities to regulating prices such as to
allow a positive return. The fertilizer enterprises will shift production to unregulated
markets, thus partially escaping the regulatory burden. The wastewater enterprises were
created to provide a managerial structure facilitating efficient operation, something absent
in their previous government bureau form. For wastewater, the municipalities have
committed to a price structure that results in break-even operations. Only solid waste
remains a government bureau operation. Here, the current collection operation works
sufficiently well that emphasis was placed on providing technical assistance to properly cost
the operation and allow adequate rates for commercial, industrial, and other system users.
In all cases, a project goal is to help create the preconditions for greater nongovernmental
involvement in service provision.
6.7    Wastewater.  The economic analysis of wastewater collection and treatment
programs generally presents challenging analytical problems on the benefit side. The range
of impacts, on amenity, health, and commodity production uses, can be described but
usually not easily quantified. However, in this project Kunming's Dianchi Lake water use
for municipal supply creates a condition whereby pollution damage can be modeled and
impacts quantified with a reasonable degree of confidence. That analysis was undertaken.
In the case of Qujing and Gejiu, the least-cost analysis was linked to alternative water
quality outcomes. Although municipal leaders originally set a goal of reaching Class IV
surface water, the results of the least-cost analysis persuaded them to value the alternative
goal of Class V. Details are discussed in Annex 15, with a brief summary given below.
(a)    Kunming. Because Dianchi Lake supplies half of Kunming's water, and
because Kunming's pollution is causing lake water quality to deteriorate in a
well-understood way, it is possible to value the damage from the pollution in
terms of the increased cost of treated water supply from the lake, or the cost
of going to new sources outside the lake.  The proposed wastewater



- 47 -
treatment interventions under the project would treat part of the waste
stream, reducing total pollution inflow. That impact can again be modeled
and the net effect on Dianchi water quality, hence pollution damage,
determined. Other impacts, including those on recreational, health and
amenity values, also exist, but estimates of those values have a lower degree
of confidence and have not been included in the analysis.
The Dianchi lake water quality model identified phosphorus loads as
limiting for this important raw water source. The economic analysis
therefore concentrated on investments that would control that pollutant, and
compared damage in a "do nothing" scenario of operating existing
infrastructure and that currently under construction, under current practices,
to damage with the reduced loads under the project. In the "do nothing"
scenario, pollutant loads grow rapidly (see Annex 7, Figure 1), forcing first
higher treatment costs for potable water, then, by 2002, investment in major
new sources of supply. The project would allow sustained use of Lake
Dianchi as the primary water source over the 25 year analytical horizon.
The analysis of the water supply impact shows that the proposed wastewater
investment would avert damage with a net present value of Y 2,761 million,
at a net present value cost of Y 1,719 million, assuming a 12 percent
discount rate. This result is most sensitive to the need for investment in new
sources of supply. If that need were delayed five years, and costs dropped
10 percent, the averted damage would fall to Y 2,066 million, still well
above the sub-component cost net present value. However, measured
deterioration has been so rapid that even a five-year delay is highly unlikely,
and were it to occur, project costs themselves would drop, as advanced water
treatment could also be delayed.
(b)   Qujing. Qujing wastewater discharges to the Nanpanjiang River, thence
downstream to the Pearl River. Wastewater pollution of the Nanpanjiang
has already forced some downstream farmers to abandon this source of
irrigation and drinking water and shift to more expensive groundwater
pumping. Continued failure by Qujing to capture and treat wastewater will
result in ever more rural communities losing their primary source of water.
Qujing authorities therefore requested their design institutes to perform a
least-cost analysis of treatment options that would maintain the Nanpanjiang
at Class IV water quality, suitable for agricultural and industrial use. The
treatment options considered include oxidation ponds, and three variants of
activated sludge processes. The authorities judged this cost too high,
requesting a separate analysis on treatment to reach Class V, suitable for
irrigation but few other uses. Here an intermediate stage activated sludge
process was selected that can readily be incorporated in the longer term
proposals.
(c)   Gejiu. Gejiu wastewater discharges to Gejiu Lake, from which it serves as
an irrigation water source, despite the below Class V quality of the water.



- 48 -
As in Qujing, the authorities initially sought treatment that would restore the
lake to Class IV. Again, three treatment processes were considered, with
two-stage activated sludge again least-cost. However, as with Qujing, this
was deemed unaffordable and an intermediate stage biological system
capable of incorporation into longer term proposals was again chosen.
Despite the lower treatment level, Gejiu Lake water quality will be raised by
discharging the treated Gejiu effluent downstream of the lake.
6.8   Water Supply.  Under the project, the water supply for Kunming will be
augmented by some 65 m3/year, supplying an estimated 500,000 new connections as
coverage increases and urban growth continues. The average economic incremental cost
of the new supply has been estimated at Y 0.60/m3. Two willingness-to-pay surveys,
conducted at different times with different methodologies, showed 89 percent of
households willing to pay at least Y 0.71/mr3 for potable water supply in one case and 72
percent willing to pay at least Y 0.60/mn3 in the other. The average tariff was raised from
January 1, 1996, to above Y 0.60/m3 with no noticeable reduction of demand. The true
test of consumer response to the new tariff will come in the summer, high demand,
season. However, all the evidence supports the conclusion of a positive net present value
(NPV) for this investment. More precise quantification would need evidence on the
shape of the demand curve at prices above Y 0.60/m3, and that does not exist.
6.9    Solid Waste. Solid waste landfill options are also discussed in detail in Annex 15.
Here, initial choices for both Kunming and Qujing were among potential solid waste
disposal strategies that included recycling, composting, incineration, and landfilling.
Recycling plays an active role in each of the cities, capturing more than 5 percent of the
municipal waste stream that can be profitably recycled. The industry is highly competitive,
with a combination of state-owned and private firms providing services, and little scope for
additional useful municipal intervention. Composting, to recycle organic materials, has
been tested in Kunming. Costs have been high and markets have not supported product
sales. A major problem for composting and incineration is that over half of the waste
stream is inorganic, with coal ash the dominant inorganic component. Analysis in other
cities with similar waste streams has shown incineration to be substantially more costly than
landfill. Based on that work, the two cities have elected to use landfilling to handle their
municipal solid wastes.
6.10  The cities have accepted that such landfills must comply with national standards, so
made no attempt to compare the cost of adding leachate and gas collection with the damage
that would ensue from their absence. Given the long-run risks inherent in unprotected
landfills, the Bank/IDA accepted without additional impact evaluation the municipal
judgment on the need to provide leachate and gas collection and treatment. The least-cost
site and design had, as one of the main decision criteria, minimization of the joint cost of
transport and land acquisition. As land acquisition cost correlates very strongly with
resettlement impact, this criteria also tends to minimize resettlement.
6.11  Industrial Pollution ControL The industrial pollution control component has two
subcomponents, the first being direct investment in two chemical fertilizer plants producing



- 49 -
a very high proportion of the phosphorus loads in Dianchi and the second a pollution
control fund targeting small investments and small-scale enterprises. The two fertilizer
factories alone produce 16 percent of all available phosphorus discharged into the Waihai
and 73 percent of the total industrial phosphorus loads. Their existing wastewater treatment
facilities lack adequate design capacity for their loads and frequent equipment breakdowns
reduce treatrnent still further. Price controls on much of their output force them to operate
at a loss on those products, made up through government subsidies. The proposed
investment in the factories (detailed in Annex 12) would radically change their production
processes, intermediate, and some final outputs, allowing profitable operation and much
cleaner production. Phosphorus discharges would drop from 93 tons annually to below
2 tons, and those of other pollutants would also decline. The estimated economic rates of
return for the plants are 24 (Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory) and 36 (Kunming
Chemical Fertilizer Factory) percent, independent of any continued environmental damage.
The latter is too low to reflect in the lake water quality model, so the overall returns are
judged to be positive. These investments represent win-win solutions unavailable through
normal financing mechanisms due to the continued downward pressure on profits through
price controls. The fertilizer price control policy itself, and possible overuse of fertilizer
resulting from that policy, are national issues with possible repercussions on Dianchi Lake
pollution loads, but are not addressed in this analysis. The second subcomponent-a
subloan facility-would provide financing to assist small-scale enterprises within the
Dianchi Basin to control pollution through waste minimization measures, modifications or
renovations to existing plants to reduce waste outputs, or recycle waste generated during
production.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.12   The project would contribute significantly to the improvement of water quality in
heavily populated areas of Yunnan. In particular water quality in Dianchi Lake, the
principal focus of the project, will be substantially improved by a comprehensive program
of interventions based on removal of phosphorus from wastewater discharges to the lake.
The proposed project would reduce phosphorus loads to approximately half the "do
nothing" loads, and two-thirds of current loads. This will arrest the eutrophication of the
lake, which is reaching a critical stage, in particular in terms of water treatment problems,
and will permit the sustained use of the lake for water supply, thereby avoiding costly
import of water from distant catchments. The Environmental Assessment summary in
Annex 7 provides details.
6.13  Although the balance of the environmental impact is substantially positive, potential
adverse impacts from waste disposal and industrial pollution control components require
the classification of the project as Category A in terms of the Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (EA). Accordingly, a comprehensive EA has been prepared
covering all project components and has been reviewed by the Bank/IDA and approved by
NEPA. The complete EA report is in the project files (Annex.16) and a summary is given
in Annex 7. Appropriate mitigation measures for the potential, but minor, negative project
impacts have been identified in the EA. The resettlement impact of the project will be



- 50 -
managed through a resettlement action plan that is in the project files and is summarized in
Annex 6.
D. AFFORDABILITY AND POVERTY ASSESSMENT
6.14   The affordability issue arises only with the water and wastewater components of the
proposed project. The industrial pollution interventions will proceed only if the enterprises
can demonstrate that they will remain financially sound after the investment, and solid
waste charges will rise only for industrial and commercial users of the new landfills.
Affordability of the new water and wastewater systems was tested against current
consumption patterns and average income of the poorest 10 percent of the urban population
in the three cities. The proposed first-year tariff would consume an average of less than 2
percent of the income of the poorest 10 percent of the population, with wastewater fees
based on 80 percent of water used in Gejiu and Qujing, and 100 percent in Kunming.
Indeed, because the poor are less likely than other households to have water piped to the
house (using standpipes instead, for which no fees are currently charges), even the 2 percent
figure represents an upper bound.
6.15  The affordability of the higher tariffs anticipated in later years will clearly depend
on changes in real income among the urban poor over time. In real terms, within five years
the tariffs will increase to as much as 50 percent above the 1996 rate. With no change in
real income and no consumption effect, the average water and wastewater bills would
increase to about 3 percent of average income for the poorest 10 percent of households.
However, over the past decade, the real incomes of the urban poor have risen in line with
overall income increases. If that pattern, and overall real personal income growth,
continues near current rates, water and wastewater tariffs as a percentage of personal
income would climb only slightly above the first-year level. In absolute terms, the increase
would be fully offset by first-year income gains.
E. PROJECT RISKS
6.1    The proposed project faces or mitigates a variety of risks. Those risks are here
grouped under three general headings: implementation and operational risks, regulatory
risk, and risks to long-term sustainability. Each type of risk is discussed in detail in
Annex 15. Those findings are summarized below.
(a)    Project financing presents a risk due to the need for municipal counterpart
funding.  Among the three cities, Qujing has committed the highest
percentage of its on-budget resources to the project, with annual project-
related expenditures reaching 47 percent of projected on-budget revenues in
1999. However, as noted in para. 5.12, on-budget revenues represent only
one of many revenue sources by which the cities can support projects. The
provincial finance bureau has undertaken an independent analysis of
Qujing's ability to finance the planned works, based on their knowledge of
the broader financial resources available to the city, and judged the plans
feasible.



- 51 -
(b)   The shift to new organizational forms of autonomous utilities managed as
enterprises for wastewater management is critical to project success. Slow
institutional innovation therefore becomes a project risk Each city is well
along in the process, having successfully completed the transformation to an
enterprise. In Kunming, wastewater assets have been revalued and that
work is being reviewed by the State Asset Bureau, the last step before
formal transfer to the books of the wastewater enterprise. Qujing and Gejiu
have already transferred revalued assets to wastewater entity books. The
groundwork is thus laid for introduction of the new accounting and
management information systems needed to efficiently guide the work of
these enterprises. In the long run, efficient operation will also depend on
cities honoring the autonomy of the enterprises in financial, personnel and
other management decisions. This element of risk cannot be divorced from
larger efforts within the economy to reform government relations with the
state-owned enterprise sector. These issues have recently received thorough
analysis in the State-Owned Enterprise Reform sector study (currently in
green cover).
(c)    The industrial pollution control component creates credit risk borne by the
provincial government. Under the industrial lending, whether directly to the
enterprises or through the pollution control fund, provincial government
would be responsible for repaying any loan that an enterprise could not
repay. To minimize this risk, an essential element of the project appraisal,
which is subject to review and confirmation by the provincial finance
bureau, is analysis of the firm's financial strength and the risk it faces in its
input and output markets. The firm must meet a 1.4 debt service coverage
requirement over the project life, providing that margin of safety to the
government exposure. Furthermore, the loans are being made at no less than
150 basis points over the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar
single currency loans, with the enterprise bearing the foreign exchange risk.
With administrative fees of approximately 50 basis points for the two direct
industrial loans, the provincial government will capture at least 100 basis
points to cover their risks. In addition, they will enjoy the use of loan and
interest payments in the interval between collection from the enterprise and
repayment to the Ministry of Finance. Administrative costs are higher for
the pollution control subloans, probably approaching 150 basis points, and
this would be a revolving account, obviating the premium from early
recapture of loan funds. Here, any risk premium would have to be added to
the 150 basis points, or the risk absorbed by the provincial government.
They have indicated a wish to hold the premium at the 150 basis point level,
while seeking additional performance guarantees from the local government
in which any benefiting enterprise is located.
(d)    Operational risks arise in the industrial pollution control component with
the failure (documented in China:   Urban Environmental Service



- 52 -
Management) of many enterprises to operate their pollution abatement
facilities. The analysis addressed the risk that pollution abatement goals
would not be met. However, the proposed investments involve process
changes in which little of the treatment element can be isolated from the
overall production process. The production process itself is inherently much
cleaner than the original process, leading to the pollution control gains
expected.
(e)    Major policy risks include possible resistance to timely implementation of
the new tariff structure for water and wastewater. Failure to implement
agreed tariffs would seriously impair the performance incentives of the
utilities and their ability to finance ongoing investment programs. To
mitigate this risk, a tariff increase before negotiation is being required and
tariffs will be a supervision focal point. The latter will be aided by the fact
that service providers are required to present annual accounts showing
whether existing tariffs have met their financial needs and to project tariff
levels needed in the following year.
(f)    Significant regulatory risks also arise because the pollution control results
anticipated for the surface waters depend not only on sewerage technologies
successfully constructed and operated by the cities.  Many important
pollutants must be controlled at source by the industries generating them. A
failure to do so could threaten either the sewerage infrastructure or the
quality of the various lakes and rivers, depending on enterprise discharge
points. The principal means of mitigating this risk is a strong regulatory
regime. The importance of this work was recognized during preparation of
the project and is addressed under the technical assistance component
(Ann  2).
(g)   The major risks to long-term sustainability are financial and regulatory, and
have been discussed above. Additional risks arise from outside of the cities
themselves and center on polluting inputs to the various water bodies from
areas beyond municipal control.  These additional pollutants could
overwhelm any benefit that would otherwise be realized by the planned
investments. In the case of the network of waterways within the cities, this
risk is not great. Most of their watersheds are small, pollutants are of local
origin, and their control will be a function of the proper operation of the
project. However, Dianchi also suffers from nonpoint source pollutants,
particularly agricultural, and substantial nutrient loads from upstream
agriculture as well as poorly regulated township and village industrial
enterprise pollution discharges. Satisfactory abatement of those polluting
sources will depend on the actions of a large number of political
jurisdictions, most of which would suffer no immediate harm from
continued discharges to lake tributaries. The growing appreciation within
China of the value of water as a resource and of the importance of water
pollution abatement offers the best hope of inducing compliance with the



- 53 -
current industrial regulations. A similar appreciation of the risks from
agriculture has yet to appear, and must become an element of long-run lake
and river basin quality control.



- 54 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)   YP would implement the Institutional Development and Training
component in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank/IDA and
discuss and agree any revisions with the Bank/IDA (para. 3.4);
(b)   Kunming Municipality would onlend part of the proceeds to Kunming
Chemical Fertilizer Factory and YP, part of the proceeds to Kunyang
Phosphate Fertilizer Factory, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA (para. 3.12);
(c)   The municipalities would onlend part of the loan/credit proceeds to their
respective water and wastewater agencies, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.12);
(d)   YP would onlend to participating enterprises, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.14);
(e)   YP would allocate to EPCSL about Y 42 million over the three fiscal years
commencing 1997, depositing annually to the account of EPCSL at least
Y 14 million by June 30 of each such year (para. 3.14);
(f)   YP would carry out or cause to be carried out the resettlement of persons
affected by the project in a manner and according to the Resettlement
Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.33);
(g)   YP would cause the project agencies to carry out, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank/IDA, the mitigation plans specified in the Environmental
Impact Assessment (para. 3.35);
(h)   Each implementing agency would prepare quarterly project progress
reports; YEPO would then send a consolidated report to the Bank/IDA by
the thirtieth of the following month, commencing July 1996 (para. 3.36);
(i)    A mid-term review of project progress would be undertaken by June 30,
1999 and the agreed recommendations implemented (para. 3.38);
(j)    YP would maintain YEPO and the municipal project offices throughout
implementation, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the



- 55 -
Bank/IDA, and with competent staff in adequate numbers for the duration
of the project (para. 4.3);
(k)   YP would carry out, or cause to be carried out, (i) time-bound action plans
for environmental management improvements, and (ii) the time-bound
environmental management action plan for the Kunming Pesticide Plant
(para. 4.12);
(I)    YP would arrange for the following annual audits to be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the end of the financial year: (i) audit of the
project accounts maintained by YEPO, by the sanitation departments of
Kunming and Qujing, by the responsible bureaus of Jinning and
Chenggong; (ii) audit of the Special Account; (iii) audit of statements of
expenditure (SOE); (iv) audits of the financial statements of KWSC, KDC,
QWSDC, GWSDC, and EPCSL (para. 5.7);
(m)   Commencing with Fiscal Year 1997, YP would cause the Kunming Water
Supply Company to (i) produce revenues from its water supply operations
sufficient to cover operations and maintenance costs (before depreciation),
increases in working capital, debt service, and 20 percent of the average
capital expenditures made in a three-year period (the year preceding the
reference year, the reference year itself, and the year after the reference
year), taking actions to meet requirements; and (ii) incur no additional
debt without the Bank/IDA's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast
shows that it would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times
(para. 5.17);
(n)   Commencing with Fiscal Year 1997, YP would cause the Qujing water
supply entity to (i) produce revenues from its water supply operations
sufficient to cover operations and maintenance costs (including
depreciation), and the amount by which debt service requirements exceed
the provision for depreciation; and (ii) incur no additional debt without the
Bank/IDA's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that the entity
would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times (para. 5.18);
(o)   Commencing with fiscal year 1997 in the case of Gejiu and Qujing, and
fiscal year 1998 in the case of Kunming, YP would cause the wastewater
entities of Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing to (i) produce revenues from their
wastewater operations sufficient to cover operations and maintenance
costs (including depreciation), and the amount by which debt service
requirements exceed the provision for depreciation; and (ii) incur no
additional debt without the Bank/IDA's agreement, unless a reasonable
forecast shows that the entities would have a debt service coverage of at
least 1.3 times (para. 5.21);



- 56 -
(p)   The water supply and wastewater entities would prepare, before
September 30, 1997, and in each of the following fiscal years, forecasts
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, (i) to review whether they would meet the
covenanted requirements set forth above in such year and the following
fiscal year, and (ii) to furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank/IDA;
if any such reviews would show that the entity would not meet the
requirements set out above, the entity would take all necessary measures,
including adjustments to the structure of its tariffs and charges, in order to
meet the requirements (para. 5.22); and
(q)   YP would ensure that Kunming and Qujing Municipalities each: (i) not
later than July 1, 1997, complete a study of the user fees and user charges
needed for the recovery of the full costs of providing solid waste collection
and disposal services to industrial and commercial users; the report of that
study shall include a detailed, time-bound action plan, acceptable to the
Bank/IDA, enabling such recovery as of January 1, 1988; and (ii)
thereafter implement the said action plan taking into account the
Bank/IDA's comments thereon (para. 5.25).
7.2   The following are conditions of loan/credit effectiveness:
(a)   Execution  of subsidiary  loan  agreements  between  the  project
municipalities and their water and wastewater utility companies,
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.13);
(b)   Implementation of a wastewater tariff of no less than Y 0.35/m3 by KDC
(para. 5.14).
7.3   The following are conditions of disbursement on the respective components:
(a)   Approval by the Bank/IDA of operational regulations for EPCSL, and the
execution of an acceptable financial agency agreement between YP and a
bank for subloan processing (para. 3.25);
(b)   The execution of acceptable subsidiary loan agreements between:
(i) Kunming and Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Plant, and (ii) Yunnan and
Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Plant would be conditions of disbursement
for the loan/credit proceeds allocated to these investments (para. 3.25);
(c)   Signed contracts, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, between YP and consulting
firms, for institutional and financial technical assistance, construction
supervision services, and sector institutional strengthening with respect to
the Kunming Drainage Company and the Kunming Water Supply
Company (Packages A and B) (para. 3.25); and



- 57 -
(d)   A financial forecast of KDC's operations for fiscal year 1997, acceptable
to the Bank/IDA, together with written confirmation that all wastewater
tariff increases included in the forecast have been approved by YP (para.
3.25).
7.4   With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan
of $125 million for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, and an IDA credit of SDR
17.4 million ($25 million equivalent) at standard terns with 35 years' maturity. The
borrower would be the People's Republic of China.






- 59-                      ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: BACKGROUND TO YUNNAN PROVINCE AND
PROJECT CITIES
1.    Yunnan Province is located in southwest China and is bordered, clockwise from the
north, by the following: the Provinces of Sichuan and Guizhou, Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region, the countries of Viet Nam, Lao PDR and Myanmar, and Tibet
Autonomous Region. The northwestem area has a temperate climate, being dominated by
the southeastern Himalayas, where the upper reaches of three great rivers (the Jingshajiang,
which discharges to the Changjiang [Yangtze]; the Lancangjiang [Mekong]; and the
Nujiang [Salween]) flow southward barely 80 km apart. In contrast, the southern areas are
tropical, while central and eastern areas comprise a plateau of red earth and lake basins at an
elevation of about 2,000 m, and have a subtropical climate. The source of the Nanpanjiang
(Pearl River) is in the northeast of the Province. The average annual rainfall is between 800
and 1,000 mm, with low precipitation in the northwest, high in the southeast; 60 percent of
the rainfall occurs from June to August. The average temperature is 8 to 170C in January;
1 I to 29C in July.
2.    Yunnan Province has a total land area of about 394,000 km2 and a population of
some 38 million, of which about 15 percent live in urban areas. The Province has the
largest number (23) of nationalities in China. It is the third poorest, with a 1992 per capita
gross domestic product (GDP) of Y 1,165 ($134). Over 85 percent of the population earn
their living from the land, but Yunnan's mountainous terrain leaves only 6 percent of the
land with a slope of less than 15 percent. Despite difficult growing conditions, agriculture
managed a respectable 5.4 percent growth rate from 1980 to 1992; however this was
insufficient to fully employ the agricultural labor force which, as elsewhere in China,
remains much in excess of requirements. In recent years, underemployed rural labor has
taken advantage of new freedom of movement to seek work in the industrial and service
sectors that are themselves concentrated in urban areas.
3.    Industry employs only 7 percent of the 20 million strong labor force. It grew at an
average rate of 11.1 percent a year from 1980 to 1992, and now accounts for 41.1 percent of
Yunnan's GDP. The service sector has grown even faster, at 11.5 percent a year over the
same period, and now contributes 17.7 percent of GDP, employing 13.5 percent of the labor
force. Improvements in provincial road and rail transport, with an attendant lowering of
travel costs, and the opening up of international borders with Viet Nam, Lao PDR and
Myanmar, should all help sustain momentum for industrial, service and urban growth over
the near term.



- 60 -                     ANNEX 1
Gejiu
4.    Gejiu Municipality comprises an area of 1,876 km2 and a population of 337,000.
Gejiu City, a tin and nonferrous metal industry city of some 134,000 situated in a mountain
valley, evolved from the discovery and exploitation of tin. Its primary source of industrial
water is Lake Gejiu, which suddenly appeared in 1954 after unusually heavy rains. Gejiu
City faces a situation of too much water/flooding during the wet season and too little water
during the dry season. Drinking water is piped from a reservoir above the city because
Lake Gejiu has been polluted to Grade 5 by soil erosion, waste ore-dressing water and
tailings, urban garbage and sewage, and industrial wastewater. Water volume has been
reduced from 5.6 million m3 on formation of the lake to 3.2 million m3 in 1994 as a result of
soil erosion caused by the steady stripping of the extremely steep mountainsides since 1958
for either forage/firewood or mining activities, and sludge buildup.
Kunming
5.    Kunming Municipality is the capital and economic center of Yunnan Province,
dominating all other cities in both population and economic activity. The population of
Kunming Municipality was reported at 3.6 million in 1992 with about 1.2 million (about 33
percent) living in the urban areas and 2.4 million residing in the country areas. Kunming is
a multiminority city with minority groups representing some 12 percent of the population.
The municipal population is expected to reach about 3.9 to 4.2 million by year 2000 with
some 2 million in the urban area.
6.    There are some 5,000 industrial enterprises located in Kunming, including
machinery, metallurgy, electrical power, building materials, food processing, chemical and
textile industries. Many of the industries were established more than 50 years ago.
Kunming's growth provides jobs for rural migrants and increasing demand for a wide
variety of agricultural products and industrial raw materials produced in the rural areas.
Investments in infrastructure have not kept pace with the needs.
7.    The development of the city has been somewhat uneven. The first master plan for
the city was produced in 1980 and revised in 1987. The 1987 Plan is currently under
revision.
Water Supply
8.    The first water supply for Kunming dates back to 1915. Since that time, additional
sources have been developed. Up to about 1962 groundwater abstraction from the
limestone formations underlying Kunming provided the supply for the city, reported at
about 130,000 m3/day at that time. Since the early 1960s the city has relied almost wholly
on surface water supplies. The two main sources are the Songhuaba Reservoir on the
Panlong River, 13 km northeast of Kunming, and Dianchi Lake. Operational responsibility
rests with the Kunming Water Supply Company (KWSC) which reports through the Public
Utilities Bureau to the Construction Commission. Five treatment plants, with a total
capacity of 410,000 m3/day, have been built and commissioned over the years, the most



- 61-                      ANNEX 1
recent being the No. 5 Plant, which was commissioned in 1990. As designed, about 50
percent of the raw water is abstracted at each source. However, the sources are operated
conjunctively, with preference being given to drawing excess water from the Songhuaba
reservoir since this water quality meets the Grade II National Environmental Quality
Standard for Surface Water. The reservoir embankment has recently been raised to increase
the storage from 70 million m3 to 230 million m3, primarily for purposes of flood control,
but the water supply availability is increased to 300,000 m3/day (from 224,000 m3/day).
9.    In addition to the abstraction from  Dianchi Lake for water supply, some
200,000 m3/day is withdrawn for industry and agriculture.  Future water availability
depends on water balance analyses yet to be completed.
10.   The following issues need to be addressed relating to water quality, quantity and
reuse from Dianchi Lake.
Sewerage and Drainage
11.   Kunming drains naturally toward the Dianchi Lake with the Panlong River and
many small streams and canals feeding into the lake from the northern side of the city. The
city center has developed on flat low-lying land with consequent problems for the drainage
of stormwater and wastewater flows. Construction of a combined drainage system started
in the 1950s, mainly in the city center. The canals are still used to a large extent in outlying
areas. Sewerage operation and maintenance is very fragmented at present, there being
urgent need for a consolidated organizational arrangement covering the whole service.
12.   A Sewerage Master Plan was prepared in the late 1980s and approved by
government in 1991. The planning horizon of the SMP is year 2000 and the dry-weather
wastewater flow at that time was estimated at 643,000 m3/day. Over the years a number of
pumping stations have been constructed (nine for sewage and nine for storm flows). About
135 km of pipelines have been built and some 130 km of canals and ditches are used in the
system. There is an apparent lack of overall planning, and the provisions do not seem to
have been developed within any longer-term overall drainage strategy, but seem to respond
to new developing areas in a haphazard way. Seven separate drainage systems have been
identified, each with its individual treatment facility, comprising the areas of Xin, Yunliang,
Chuanfang, Mingtong and Jiancao, Jinzhi, Baisha and Baoxiang, and Haigeng. Only two
sewage treatment plants, with design capacities of 55,000 and 100,000 m /day, are so far
operational. The proposed total capacity of these various facilities is about 550,000 m3/day,
although the basis of this estimate needs to be clarified.
13.   Wastewater issues that need to be addressed include:
(a)   The development of a comprehensive long-term master plan and wastewater
strategy for wastewater collection, treatment and disposal, and a phased
investment program based on the least-cost, sustainable development
options;



- 62 -                      ANNEX 1
(b)   Development of realistic design criteria for wastewater treatment design,
based on current disposal arrangements in Yunnan, where septic tank
treatment is widely adopted, and considering site-specific raw water analysis
and data;
(c)    Cost effectiveness and practicality of providing separate sewer systems in
existing developed areas; and
(d)   The need to determine and put in place the most effective institutional
arrangements for operation and maintenance of sewerage operations city
wide, in terms of financial and operational viability.
Solid Waste Management
14.   Solid Waste Management operations are theoretically decentralized to the district
level under the District Administrative Governments, although the decision-making
continues to be taken largely by the Municipal Environmental Sanitation Section (this
section runs the new landfill sites). Firm data on solid waste operations is scant; Kunming
Municipal Environmental Sanitation Section records indicate that some 334,000 tons/year
of solid waste and 233,000 tons/year of nightsoil were dealt with during 1993. The solid
waste collection fleet comprises about 65 vehicles of two-ton capacity and an equal number
of five-ton capacity. Some 100 vacuum tankers are deployed to deal with the nightsoil.
Disposal of solid waste is to various landfill sites around the city. Current disposal is at half
a dozen uncontrolled dumps on the periphery of the city. Future disposal will be at two
landfills to be developed as part of this project.
15.   Nightsoil has traditionally been disposed of as fertilizer in agricultural areas, but this
outlet is reducing as farmers are becoming reluctant to take nightsoil, preferring to use
chemical fertilizer now becoming available. As a result a large proportion of nightsoil and
sludge from the septic tanks is now deposited in the lake or mixed with the sewage for
treatment prior to being discharged to the lake. The long-term strategy to be adopted to deal
with this issue is to phase out septic tanks.
16.   There seems to be no regulation of hazardous waste in Yunnan Province, although a
proposal for a "Solid Waste Pollution Control and Prevention Law" is expected to be
approved in late 1994. Classification of categories of .solid waste is urgently needed,
hazardous waste classification being particularly unclear.
Qujing
17.   Qujing Municipality comprises an area of 4,350 km 2 and a population of 220,000.
Qujing City is the second-largest city in Yunnan after Kunming, with an area of 13.5 km2
and a current population of about 161,500. It has been targeted by provincial authorities as
an open city, with foreign investment strongly encouraged. Its population is projected to
reach 340,000 by the year 2000 and 550,000 by 2010. The city is situated on the
Nanpanjiang, source of the Zhujiang (Pearl River). Qujing is a water-short area; water is



- 63 -                      ANNEX 1
provided to the city from two reservoirs, and in recent years there has been conflict between
these two sources of demand. In addition, some industries are extracting groundwater for
their own use, depleting the groundwater supply enough to cause land subsidence in some
areas. There is little treatment of domestic and industrial wastewater. The Qujing portion
of the Nanpanjiang exceeds Grade V of the Chinese national water standards, seriously
affecting the life of the river and that of the Zhujiang, and the well-being of the people and
cities along their banks.



- 64 -                     ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1.    Yunnan Province lies in the southwest corner of China. The province has a
population of about 38 million, and is one of the poorest in China, with large numbers of
the rural population living below the official poverty level. Many major rivers pass through
Yunnan providing ample water resources at the provincial level. Although Yunnan is
predominantly a rural province, the urban areas of Kunming, Qujing and other centers have
been growing rapidly over the last two decades, experiencing migration from rural areas and
other provinces.
2.    The province has undergone rapid industrialization as government at all levels has
sought to broaden the mainly agricultural economic base. This has been achieved through a
strategy of processing the many agricultural products, prior to export, and exploiting the
province's large mineral resources such as tin, phosphates and coal. Industrialization has
occurred in both rural and urban areas, with large processing factories, such as steel
smelters, being established within the city limits, and many small-scale township and
village enterprises (TVEs) set up in rural areas. As a result, the provincial gross domestic
product (GDP) has grown at a rate of over 10 percent per year over the last decade.
3.    The benefits of this recent economic expansion have also resulted in serious
environmental degradation.  Urban redevelopment, funded by increased wealth, and
industrialization have increased water demand substantially. In these areas, traditional
nightsoil collection has been replaced with sewerage systems, while yard taps have been
replaced with indoor multifaucet connections allowing increasing use of washing machines
and other water-using appliances, consistent with increasing prosperity of the urban
dwellers. This has resulted in ever-increasing demands for expanded water supply systems,
and consequent discharge of untreated domestic and industrial wastewater into water
courses due to inadequate collection and treatment facilities. The generation of solid waste
in urban areas is increasing rapidly, particularly packaging, plastic and other
noncompostable materials associated with rising income levels. In particular, industrial
waste, containing toxic and hazardous materials, poses a major disposal problem. At
present, domestic and industrial waste is disposed not to sanitary landfills but to
uncontrolled dump sites and part composted, resulting in hazards to farmers, and pollution
of watercourses from leachate seepage from the dump sites.
4.    This project focuses on three areas in Yunnan where the economies and
environmental conditions particularly reflect the situation outlined above. These are (a) the
Lake Dianchi Basin Catchment, which includes Kunming, the largest city in the province
and the political and commercial capital of Yunnan; (b) Qujing city; and (c) Gejiu city.



- 65 -                      ANNEX2
5.    Kunming is located at the north end of Lake Dianchi. Although Yunnan is rich in
water resources, the Dianchi catchment is a water-scarce area. Ever-increasing domestic
and industrial demands cause conflict with existing agricultural and irrigation water uses.
Kunming draws its water supply in part from Lake Dianchi and partly from the Songhuaba
reservoir, which was originally built to serve irrigation demands in areas to the north and
east of Kunming city. At present most of the domestic wastewater from Kunming's 1.2
million residents, together with industrial wastewater flows, is discharged largely untreated
into Lake Dianchi through various streams and watercourses flowing through the city areas.
As a result, the lake has become polluted and eutrophication is occurring, caused by
excessive nutrient discharges (mainly phosphorus and nitrogen). These nutrients originate
from domestic sewage and certain industrial activities, such as fertilizer production. Two
large fertilizer factories, situated at the south end of the lake are major contributors of
phosphorus to the lake. This deterioration in water quality in the lake is such that one of the
city's water works has been closed down due to the poor water quality. Songhuaba
catchment, which now provides more than 50 percent of Kunming's water supplies, is being
used increasingly for high-intensity agricultural and industrial activities. Protection of this
catchment is also important to prevent degradation of the water quality in the reservoir and
safeguard this water resource for Kunming.
6.    The Yunnan Provincial Government has recognized the need to halt and reverse this
environmental decline and has initiated various actions to address this issue. Environmental
Protection Bureaus at all levels of government, established in line with central government
mandates, have initiated monitoring of environmental conditions and regulation of
industrial discharges. In addition, Kunming Municipality has established a Lake Dianchi
Protection Committee.
7.    The Caohai, or inner Lake Dianchi, which accounts for 2.5 percent of the lake area,
receives about 50 percent of Kunming's wastewater, and is seriously polluted. The Caohai
has recently been separated from the outer lake (the Waihai) by an earthen bund which is
fitted with control gates, and a 4.5 km long tunnel (Xiyuan Tunnel) constructed to discharge
water from the Caohai to a tributary of the Tanglangchuan River. The objectives of this
construction are (a) to increase the flood protection capacity of the lake; and (b) to prevent
polluted water from the Caohai from entering the main outer lake water body.
8.    Actions have been taken to substitute Songhuaba water with Dianchi water for
irrigation uses, thus freeing more higher-quality water from Songhuaba reservoir for
Kunming's water supply. Demand management measures have been initiated, including the
establishment of a Water Savings Office to help reduce wastage and unaccounted-for water.
Domestic solid waste collection is reasonably effective in the city's central areas but needs
to be expanded to include the suburban areas.
9.    Qujing lies on the Nanpanjiang River, which is a tributary of the Pearl River system,
about 120 km northeast from Kunming. The city is the second largest in the province, with
a current population of about 161,500, and is expanding rapidly with an anticipated
population of some 570,000 by year 2020. The area is rich in natural resources with many



- 66 -                     ANNEX2
industries established in and around Qujing including chemical, metal processing, textiles,
plastics, tobacco and automobile industries. The environmental problems in Qujing are
similar to those experienced by Kunming, resulting from inadequate municipal
environmental services that have failed to keep pace with the urban growth.
10.   Gejiu city is located some 300 km to the southeast from Kumning, has a present
population around 134,000. This figure is expected to reach some 180,000 by the year
2020. The city has developed around Gejiu Lake, which was formed some 50 years ago as
a result of flood events. The economy of Gejiu depends almost entirely on tin mining and
processing activities in and around the city.
11.   The proposed project will include both immediate interventions to reduce
environmental pollution and longer-term initiatives to support a sustainable and equitable
framework for economic growth. There is urgent need to halt and reverse the current
downward spiral of environmental degradation in the selected urban areas. Achieving
sustainable and equitable development requires a blend of integrated institutional, financial
and technical actions. The specific objectives of the project are to (a) strengthen policies,
regulations, and institutional arrangements for pollution control, municipal wastewater,
solid waste and nightsoil management; (b) support the improvement of the lakes
environment in Gejiu and Kunming in order to allow the waters to be used for domestic and
industrial supply and in agriculture; (c) support complimentary investments in pollution
control and municipally-provided urban environmental services; and (d) introduce a
comprehensive approach to planning, prioritization, and financing of urban environmental
infrastructure investments.
A. DIANCHI BASIN MANAGEMENT
Kunming
Kunming Municipal Solid Waste Management
12.   Kunming, the province's major city , is rapidly developing; its older, urban center is
under massive redevelopment; and its suburbs are continually expanding. Its current
population is approximately 1.2 million, which according to the city's Master Plan is
expected to increase to 2.2 million by 2005. The collection of solid waste in the city's
urban districts is being carried out in a satisfactory manner, but collection in suburban
districts is constrained by a lack of vehicles, fewer staff and longer collection distances.
Disposal of the city's 9,000 tpd (1,000 tpd domestic, 8,000 tpd other) at seven informal
dump sites is the most pressing problem. In order for waste arrangement facility to be able
to cope with this growth, more efficient, long term solutions need to be developed.
Population and Solid Waste Generation Trends
13.   Kunming municipality consists of four major districts, two urban, Panlong and
Wuhua, and two peri-urban or suburban districts, Guandu and Xishan. Population densities
2
differ markedly ranging from approximately 8,000 inhabitants/kM  in Xishan to almost



- 67 -                      ANNEX2
35,000 inhabitants/km' for Panlong. The 1995 populations of Guandu and Xishan were
533,000 and 284,000, respectively. It is these areas that will experience the most growth in
the future with expected populations reaching 715,000 and 374,000, respectively, by 2005.
In contrast, the populations of Panlong and Wuhua are both close to 500,000, but they are
expected to grow by only some 16 percent by 2005. Currently most of the domestic,
market, and commercial wastes and street sweepings are collected in Panlong and Wuhua
but not in Guandu and Xishan. It is expected that annual waste generation will follow these
population trends.
14.   In 1993, the solid waste collection rates in the two urban districts were 870 tpd, and
for the two suburban districts only 86 tpd, indicating a low efficiency of collection in those
districts. A visit to these areas generally confirms that much of the waste is not collected
but thrown along the street or in drains. An estimate of this quantity is 400 tpd. On the
positive side, the most recent data (1994) suggests that some 1,032 tpd are being collected
in Kunming.
Waste Composition Trends
15.   The major expected trend in waste composition will be toward lower density as the
ash content decreases. In areas where coal is used as fuel, ash compromises almost
3
70 percent of the solid waste, resulting in a density of almost 600 kg/mi. In areas where gas
is used, there is a complete absence of ashes, resulting in a density of only 370 kg/mi. The
organic fraction (mainly kitchen residues) changes appreciably, representing only
20 percent in areas where coal is used but 75 percent in areas with gas. The corollary is that
the daily per capita waste generation in coal-burning areas is between 0.8 and 0.9 kg and in
those with gas it is 0.35. These trends will have a significant impact on the collection and
disposal system but for regional planning purposes, a figure of 0.5 kg/capita/d is still
frequently used.
Current Management Practices
16.   Existing Collection Methods.  There are several categories of daily waste
collection practices in Kunming. There is a combination of 220 liter bins (4,000 in
number); apartment house chutes into I mi3 bins; the use of concrete "vats" into which
residents deposit their refuse; and the use of compactor trucks on the "bell" system. Much
of the waste collected by handcarts and tricycles goes to eight small transfer stations (STS)
located in the urban areas. There are no transfer stations in the suburban districts of Guandu
and Xishan.
17.   Collection vehicles include a combination of handcarts (609), tricycles (214) and
close to 150 trucks, ranging in capacity from 0.45 to 5.0 tons. Many of the smaller vehicles,
bicycles and tricycles (0.45 to 2.0 tons) are operated in the urban areas with very few
vehicles working the suburban districts. Staff resources for collection total just over 3,000
for the two urban districts and approximately 400 for the suburban areas. Clearly, many of
the staff in the urban areas are street sweepers.



- 68 -                      ANNEX2
18.   Collection issues include a heavy reliance on manual labor, resulting in double
handling where bicycles and tricycles are involved without a unified container system. In
addition, the 220 liter bins have a life of only two years due to mechanical damnage and
corrosion; the 7 m3 containers used at the STSs appear to be too small; and compactor
trucks are not considered useful since the waste does not compact easily. A more important
point is that the efficiency of collection is low and some areas are either not served or
served badly.
19.   Current Disposal Methods. Disposal as currently practiced is haphazard, with
much of the waste dumped in open areas around the city. In Xishan and Guandu there is
evidence of extensive dumping in open areas and alongside rivers and roads. During the
last 10 to 15 years some 2.8 million tons have been dumped at seven sites around the city.
The two largest sites, Wanglonqing in the northwest and Laohuashan in the east have
received approximately 2.4 million tons. All these sites represent environmental hazards,
since there is leachate collection, compaction or daily cover. One of the objectives of this
project will be to close these sites.
Institutional Responsibilities
20.   Overall management responsibility for the collection and disposal of solid waste in
the Municipality of Kunming rests with the Kunming City Appearance Committee;
leadership and guidance is provided by the Kunming Municipal Environmental Sanitation
Section. This Section is developing the new landfills proposed for Kunming. The actual
collection and transfer of wastes to the dump sites is undertaken by the District
Environmental Sanitation Sections (DESS).
Strategies for the 21st Century
21.   As the population and suburban infrastructure of the city continue to grow, a new
and modem management approach to the solid waste problem needs to be taken. Major
investments are required, including transfer stations; a broad range of collection vehicles,
each suited to a specific purpose; heavy, large transfer vehicles; and state-of-the-art
landfills. The municipality has made a conscious decision to move in this direction with the
assistance of Bank/IDA financing for equipment and institutional investmnents. Investments
that are under consideration include low-technology collection vehicles such as tricycles,
minitrucks, rear-loading trucks; small and medium transfer stations; landfills and attendant
facilities; training; special studies and other types of institutional development activities.
22.   These modem solutions require significant capital expenditure and therefore require
cost recovery schemes. To date, very little revenue has been collected for domestic refuse
collection, but a new law (September 22, 1995) has been enacted authorizing the collection
of fees. The fee for household waste was established at Y 5 per household per month, to be
collected by the environmental sanitation department of the operating district. Enterprises
and government units will have to pay rates ranging from Y 60 to Y 70 per month, but it is
not clear if this is a flat or per ton charge. To date there are no plans for administrative units
to collect these fees and provide accounting and other financial services.



- 69 -                      ANNEX2
Recommended Collection and Transfer Approach
23.   Expected Waste Generation and Composition. The domestic waste collection
forecast for the year 2000 is some 1,512 tpd increasing to 1,646 tpd by the year 2005. The
fraction of households using gas is estimated to be about 70 percent in 2000 rising to almost
75 percent by 2005. However, the average per capita generation rate stays about the same,
between 0.45 and 0.49 kg, because per capita waste generation rises with expected
prosperity but falls with the increasing use of gas. The effects of these two factors appear to
be compensating. Discussions with urban planners and a willingness to pay survey carried
out by YEPO (August 1995) indicated that roughly 1,500 tons of domestic waste will be
collected in the year 2000.
24.   Vehicles and Containers Required. In order to deal with the above waste
quantities in the year 2000, trends in composition and source characteristics, the following
collection vehicles will need to be procured under this project (there are additional vehicles
needed, but they will be procured using local funds):
(a)   40, 2.5 t small compactor trucks
(b)   40, 12 m3 fore and aft trucks
(c)   26, 16 m3 container carrying trucks
(d)   22,24 m3 container carrying trucks
(e)   5, 1.7 m3 loaders at each MTS
(f)   5, mini-bus and cars at each MTS
(g)   52, 16 m3 containers
(h)   50, 24 m3 containers
Note: A large number of smaller bins and plastic containers will also be procured using
local funds.
25.   Transfer Stations Required. Small transfer stations (STSs) able to receive wastes
from cyclists and minitrucks are needed for many urban areas. As of November 1995,
some 8 STSs were in operation handling about 30 tpd during a 5- to 6-hour shift. The old
STSs have limited storage capacity and 13 new STSs are therefore recommended. These
new stations will be capable of handling 60 tpd through the use of 16 m3 bins that can easily
loaded directly on to trucks. These stations will collect some 600 tpd delivered by
minitrucks and the private sector, which will be transported directly to the landfills.
26.   Five new medium-size transfer stations (MTSs) will be required to receive wastes
from STSs and larger, rear-loading trucks. These stations would handle 900 tpd through
16 m3 containers as well, which could handle some 15,000 kg of refuse of density
600 kg/m3. These stations would be at sites outside the two urban areas so that they could
easily serve larger areas.
27.   In addition to the transfer stations, transfer trucks will be required. The existing and
new STSs will need 26 trucks capable of carrying 16 m3 containers. The new MTSs will
require 22 arm-roll trucks capable of carrying 24 m3 containers.



- 70 -                      ANNEX2
Recommended Disposal Approach
28.   Two major landfills are proposed under this project, the Honshuitang site, located
19 km to the northwest of Kunming, and the Baishuitang site located 20 km to the
southeast. These two locations were selected from some 25 sites within 30 km of Kunming
that were under consideration earlier in the project cycle. Honshuitang will receive about
600 to 700 tpd during its first phase of 11 years. Its effective volume is about 10 million m3
and it should have a life of 21 years. Baishuitang has the same effective volume and will
receive approximately 900 tpd during its first phase of 13 years. Its life has also been
estimated at 21 years.
29.   A minimum of infrastructure is already in place at Honshuitang, and geotechnical
investigations have begun and the site acquired. The Baishuitang site will be leased under a
30-year agreement for Y 150,000 annually.
Hongshuitang Landfill
30.   Site Characteristics. The Hongshuitang site has several geotechnical problems that
require resolution. The operational part of the site covers an area of approximately
0.65 km2 that will be developed in three phases. The site is bifurcated by a fault line
running north and south in a karst limestone area. The area has a number of karst fissures
and funnels that will be filled with a soil cement mix. The area is low to moderately hilly,
with a natural slope and change in elevation of about 115 m in the shape of an ellipse. It is
a recharge area for a perched aquifer with the flow in the direction of Songshanpu Spring.
However, the larger regional groundwater system does not appear to be affected by
precipitation falling on the site. The engineering geology includes slope deposited red clay
of varying depth throughout the site, at 2 to 5 m. Although the permeability coefficient
varies widely, a figure of 4.14xlO7 cm/sec is cited (ideal is 10- cm/sec), making it a
relatively favorable site. There also appears to be some seismic risk, which is prevalent
throughout the area. Detailed design features will be incorporated in order to take account
of this risk.
31.   Facility Design. The site will be developed in three phases, each constructed
separately and operated as needed over the life of the landfill. Three of the most critical
aspects of landfill design are the liner, leachate collection and treatment system, and a
surface water drainage system around the periphery of the site. The proposed liner includes
a 30 cm bottom clay layer, a geomembrane, 20 cm of coarse sand, a second geomembrane
topped with 10 cm of clay. The geomembrane will not be used throughout the site, in
critical areas where the natural clay liner is too thin. Based on the drawings, some 30
percent of the landfill will be lined with synthetic material. The leachate collection system
consists of a pattern of gravel drains inside a circular geotextile fabric. There will be no
leachate treatment system, but instead a retention pond or tank meeting first phase needs
with a volume of 20,000 m3. The leachate is to be recirculated through the landfill to be
absorbed and evaporated. The size of the pond has been calculated to meet needs during the
rainy season and therefore there should not be any net flow from the system. In order to



- 71-                      ANNEX2
prevent runoff from adjacent areas from entering the site a series of peripheral drains will
constructed. The flow will be drained without treatment via the Shalang River. Gas
coming from the landfill is to be collected via the vertical lines in the leachate collection
system and flared.
Institutional Strengthening
32.   A program of institutional strengthening would be undertaken in order that the
investments proposed will be sustainable over the long term and that the responsible
agencies will be able to meet continuing challenges. This program will consist of a study
on industrial and hazardous waste management in the Dianchi basin, technical assistance on
the development of improved collection vehicles, technical assistance for improved
management at municipal and district environmental sanitation sections; an impact
marketing study; and a regional solid waste management study.
33.   Proposed Component ($28.1 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Hongshuitang Landfill comprising site preparation and construction of a
new landfill with capacity of about 9 million (M) mi3 at a site some 19 km to
the northwest of the city, including leachate and gas collection/treatment
systems, site facilities and operational vehicles and plant.
(b)   Baishuitang Landfill comprising sitepreparation and construction of a new
landfill with capacity of about 10 Mm at a site some 20 km to the southeast
of the city, including leachate and gas collection/treatment systems, site
facilities and operational vehicles and plant.
(c)   Transfer Stations. Construction of about 18 transfer stations throughout
the city.
(d)   Collection and Transportation Vehicles.  Procurement of about 138
collection and tr;nsportation vehicles in sizes between 3 and 24 m3 capacity
and about 102 containers of 16 m3 and 24 m3 capacity.
(e)   Institutional Development and Training.  Provision of institutional
development and practical training for both management and operational
personnel, with particular attention being given to the control, management
and monitoring necessary for effective sanitary landfill operations.
Kunming Water Supply
34.   The present population provided with water supply from the municipal system in
Kunming is estimated around 1.49 million (84.5 percent of the total population). This
number is projected to reach 2.41 million in the year 2020, representing some 90 percent of
the total population projected at that time. Average water demand projections, based on



-72 -                      ANNEX2
gross per capita figures (covering domestic, commercial and industrial uses), ranging from
305 I/c/d in 1995 to 355 lIc/d in 2020, are estimated around 538,000 m3/d in 1995 rising to
some 953,000 m3/d by year 2020. Peak demands are estimated at 619,000 and 1,096,000
m3/d respectively in 1995 and 2020, thus demonstrating a clear need to augment the
availability of fully treated water in the short term, to meet the demand forecasts.
35.   Water resources are presently drawn from Lake Dianchi, Songhuaba reservoir and
groundwater in the ratio 57:40:3 percent respectively. The Songhuaba reservoir built in
1958, was raised by 14.7 m in 1994 in order to increase storage for flood protection and
potable water use, although, as yet, the water level has not been raised to the new maximum
storage level due to resettlement and related issues that are not resolved. Alternative
proposals to reduce the area of land to be inundated at the upstream end of the reservoir are
included in this project.
36.   It is reported that in 1995 analyses of Songhuaba water indicate good quality
generally complying with Grade II of Chinese Standard 3838, apart from occasional high
manganese values. On the other hand, Lake Dianchi water quality has deteriorated
significantly over recent years, in the range Grade III to below Grade V of the standard. As
a consequence, the Kunming Water Supply Company (KWSC) decided to maximize the
use of water from the Songhuaba source. The existing treatment capacities and water
sources are summarized as follows:
Capacity                             Peak Demand, m3/d
Water Treatment Plant   m3 /d            Status             2005     2010
Songhuaba Source
WTP No.1.             80,000   needs improvement
WTP No.2              50,000   ditto
WTP No.6A            100,000  new
WTP No.4              50,000   needs improvement
Subtotal          280,000
Lake Dianchi Source
WTP No.3             (30,000)  out of service, poor water
quality
WTP No.5             200,000  existing
WTP No.6B            100,000  under construction
Subtotal          300,000
Groundwater           15,000
Total              595,000                              876,000  985,000
37.   The treatment process adopted by KWSC for the good quality Songhuaba water
consists of chemically assisted flocculation, tube module settlement, rapid gravity filtration,



- 73 -                     ANNEX2
chlorination and storage. In the case of Lake Dianchi water, dissolved air flotation, dual
media filters, ozonation and powdered activated carbon are being provided at the WTP
No. 6B which is currently under construction.
38.   KWSC and its consultants evaluated a number of alternative strategies for the
augmentation of treated water supplies for Kunming, and selected the least cost option
based on conjunctive use of the Dianchi Lake and Songhuaba sources, maximizing the use
of the better quality Songhuaba resource.
39.   Under this project, the capacity of WTP No. 1 would be extended by 70,000 mr3/d
and the 100,000 m /d first phase of a new WTP at Beijiaochang would be provided. These
works would be supplied through a new 1,600 mm diameter pipeline from Songhuaba
reservoir. Thus the total treatment capacity for the city would be increased to around
765,000 m3/d, which would meet the 2005 average demand. The further expansion of
Beijiaochang works to 200,000 m3/d would be required to meet future demand. The project
includes the provision of distribution pipework and system connections and a storage
reservoir of 10,000 m3 capacity for treated water, located on high ground some 4 km to the
west of Beijiaochang.
40.   Proposed Component ($40.3 million). The proposed component is as follows:
(a)   Songhuaba Raw  Water Pipeline comprising pressure pipeline of
prestressed concrete construction, or other materials, in sizes about 1,000 to
1,600 mm diameter, control valves and facilities, of about 13.5 km total
length.
(b)   Beijiaochang  Water  Treatment  Plant  comprising  flocculation,
clarification, filtration, chlorination, storage, pumping and ancillary
facilities, of about 100,000 m3/d capacity.
(c)   Xiaotunshan Storage Reservoir of reinforced concrete construction with a
capacity of about 10,000 mi3.
(d)   Distribution System Connections comprising pressure pipelines of steel,
prestressed concrete or other materials, totaling about 12 km in sizes about
800 to 1,200 mm diameter.
(e)   Water Treatment Plant No. 1 Extension comprising flocculation,
clarification, filtration, chlorination, storage, pumping and ancillary
facilities, of about 70,000 m3/d capacity.
(f)   Metering and Equipment of Unaccounted-for Water Management
comprising flow/pressure measuring, leak detection, meters and related
equipment.



- 74 -                     ANNEX2
(g)   Songhuaba Reservoir Augmentation comprising facilities in connection
with conjunctive use of resources.
Kunming Wastewater
41.   A Sewerage Master Plan for Kunming was prepared with bilateral assistance and
approved in 1990. This plan, although somewhat overtaken by unplanned development, has
provided the basis for sewerage investments to date in Kunming.
42.   Wastewater flows from the central and suburban areas of Kunming have been
projected through 2020 (the adopted planning horizon), by considering various assumptions
for growth, access to sewer connections and water use projections. Based on the adopted
scenario, which is considered appropriate and consistent with the city development
projections, wastewater flows are projected to reach about 780,000 m3/d by 2020, with
rapid growth expected in the suburban areas. Details are summarized as follows:
Kunming Total Wastewater m3/d
1995           2000           2010           2020
City center        170,500        206,800        246,100         271,600
Suburbs                  -        181,100         361,100        508,500
Total           170,500         387,900        607,200        780,100
43.   Wastewater treatment in Kunming is limited to two sewage treatment works (Nos. 1
and 2) of capacity 55,000 m /d and 100,000 m3/d, which treat water pumped from an
adjacent river in the southern and eastern areas of the city. Further STWs (Nos. 3 and 4A
covering the northern and western areas of the city) are under construction. When
commissioned, these new works would increase the treatment capacity to about
210,000 m3/d, substantially below the projected need, even for the short term. Some
combined sewer systems cover the old downtown area, and at present most urban
wastewater is ultimately discharged to the Dianchi Lake, largely to the Waihai, contributing
to organic pollution of the lake and contributing a substantial proportion of the loads of
nutrients (nitrogen and phosphorus), thereby enhancing the lake eutrophication.
44.   An important focus of the wastewater treatment proposals is therefore the removal
of both nitrogen and phosphorus from the wastewater. This will be achieved by the design
of the activated sludge system proposed for all wastewater treatment plants to remove both
nitrogen and phosphorus. This involves a staged anaerobic, anoxic and aerobic activated
sludge process (the A20 process) to remove in the order of 75 percent of the phosphorus
and nitrogen loads.
45.   The project would support the construction of comprehensive interceptor sewer
systems throughout city and suburban areas to ensure that wastewater is conveyed to the



- 75 -                     ANNEX2
treatment locations. Additional wastewater treatment capacity of about 190,000 m3/d in
city and suburban areas would also be included, bringing the total capacity to around
545,000 m3/d at the end of the project. This would meet the anticipated need through year
2008 and beyond in the event that development and wastewater flows are below the
assumed projections.
46.   Proposed Component ($113.7 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Central Area Sewerage Rehabilitation including the construction of about
54 km of sewers and force mains in sizes about 300 to 1,800 mm diameter,
several pump stations of about 225,000 m3/d total capacity, and about
0.8 km of culvert construction of about 4.0 m wide and 2.0 m high in size.
(b)   Link and Connecting Sewers comprising pipe connections related
structures to connect the existing wastewater discharge pipes to the sewerage
rehabilitation system.
(c)   Southwestern Suburbs Sewerage Systems including the construction of
about 4.0 km of trunk and secondary sewers and force mains in sizes about
1,000 to 1,400 mm diameter, and pump stations of about 20,000 m3/d total
capacity.
(d)   Sewage Treatment Works No. 1 Uprating/Extension  comprising
additional aeration capacity (designed to remove phosphorus and nitrogen),
sludge treatment and ancillary facilities of about 25,000 m3/d additional
capacity, including inlet culvert of reinforced concrete, or other construction,
and extension works of about 40,000 m3/d capacity with screens, grit
removal, biological treatment based on the activated sludge process and
incorporating phosphorus and nitrogen removal, sludge treatment and
ancillary facilities.
(e)   Northern Suburbs Sewerage Systems including the construction of about
61 km of trunk and secondary sewers in sizes about 300 to 1,800 mm
diameter, and ancillary structures.
(f)   Sewage Treatment Works No. 4B of capacity about 75,000 m3/d
comprising screens, pumping, grit removal, biological treatment based on
the activated sludge process and incorporating phosphorus and nitrogen
removal, secondary clarification, sludge treatmnent and disposal, ancillary
and administrative facilities.
(g)   Eastern Suburbs Sewerage Systems including the construction of about
25 km of trunk and secondary sewers in sizes about 300 to 1,600 mm
diameter, and ancillary structures.



- 76 -                     ANNEX2
(h)   Sewage Treatment Works No. 5 of capacity about 50,000 m3/d comprising
screens, pumping, grit removal, biological treatment based on the activated
sludge process and incorporating phosphorus and nitrogen removal,
secondary clarification, sludge treatment and disposal, ancillary and
administrative facilities.
(i)    Western Suburbs Sewerage including the construction of about 54 km of
trunk and secondary sewers and force mains in sizes about 300 to 1,400 mm
diameter, and several pump stations of about 345,000 m3/d total capacity.
(j)   Sewer Cleaning and Safety Equipment for use throughout the city,
including bucket cleaning equipment, hoists, transportation, and safety
equipment.
Small Towns Wastewater
47.   This component comprises the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater
from the county towns of Chenggong and Jinning, which lie in the catchment area of Lake
Dianchi. At present, the domestic and industrial wastewaters from both these towns
discharge directly into the lake, contributing significantly to the nutrient pollution of the
lake (3 to 6 percent of the total). The present population at Chenggong is reported about
30,000, this is expected to reach some 167,000 by year 2020 according to the Chenggong
County Master Plan. Wastewater flow projections for Chenggong estimate the flow at
about 15,000 m'/d in 2010, rising to about 30,000 m'/d by year 2020. The Jinning
population is reported about 30,000 at present, and projected to reach 80-100,000 by year
2020, with wastewater flows projected in the range 11,000 to 17,600 m3/d in 2010 and 2020
respectively.
48.   Proposed Component ($15.2 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Chenggong Sewerage System including the construction of about 23 km of
trunk and secondary sewers in sizes about 300 to 900 mm diameter.
(b)   Chenggong Sewage Treatment Works of capacity about 15,000 m3/d
comprising screens, pumping, grit removal, primary clarification, biological
treatment based on the activated sludge process and incorporating
phosphorus and nitrogen removal, secondary clarification, sludge treatment
and disposal, ancillary and administrative facilities.
(c)   Jinning Sewerage System including the construction of about 8 km of
trunk and secondary sewers in sizes about 400 to 1,000 mm diarneter.
(d)   Jinning Sewage Treatment Works of capacity about 15,000 m3/d
comprising screens, pumping, grit removal, primary clarification, biological
treatment based on the activated sludge process and incorporating



- 77 -                     ANNEX2
phosphorus and nitrogen removal, secondary clarification, sludge treatment
and disposal, ancillary and administrative facilities.
Rural Sanitation
49.   Proposed Component ($2.3 million). The objective of this component is to
demonstrate appropriate wastewater treatment technology for replication in the rural areas
of the Dianchi and Songhuaba catchments. The project includes three pilot projects in the
villages of Dounan, Wulong and Xiaohe. Specifically, these pilot projects consist of
village-level wastewater collection and treatment systems, nightsoil and municipal solid
waste utilization, afforestation, drainage, farm-level environmental improvements and water
supply. The principal purpose of these investments is to provide a knowledge and empirical
base for the dissemination of affordable, village-level approaches to waste management.
50.   In Xiaohe the projects comprise: (a) the use of household-level anaerobic digesters
for nightsoil and animal waste disposal for the production of gas for cooking and lighting;
(b) afforestation of some 16,000 mu to reduce soil erosion; (c) improved agricultural waste
management practices; and (d) a collection system for domestic wastewater currently
polluting much of the village streets.
51.   In Dounan, the projects comprise: (a) a 30 tpd composting plant to compost the
community's municipal soil waste, with the compost being used as soil conditioner for
degraded, adjacent farmland; (b) improved agricultural waste management practices on
some 2,700 mu; (c) rehabilitation and expansion of a 500 m31d water supply system; and
(d) a low-cost wastewater collection and treatment system using a land treatment approach.
52.   In Walong the projects comprise:  (a) 1,000 household-level composters;
(b) improved agricultural waste management practices for some 3,000 mu; (c) a well-based
water supply system of 500 m3/d capacity; (d) a combined drainage system with primary
sedimentation; (e) a lotus pond wetland for treatment of the effluent coming from (d) above;
and (f) a hydroponic vegetable production system.
B. GEJIu
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
53.   Gejiu Lake is a shallow lake, and was formned about 50 years ago through landslides
resulting from flood events at the time. Sewerage within Gejiu, a city with a population of
about 134,000, is a combined system discharging into the lake. Silt from tailing ponds
associated with tin mining and processing and runoff from deforested hillsides have added
to the problem of pollution in the lake. The water level in the lake has to be controlled to
avoid flooding within Gejiu; to prevent the adverse visual impact of low water levels. In
addition, the State Tin Corporation abstracts about 25 percent of its washwater requirements
from the lake.



- 78 -                      ANNEX2
54.   The Gejiu wastewater component is designed to address the pollution of the Gejiu
Lake, which is located immediately next to the central district of Gejiu, and accessible to
large numbers of residents. Due to the substantial quantities of untreated sewage currently
discharged to the lake, it is significantly polluted and the water quality has been
progressively degraded.
55.   The component provides for the collection, treatment and disposal of the wastewater
currently discharged to the lake, together with arrangements for pumping of flood flows
during the wet season to prevent flooding of low lying areas of the city, and provisions for
restoring the water balance during drought periods to maintain water levels for reasons of
amenity and water abstraction. The wastewater system includes interceptor sewers around
the lake shore; pumping of foul sewage and flood flows, high rate biological treatment of
foul sewage, prior to discharge to a river used for irrigation purposes, and facility to sustain
water balance of the lake. The improved water quality would enhance the amenity,
recreation and land use value of the surrounding area.
56.   Proposed Component ($7.9 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Interceptor and Conveyor Sewer Systems including about 3.7 km of
sewers ranging in size from about 600 to 800 mm diameter. Pump station
with a wastewater capacity of about 40,000 m 3/d and a stormwater capacity
of about 200,000 m /d. Wastewater conveyor of about 3.9 km length in
800 mm diameter force main and gravity sewer. Stormwater force main of
about 1,000 mm diameter, length 0.5 km.
(b)   Storm Drainage System including rehabilitation of existing culvert about
2.5 km long, and construction of about 1.3 km of concrete-lined tunnel of
size about 2.2 m high * 2.2 m wide, complete with integral wastewater
culvert.
(c)   Sewage Treatment Works comprising screens, grit removal facilities, high
rate activated sludge treatment with waste sludge stabilization and disposal,
and ancillary facilities for about 25,000 m3/d capacity.
(d)   Water Balance Facilities for Gejiu Lake comprising storage tanks of total
capacity about 1.5 MM3, for controlled release to Gejiu Lake (not financed
in this project).
C. QUJING
Municipal Solid Waste Management
57.   Qujing is a newly developing industrial city located about 150 km to the northeast
of Kunming. Much of the city was built in the last 10 years as a result of economic
development in the surrounding area. Infrastructure development has not kept pace.



- 79 -                     ANNEX2
Although the center of the city is clean and tidy, the peri-urban areas suffer from
indiscriminate dumping of waste. Approximately 200 tpd (between 170 and 220 tpd
depending on the season) are collected, representing roughly 80 percent of domestic waste
generated by a population of about 220,000. Authorities expect the solid waste quantities to
rise by 8 percent annually up to the year 2000 and by 5 percent up to the year 2010,
exceeding 400 tpd at the end of this period. As in Kunming, the increasing use of gas rather
than coal is moderating this projected increase somewhat in reducing the ash content of the
waste.
Overall Project Objectives
58.   The key objectives of the solid waste management programs in Qujing are:
(a)   Effective and efficient collection and disposal of domestic and industrial
solid waste, particularly in the suburban areas;
(b)   Safe disposal of hazardous wastes from industries and hospitals;
(c)   The reduction, reuse and recycling of waste;
(d)   The development of a disposal approach consisting of a system of transfer
stations and landfills;
(e)   The stabilization and closure of existing dumps; and
(f)   Improved operations and policy development through a program  of
institution building, training and developing approaches to enhanced cost
recovery for solid waste management services.
Population and Solid Waste Generation Trends
59.   From limited population trends and the growth of the sector during the early 1990s,
projections for solid waste generation in Qujing have been estimated. For the years 1991
through 1993, daily generation increased from 105 to 153 tpd. The unusually high growth
rate is primarily due to the incorporation of new areas into the Municipality of Qujing.
Based on the above growth rates, by 2000 waste generation will be 262 tpd and by 2005 it
will reach 335 tpd. The per capita generation at present is approximately 0.76 kg/d, much
of which is ash from coal burning.
Waste Compositional Trends
60.   Waste composition trends will be similar to that of Kunming in that the expected
rate of gas usage will increase to 40 percent in 2000 and to 73 percent in 2010 according to
the master plan for the city. The inorganic portion, primarily ash, will decline from 61
percent in 1995 to 20 percent by 2010. The per capita generation rate for the planning
period is expected to remain high despite the reduction of ash content, at 0.84 kg/d per



- 80 -                      ANNEX2
capita. This will also have a significant impact on refuse compactability, density and
landfill requirement.
Current Management Practices
61.   Current collection and disposal practices mirror those of Kunming, the center of the
city receiving a disproportionate amount of services compared to peri-urban areas. Of the
roughly 200 tpd of waste that are collected, 45 percent is collected by the Municipality and
the rest is delivered by a combination of trucks and handcarts from institutions and
commercial establishments. The collection of this waste is funded by the generators.
Sanitation staff number some 400 which include sweepers, collection people, drivers and
management personnel. There are over 1,000 refuse cans scattered throughout the city but
primarily in central areas. In addition, some 190 specialized refuse bins and 140 handcarts
are in use. As in Kunming, the collection system is highly manual with much double
handling. The Municipality operates 11 refuse trucks, four nightsoil pumping trucks and
five general-purpose small dump trucks.
62.   Disposal remains the principal issue in Qujing. Two dump sites located at the edge
of the city are used; a composting plant built in 1992 has now ceased to operate. Another
old dump site has been walled off and formally closed with the waste in place being
composted and sorted.
Institutional Responsibilities
63.   The principal government agency responsible for municipal solid  waste
management in Qujing is the Municipal Environmental Sanitation Office. The feasibility
study for the component mentions plans to create a separate transfer and disposal company.
To date nothing has been done to move the municipality in this direction. Therefore, it is
assumed that the major responsibility for implementing this component will remain with the
Sanitation Department.
Recommended Collection Approach
64.   Based on the analysis carried out, an entirely new approach to transfer and disposal
is recommended. Collection will basically be carried out as at present, with the exception
of improved coverage in the peripheral areas of the city. Transfer and disposal will
incorporate the use of six transfer station, five in Qujing proper and one in Zhanyi to the
north, and a sanitary landfill located between the two cities.
65.   Transfer Stations. Two small transfer stations will be built, each capable of
handling approximately 60 tpd. The distances to the new landfill are 2 to 3 km for the
station located in Qujing and 3 km for the one located in Zhanyi. In 1998, for example,
some 225 tpd will be collected and of this 60 percent will go through the transfer stations,
with the remaining amount going directly to the landfill. As the generation exceeds 400 tpd
around 2010, the transfer stations will have to accommodate 100 tpd. Initially, each transfer
station will be equipped with an 8-ton (16 m3)container carrying truck used for transfer



- 81-                       ANNEX2
purposes and one 5-ton rear-loading truck used primarily for direct collection and
subsequent discharge at the landfill. The dump trucks should be able to complete one round
trip to the landfill per hour and therefore dispose of roughly 50 tpd.
66.   Vehicles and Containers Required.
(a)   4, 8 t (14 m3 ) container carrying trucks
(b)   9, 5 t (8 m3 ) container carrying trucks
Recommended Disposal Approach
67.   Dagou/Xiaopo Landfill. A new landfill some 6 km northwest from Qujing city
center is proposed, located in a rear valley of Xiaopo Village and Taihe Mountain. The
volume of the landfill is 1,770,000 m3, which would suffice for 15 to 17 years depending on
such factors as landfill operations and refuse composition. The site is well situated in low
mountains and is basically in a V-shaped valley with about 150 m of relief. It is rocky and
the vegetation is sparse, basically scrub. Very little of the area is used for agricultural
purposes because of its low productivity and arid conditions. The site also has significant
clay, in some places as deep as 15 m, with permeability ranging from 10-2 to 104 cm/s,
which is much less than ideal.
68.   An access road will need to be built of some 1.5 km in length and a site road of
1.2 km is also needed in order to use the site completely during its two filling phases. Two
filling phases are required because of the unusual topography and severe slopes. Each
phase will last approximately seven to eight years and require construction of a leachate
control and landfill stabilization dam so that refuse can be worked on a horizontal surface.
A water control ditch will also be built around the site to catch and discharge runoff before
it has a chance to penetrate the fill.
69.   In order to control leachate, grouting methods will be applied and a synthetic liner
used. A leachate collection system similar to that being applied in the Kunming landfills
would be provided. There will be no direct treatment of leachate but a storage basin of
7,500 m3 capacity would be provided. Leachate would be recirculated through the landfill
or piped to a nearby wastewater treatment plant. Based on the current wastewater flow at
the treatrnent plant, the leachate would increase the flow only between 2 and 4 percent.
70.   A gas collection system is also being proposed to work in tandem with the leachate
collection system. The gas will be flared.
71.   Proposed Component ($4.5 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)    Dagou/Xiaopo Landfill comprising site preparation and construction of a
new landfill with capacity of about 1.8 Mm3 at a site some 6 km to the
northwest of the city, including leachate and gas collection/treatment



- 82 -                      ANNEX2
systems, site facilities and operational vehicles and plant, access and site
roads.
(b)   Transfer Stations. Construction of two transfer stations throughout the
city.
(c)   Collection and Transportation Vehicles.  Procurement of about 13
collection and transportation vehicles in sizes between 5 and 8 tons capacity.
(d)   Institutional Development and Training.  Provision of institutional
development and practical training for both management and operational
personnel, with particular attention being given to the control, management
and monitoring necessary to effectively operate sanitary landfill operations.
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
72.   The primary objective of wastewater treatment for the city of Qujing is the
improvement of water quality in the Nanpanjiang, the quality of which is currently Class V.
The considerable variation in river flows means that dilution may be limited, and the longer
term objective is to provide secondary treatment of wastewater. The project will provide an
intermediate stage biological treatment, which can readily be incorporated in the longer
term facilities. Wastewater flows from the developed eastern and northern areas of the city,
will be intercepted and conveyed to the treatment site which is located to the south of
Qujing in the vicinity of the junction of the Baishi and Xiaoxianghe rivers. The trunk sewer
system and treatment facilities would be expanded in the future to accommodate the
wastewater flows from the western area of Qujing, which is expected to develop during the
next IO to 15 years.
73.   Proposed Component ($15.0 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Trunk Collector Sewer Systems including the construction of about
12.1 km of sewers in sizes between 300 and 1,800 mm diameter, including
sewer connections and related structures for interception of wastewater
flows from existing combined sewer systems and surface drainage channels.
(b)   Sewage Treatment Works comprising screens, pumping, grit removal,
intermediate biological treatment, sludge treatment and disposal, and
ancillary facilities, with capacity of about 80,000 m3/d.
(c)   Maintenance Depots, Sewer Cleaning and Safety Equipment for use
throughout the city, including bucket cleaning equipment, hoists,
transportation, and safety equipment to be based at maintenance depot at
STW site.



- 83 -                     ANNEX2
Water Supply
74.   Existing Situation. The combined population of Qujing and the satellite town of
Zhanyi (10 km to the north), was around 162,000 in 1992. This figure is projected to reach
437,000 and 452,000 in years 2010 and 2020, respectively. Average water demands are
estimated at about 66,500 m3/d in 1995, rising to 132,000 m3/d in 2010 and 153,000 m3/d in
2020. Peak values are estimated at 152,000 and 176,000 in years 2010 and 2020
respectively. Existing supplies, totaling 87,000 m3/d are obtained from Xiaoxiang, Xihe
and Niuguohe reservoir sources; however, the reliability of these sources is reported very
low in the range 35 to 45 percent. The installed treatment capacity at the existing three
works is reported around 81,000 m3/d. However, deficiencies in the existing distribution
system reduce the effective daily supply to around 55,000 m3/d.
75.   The proposed component in this project would: (a) provide improved distribution
pipework in the existing northern and eastern areas of the city to ensure distribution of the
full available supply of treated water from the existing works; and (b) address the apparent
supply deficiency by developing a new water scheme from the existing DuMu reservoir
which is located some 40 km to the northwest from Qujing. The DuMu source was selected
as the least-cost scheme to provide a reliable supply for the long term development of
Qujing, providing a safe yield (at 95 percent reliability) of 120,000 m3/d, which would
suffice to meet the peak demand through year 2020. The scheme would be developed in
two stages each of 60,000 m3/d capacity, the raw water main would be sized for the first
stage development and a duplicate pipe would be provided at a later date, since this is the
least-cost option for this pipeline (although the tunnel would be built for the full
development).
76.   Proposed Component ($21.2 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Distribution System Strengthening comprising pressure pipelines of steel,
ductile iron, or prestressed concrete materials, in sizes between 200 and
600 mm diameter, of about 19 km total length in the northern and eastern
areas of the city.
(b)   Raw  Water Transmission Pipeline comprising pressure pipeline of
prestressed concrete, steel, or other materials, about 1,000 mm diameter,
control valves and facilities, of about 34.1 km total length from DuMu
reservoir to Qujing, No.1 and No.2 WTP.
(c)   Extension of Water Treatment Plant No.2 at North Qujing comprising
flocculation, clarification, filtration, chlorination, storage, pumping and
ancillary facilities, of about 30,000 m3/d additional capacity.
(d)   Raw Water Transmission Tunnel. Horseshoe-shape pressure tunnel of
size about 2.0 m high * 2.0 m wide with reinforced concrete or spray
concrete lining, of about 9.3 km length.



- 84 -                     ANNEX2
D. INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
77.   The proposals for the Kunyang Phosphorus Fertilizer Factory comprise a
combination of process upgrading and wastewater treatment. The process upgrading will
permit production of higher grade products and will achieve improved water and materials
utilization. The reduced wastewater flow will be given treatment in the form of chemical
precipitation of phosphate to meet the standard for discharge to Dianchi Lake, which
requires a phosphorus concentration of not more than I mg/l in the treated wastewater. The
combined effect of the process upgrading and wastewater treatment proposals in an overall
reduction in the phosphorus load discharged to Dianchi Lake from 57 tons/year to less than
I ton/year, a reduction of about 98 percent. The wastewater discharge will be reduced from
540 m3/h to 117 m3/h.
78.   The proposals for the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory are also based on a
combination of process upgrading and wastewater treatment. The process upgrading
proposals involve improvements in water recycling, recovery of ammonia and phosphate
chemicals and in desulfurization of the coal gas (produced on site by coal carbonization)
used in ammonia-based product manufacture. A new sulfuric acid plant using sulfur as raw
material is proposed to enhance phosphoric production, which is currently only internittent,
which causes high losses during startup and shutdown. The process improvements will
reduce wastewater discharges from 550 to 59 m3/h (ca 90 percent) and loads of ammonia
(as N) from 332 to 85 tons/year (about 75 percent) and phosphorus from 36 to 4 tons/year
(about 90 percent). Wastewater treatment will reduce these loads further to 10.6 tons/year
and 0.4 tons/year for ammonia (as N) and phosphorus respectively.
79.   Proposed Component ($34.1 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
Kunyang Phosphorus Fertilizer Factory
(a)   a new 60,000 tons/year sulfuric acid production facility, which will enhance
production of downstream products and will allow a change from sulfide ore
to pure sulfur as a feedstock;
(b)   new circulating water systems and system refurbishment for industrial
phosphate production (100 m3/h); sulfuric acid plant (550 m3/h); chemical
fertilizer plant (150 m3/h); various other phosphate products (2 at 200 m3/h
and 2 at 20m3/h);
(c)   a new water treatment facility (300 m3/h);
(d)   improvements to intermediate wastewater treatment plant;
(e)   improvements to wastewater stream segregation; and



- 85 -                     ANNEX2
(f)    a new  wastewater treatment plant (150 m3/h) involving two-stage
precipitation and sedimentation and sludge treatment, and associated
laboratory facilities.
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory
(g)   modifications to the coal gas cleaning, including sulfur recovery
(200 tons/year), and indirect cooling;
(h)   a new sulfuric acid plant (80,000 tons/year) using sulfur as feedstock;
(i)   upgrading of process water recycling in gas plant (by 270 m 3/hr); ammonia
synthesis (by 500 m 3/hr); phosphoric acid (200 m3/hr);
(j)   improvements to wastewater stream segregation;
(k)   wastewater treatment plant for phosphate removal by precipitation,
sedimentation and sludge treatment; and
(l)    wastewater treatment for nitrogen removal by nitrification, activated sludge,
secondary sedimentation and sludge treatment.
Environmental Pollution Control Subloans will be made for environmental
improvement measures of small-scale enterprises.  Subloan processing and
approvals will be covered by operational regulations to be issued shortly.
E. ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND DATA MANAGEMENT
80.   Proposed Component ($6.2 million). The objective of this component is to
upgrade the facilities and strengthen the management of (a) the Yunnan Environmental
Monitoring Center; (b) the Kunming Environmental Monitoring Center; (c) the Honghe
Prefecture Environmental Monitoring Station; (d) the Gejiu Municipal Environmental
Monitoring Station; (e) the Qujing Prefecture Environmental Monitoring Center; (f) the
Qujing Municipal Environmental Monitoring Station; (g) the Yunnan Radiation Monitoring
Station Institute, and (h) Yunnan Environmental Management Institute. Specifically, the
project will help to improve the facilities in these centers and stations through upgrading of
existing laboratory buildings, including services and in particular the provision of stable
power supplies. Laboratory and field equipment, and computer hardware and software for
improved data management would be procured. There would also be provision for training
and technology transfer.
F. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT, CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION AND TRAINING
81.   Proposed Component ($19.1 million). The component would comprise a number
of main composite packages for the various executing agencies, covering institutional
development, construction supervision and training, as described below, together with an
allowance for support for provincial and sector city agencies, master planning, future



- 86 -                     ANNEX2
project preparation, and other programs of assistance to be further defined. Details are set
out below and in the Institutional Development, Construction Supervision and Training
Table, showing estimated national and international person-months and other supporting
related information. The scope of work and draft terms of reference for the main
assignments were reviewed by the Bank/IDA, and are in the Project File (see Annex 16).
Packages A to F: Institutional Development, Financial Management Improvement,
Construction Supervision and Training for Executing Agencies
Objectives
82.   The broad objectives of the main packages (A to F) are to:
(a)   strengthen the executing organizations in institutional and financial
management: water, wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil management,
and the related bureaus and divisions;
(b)   strengthen the overall provincial financial management and policy-making
in Yunnan; and
(c)   ensure the efficient implementation of the project while strengthening sector
institutions.
Scope of Work
83.   The services to be provided under these assignments are for substantial
multidiscipline support programs for the respective executing agencies and would include:
(a)   strengthening of organizations through development of appropriate
management procedures;
(b)   provision of improved accounting systems, management information
systems and training in water, wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil
management operations, and computer training for accounting staff;
(c)   water, wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil management utility pricing;
(d)   provincial financial management;
(e)   quality assurance training for materials production;
(f)   construction supervision;
(g)   solid waste management operations training;
(h)   wastewater treatment plant operations training;



- 87 -                     ANNEX2
(i)   skills upgrading for planning and analysis of development options; and
(j)   assistance to improve product technology.
Package G: Environmental Quality Monitoring and Data Management
Objective
84.   The objective of Package G component is to:
(a)   support the Environmental Monitoring and Data Management component of
the project, which involves refurbishment of existing laboratories and
provision of new analytical equipment to broaden the scope of
environmental monitoring in the Province; and
(b)   strengthen capabilities at both Provincial and Municipal in environmental
monitoring and data management to provide information that is of sufficient
quality to support the environmental decision-making process.
Scope of Work
85.   This package will provide practical training in the three stages of environmental
monitoring as follows:
(a)   sampling-design of sampling strategies and programs; sampling statistics;
sampling protocols;
(b)   analysis-design  and specification  of analytical programs; quality
assurance/quality control; and
(c)   data management-data storage; data retrieval; quality assurance/quality
control.
Package H: Training and Management Information Systems (MIS) Support
Objective
86.   The objective of Package H is to support the institutional development of project
entities and executing agencies through structured programs of "in-country" and overseas
training, and to support management information development.
Package I: Other
87.   The scope of work in Package I would include: water resources and drainage master
planning; equipment and support for Provincial and other Finance Bureaus; support for
Dianchi Lake Basin Authority; other related assistance and studies including wastes
management, and future project preparation.



- 88 -                                   ANNEX2
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Component         |Location       |Description                          ICapacity/Size    IFunction
KUNMING
Kunming Municipal Solid Waste
Hongshuitang       19 km northwest Landfill including provision of leachate and 10 Mm'     To serve the northem part of
Landfill           of Kunming city gas collecting system to provide 21 years'              Kunming with daily waste
capacity including landfill equipment and              capacity of 700 tons.
access road improvements.
Transfer stations  Throughout the  Enclosed mechanical system transfer   60 t/d: 13 No     These stations would
city           stations.                             200 tWd: 5 No     increase the efficiency of
waste removal throughout
the city.
Collection and trans- Throughout the  Various vehicles for tanspotation in city   2.5 t, 40 No  To increase the efficiency of
portation vehicles    city         and to landfill in sizes in the range 3-16 ml  12 m3, 40 No  transportation and for direct
including container carrying truck and  16 m3, 26 No   transport of wastes to
containem.                           24 m3, 22 No      landfills.
16 m3 containers, 52
No
24 m3 containers,
50No
Miscellaneous
vehicles and loaders
Baishuitang Landfill  20 lan southeast Landfill including provision of leachate and 9 Mm'  To serve the southeast areas
of Kunming city gas collection system to provide 21 years              of the city with daily waste
life capacity, including landfill equipment            capacity of 900 tons.
and access road.
Kunming Wastewater
Urban sewerage     City central areas Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  Pipelines  To intercept wastewater
rehabilitation                     pipes and reinforced concrete culvert  13.2 km DN 300   from existing combined
construction, totaling about 54.4 km.  8.8 km DN 400   sewer systers and convey
10.7 kIn DN 600   flows to sewage treatment
5.7 km DN 800    works Nos.l and 2.
4.9 km DN I000
2.9 lun DN 1200
1.2 km DN 1300
2.6 km DN 1600
3.6 km DN 1800
Culverts
0.8km
l ____________     __________                                           4.0  m     *  2.0  m
Pump stations      City central areas Two stations of reinforced concrete with wet No. 2pump station  To lift wastewater toward
well caisson construction, submersible  160,000 m /d   treatment plants.
sewage pump sets and ancillary equipment  No. 3 pump station
No. 2 pump station: 6 pump sets each of    65,000 m3/d
55kW  7mhead
No. 3 pump station: 4 pump sets each of
27kW *5 m head
Connection sewers   Throughout     Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed                To intercept and convey
central city areas pipes, or other materials and related               wastewater from existing
chambers and structures.                               developed areas and com-
bined sewers to interceptor
sewers.
Southem suburbs    Kunming south  Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  1.5 km DN 1000   To collect wastewater flows
sewerage systems    westem suburbs  pipes 4.0 km total length.           2.0 km DN 1200   from southem suburbs for
0.5 km DN 1400   treatment at No. I STW
Pump stations      Kunming south  Two stations of reinforced concrete with wet No. I station  To lift wastewater toward
westem suburbs  well construction, submersible sewage  20,000 m3/d     No 2 STW
pump sets and ancillary equipment.
No. I station: 4 pump sets each of 20 kW *
l __________                      8 m    head



-89-                                      ANNEX2
Component           Location       Description                            Capacity/Size     Function
No. 1 Sewage        South Kunming  Uprating capacity of existing No I STW  25,000 m3/d      To treat wastewater from
Treatment Works                    from 55,000 to 80,000 mr3/d by provision of uprating     Kunming south area for
additional aeration capacity and ancillary              discharge to Dianchi Lake.
facilities, and construction of a 40,000 m3/d 40,000 mr/d
capacity extension, with screens, grit  extension
removal, biological treatment based on the
activated sludge process and incorporating
phosphorus and nitrogen removal, sludge
treatment and ancillary facilities.
Northem suburbs     Kunming        Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  25.0 km DN 300   To collect wastewater flows
sewerage systems    northem suburbs pipes of about 61.0 km total length with    6.2 km DN 500    from northern suburbs fbr
ancillary structures.                 13.0 km DN 600   treatment at No. 4B Sewage
7.1 km DN 800     Treatment Works.
4.5 km DN 1000
2.2 km DN 1200
0.8 km DN 1400
2.3 km DN 1500
0.1 km DN 1800
No 4B Sewage        Kunming        Wastewater treatment plant comprising  75,000 m'/d       To treat domestic and
Treatment Works    northem suburbs screens, pumps, grit removal, biological                 industrial wastewater prior
treatment incorporating phosphorus and                  to discharge to Dianchi
nitrogen removal, secondary clarification,              Lake.
sludge treatment and disposal, ancillary and
administration facilities.
Eastem suburbs      Kunming eastem  Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  8.3 km DN 300  To collect wastewater flows
sewerage systems    suburbs        pipes of about 24.6 km total length with    1.1 km DN 500    from eastem suburb areas of
ancillary structures.                 4.3 km DN 600     Kunming for treatnent at
3.3 km DN 800     No. 5 Sewage Treatment
3.4 km DN 1200    Works.
1.3 km DN 1400
1.0 km DN 1500
2.1 km DN 1600
No 5 Sewage         Kunming eastem  Wastewater treatment plant comprising  50,000 m'/d      To treat dom
Treatment Works    suburbs         screens, pumps, grit removal, biological                 industrial w.
treatment incorporating phosphorus and                  to discharge t
nitrogen removal, secondary clarification,              Lake.
sludge treatment and disposal, ancillary and
administration facilities.
.>s' - '1&:,'M  ( o   6 WJ^ W *'~~~~~~~^ W S  9^W^'.Q.'            e^-~Ai#&Xio::65.tewater fows
sewerage system     westem suburbs  gravity sewer pipes and welded steel rising  4.7 km DN 300    from westem suburb areas o
mains of about 53.9 km total length with    8.3 km DN 400  Kunming for treatment at
ancillary structurs.                  8.8 km DN 500     existing No. 3 Sewage
8.0 km DN 600     Treatment Works.
5.1 Iakm DN 700
2.4 km DN 800
3.9 km DN 900
2.6 km DN 1000
0.5 km DN 1200
2.3 km DN 1400
Steel
5.9 km DN 1000
1.3 km DN 1400
Pump stations      Kunmning        Three stations of reinforced concrete with   No. I station  To lift wastewater toward
westem suburbs  wet well construction, submersible sewage  115,000 m3/d  treatment plants.
pump sets and ancillary equipmenL     No.2 station
No. I station: 5 pump sets each of 100 kW * 115,000 m3/d
18 m                                  No.3 station
No. 2 station: 5 pump sets each of 100 kW 0 115,000 m3/d
18 m
No. 3 station: 5 pump sets each of 100 kW *
I__ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _18m                              I_                I



- 90 -                                   ANNEX 2
Component          Location        Descripbion                           Capacity/Size     Function
Sewer cleaning     Throughout      Various sewer cleaning equipment including -           To provide improved capa-
equipment          Kunmning city   bucket cleaning equipment, hoists, transpoI-            bility of Drainage Company
tation and safety equipment.                           in operation and mainte-
._______________  I  __ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ ____   Inance  of sewer systems.
Kunming Water Supply
Raw water transmis-  Songhuaba     Pressure pipeline of prestressed concrete or  0.2 km DN 700  To convey raw water from
sion pipeline      Reservoir to    other pipe materials in sizes in the range    1.9 km DN I 000   Songhuaba Reservoir for
water treatment  1000 mm to 1600 mm diameter, including   11.5 km DN 1600  trcatment.
works at       control and ancillary facilities, total length
Beijiaochang    approximately 13.5 km.
Beijiaochang Water  Beijiaochang    Water treatment plant comprising floccula-  100,000 m'/d  To treat water supply from
Treatment Plant                    tion, clarification, filtration, chlorination,          Songhuaba Reservoir for
(WTP)                              storage, pumping and ancillary facilities.              potable use in the city.
Storage reservoir  Xiaotunshan     Reinforced concrete construction, including  l0,000 m'  To provide storage of treated
ancillary facilities.                                  water to serve the westem
city areas.
Distribution system    Various locations Pressure pipelines of steel, prestressed  5.2 km DN 800    To improve the distribution
extensions                         concrete, or other materials, total length    2.2 km DN 1000   of treated water to Kunming
approximately 12.0 km.              4.6 km DN 1200   city areas.
No I Water         Kunming north  Expansion of existing No I WTW from    70,000 m'/d      To increase the treatment
Treatment Works    area            80,000 to 150,000 m /d capacity, compris-               capacity for Songhuaba Res-
extension                          ing clarification, filtration, storage, chlori-         ervoir water for distribution
nation, pumping and ancillary facilities.              to city areas (thus minimiz-
ing use of Dianchi Lake
water).
Unaccounted for    Throughout the  Equipment for unaccounted for water man-               To improve Kunming Water
water management   city            agement including leak noise correlators,              Company's capacity to
flow/pressure equipment, valvc and pipe                reduce system leakage and
locators and other ancillary equipment.                unaccounted for water.
facilities.
Songhuaba Reservoir                Augmentation facilitics for Songhuaba                  T to safeguard Songhuaba
augmentation                       Reservoir conjunctive use.                             water resource availability
for conjunctive use.
SMALL TOWNS SANITATION
Chenggong Sewage  Chenggong        Sewage treatment works comprising     15,000 m'/d      To treat domestic and
Treatment Works    Town            screens, pumps, grit removal, primary sedi-            industrial wastewater from
(STW)                              mentation, biological treatment incorporat-             Chenggong Town prior to
ing phosphorus and nitrogen removal,                   discharge to Dianchi Lake
secondary clarification, sludge thickening
and pressing and ancillary facilities.
Chenggong Sewerage Throughout the  Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  11. I km DN 300   To collect and convey
town           pipes of about 22.9 km total length   1.4 km DN 400     municipal wastewater flows
3.3 km DN 500    for treatment at the proposed
2.0 km DN 700    Chenggong STW.
1.3 km DN 800 3.8
km DN 900
Jinning Sewage     Jinning Town    Sewage treatment works comprising     15,000 m'/d      To treat domestic and
Treatment Works                    screens, pumps, grit removal, primary sedi-            industrial wastewater from
(STW)                              mentation, biological treatment incorporat-            Jinning Town prior to
ing phosphorus and nitrogen removal,                   discharge to Dianchi Lake
secondary clarification, sludge thickening
and pressing and ancillary facilities.
Jinning Sewerage    Throughout the  Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  2.5 km DN 400    To collect and convey
town           pipes of about 7.7 km total length    2.0 km DN 500     municipal wastewater flows
0.8 km DN 600    for treatment at the proposed
I. I km DN 700    Jinning STW.
0.5 km DN 800
10.9 km DN 1000



-91-                                     ANNEX 2
Rural sanitation   Dounan Village  Pilot schemes covering (i) water supply and varies      To collect and treat village
demonstration      Wulong Village  sewage collection systems; (ii) wetland                 waste flows in three pilot
scheme             Xiaohe Village  treatment; (iii) anaerobic composting                   areas draining to Dianchi
method; (iv) best farming practices; (v) land          Lake or Songhuaba
treatment                                              Reservoir
GEJIU
Gejiu Wastewater
Collector sewers   Shores of Gejiu  Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  2.0 km DN 600  To intercept wastewater
Lake           gravity pipeline systems, constnicted along  1.7 km DN 800    flows from entering Gejiu
lake foreshore.                                        Lake and convey flows to
pump station.
Pump station       North end of    Reinforced concrete wet welVdry well  40,000 m'/d for    Dual purpose station to (i)
Gejiu Lake     station with 3 No pump sets each 75 kW '  wastewater   lift wastewater toward treat-
20 m head for wastewater; and 6 No pump  200,000 m3/d for   ment works; and (ii) pump
sets each 125 kW * 20 m head for storm-   stormwater   storm flows to maintain
water, screens and ancillary equipment.                Lake Gejiu level in flood
scason.
Stormwaterpumping  From Gejiu      Pumping main comprising 1000 mm dia.   0.5 km DN 1000   To convey stormwaterto
main               pump station    pipe of steel or other material.                        existing culvert for dis-
charge to prevent flooding
of Lake Gejiu.
Wastewater pumping  From Gejiu     Pumping main comprising 800 mm dia. pipe 0.7 km DN 800  To lift wastewater toward
main               pump station    of steel or other material.                             treatment works.
Gravity conveyor    Gejiu to       Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  3.2 km DN 800    To convey wastewater to
treatment plant  gravity pipeline.                                     treatment works.
Existing culvert   Gejiu           Renovation and cleaning of existing open/  2.45 km     To discharge stormwater
rehabilitation                     closed drainage culvert.                                from Gejiu pump station to
control lake water levels.
Storm drainage tunnel From existing    Tunnel with reinforced concrete, or other   1.3 km  To convey stormwater from
culvert to     lining, horse-shoe shape ofsize about 2.2 m             Gejiu valley to control lake
adjacent valley   wide * 2.2 m high, with integral wastewater          water levels.
culvert.
Sewage Treatment   2 km north of   Wastewater treatment works comprising    25,000 m'/d   To treat wastewater prior to
Works (STW)        Gejiu          screens, grit removal, intermediate                      discharge to existing water
biological treatment, sludge treatment and             course for irrigation use.
disposal, and ancillary facilities.
Lake water balance   Upland        Water balance facilities comprising   1,500,000 m5 total  To maintain water levels in
facilities         catchment to    impounding of runoff in storage tanks for   capacity   Gejiu Lake during periods o
north ofGejiu   controlled release to Lake Gejiu (not                  drought.
I____ ____ ____   ___ _ _   financed  in  project).  I
QUJING
Qujing Municipal Solid Waste
Dagou/Xiaopo       6 km northwest  Construction of new landfill with provision  1.77 Mm'  Provide long term disposal
Landfill           of Qujing city   of leachate and gas control, access and site          to facilities for Qujing city
center         roads of about 2.7 km and landfill equip-               with a daily waste collection
ment.                                                  of about 160 tons rising to
330 tons.
Transfer stations  Throughout the  Enclosed mechanical system transfer   60 t/d, 2 No      To increase the efficiency of
city           stations.                                               waste collection and
removal from the city.
Collection and trans- Throughout the  Various vehicles and containers for trans-   Trucks  To increase the efficiency of
portation vehicles    city         portation within the city and to landfill in   8 t, 4 No.  transportation within the city
sizes in the range 5-8 t capacity     15 t, 9 No       and fbrtransportation to
landfill site.



- 92-                                    ANNEX2
Component          Location       IDescription                          lCapacity/Size    iFunction
Qujing Wastewater
Trunk collector sewer Baishi River to  Reinforced concrete rubber ring jointed  3.9 km DN 300    To intercept wastewater
wastewater     gravity pipeline systems, to intercept  0.4 km DN 450    from developed areas and
treatment plant  existing outfalls and surface drainage  1.4 km DN 600  convey flow to sewage
system, of about 12.1 km.             0.88 km DN 800   treatment works.
0.75 km DN 1000
2.67 km DN 1200
0.90 km DN 1350
0.70 km DN 1500
0.58 km DN 1800
Sewage Treatmrent   Vicinity of    Wastewater treatment plant comprising  80,000 m'/d      To treat domestic and
Works (STW)         unction of     pumps, sewers, grit removal, intermediate              industrial wastewater prior
Baishiajiang and biological treatment, sludge thickening,              to discharge to Baishi River.
Xiaoxianghe    dewatering and removal, and ancillary
Rivers southeast facilities.
of city
Sewer cleaning     Throughout the  Miscellaneous sewer cleaning equipment   -              To improve operational
equipment and      city            comprising bucket cleaning, collection and              efficiency and safety of
maintenance facilities             transport vehicles and safety equipment and             sewer maintenance opera-
maintenance depots at STW.                             tions throughout the city.
Qujing Water Supply
Distribution system   Northem and    Pressure pipelines of steel, ductile iron or   0.8 km DN 300  Distribution system
strengthening      eastem areas of  prestressed concrete pipe materials to be    7.6 km DN 400    improvements to enable full
city           selected of about 18.7 km total length.  6.2 km DN 500    capacity of future treatment
2.5 km DN 600    works of 100,000 m3/d to be
1.5 km DN 700    distributed.
Raw water transmis-  Du Mu Reservoir Pressure pipeline of steel, prestressed con-  29.1 km DN 1000  To convey raw water from
sion main          to water treat-   crete, or other pipe materials with control   prestressed concrete Du Mu Reservoir to water
ment works in  facilities of 34.1 km total length to supply   5.0 km DN 800    treatment works in Qujing.
Qujing         No.1 and No.2 WTW.                    steel
Water Treatment    North of Qujing. Extensions to existing water treatment plant 30,000 m'/d  To treat raw water for pota-
Plant No.2 extension               comprising flocculation, clarification,                 ble use prior to distribution
filtration, chlorination, storage, pumping             in Qujing.
and ancillary facilities of 30,000 m3 /d
additional capacity.
Raw water transmis-  4.0 km down-   Pressure tunnel, horseshoe shape, 2.0 m  9.3 km        To convey raw water from
sion tunnel        stream from     high * 2.0 m wide with reinforced concrete              DuMu to watcr treatment
DuMu Reservoir or shotcrete lining.                                    plant.
on raw water
transmission
route
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
Kunming Chemical   Kunming         Comprising production of sulfuric acid and  _          To treat and reduce phos-
Fertilizer Factory                 other products; water system improvements,             phorus in wastewater dis-
wastewater treatmcnt                                   charges to Dianchi Lake
Kunyang Phosphate  Kunyang         Comprising production of sulfuric acid and             To treat and reduce phos-
Fertilizer Factory                 other products; water system improvements,              phonrs in wastewater dis-
wastewater treatment and laboratory                    charges to Dianchi Lake
facilities.
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND DATA MANAGEMENT
Facility improve-    Yunnan Envi-  Improvement of existing facilities including -         To upgrade the existing
ments              ronmental Moni- laboratory, electrical, water supply and                laboratory facilities to
toring Center    ancillary services.                                   accommodate improved
(YEMC)                                                                 equipment and technology.
Laboratory and field  YEMC         Equipment and facilities for improved  -               To improve YEMC capa-
equipment                          monitoring and data management.                        bility in environmental
monitoring and data man-
agement
Facility improve-    Kunming Envi-  Improvement of existing facilities including -        To upgrade the existing
ments              ronmental Moni- laboratory, electrical, water supply and               laboratory facilities to
toring Center    ancillary services.                                   accommodate improved
(KEMC)                                                                 equipment and technology



- 93 -                                  ANNEX2
Component          Location       Description                          Capacity/Size    Function
Laboratory and field  KEMC        Equipment and facilities for improved  _              To improve YEMC capa-
equipment                         monitoring and data management                        bility in environmental
monitoring and data man-
Faclity improve-    Honghe Prefec-  Improvement of existing facilities including _      To upgrade the existing
ments             ture Environ-   laboratory, electrical, water supply and             laboratory facilities to
mental Monitor- ancillary services.                                  accommodate improved
ing Station                                                         equipment and technology.
(HPEMS)
Laboratory and field  HPEMS       Equipment and facilities for improved                 To improve YEMC capa-
equipment                         monitoring and data managemenL                        bility in environmental
monitoring and data man-
agement
Laboratory and field  Gejiu Municipal Equipment and facilities for improved  -          To improve YEMC capa-
equipment          Environmental  monitoring and data management.                       bility in environmental
Monitoring                                                           monitoring and data man-
Station                                                              agement.
Facility improve-    Qujing Prefec-  Improvement of existing facilities including -     To upgrade the existing
ments             ture Environ-   laboratory, electrical, water supply and             laboratory facilities to
mental Monitor- ancillary services.                                  accommodate improved
ing Station                                                         equipment and technology.
(QPEMS)
Laboratory and field  QPEMS       Equipment and facilities for improved  -              To improve YEMC
equipment                         monitoring and data management                        capability in environmental
monitoring and data
.__________  ______management.
Facility improve-    Qujing Munici-  Improvement of existing facilities induding -      To upgrade the existing
ments              pal Environmen- laboratory, electrical, water supply and            laboratory facilities to
tal Monitoring   ancillary services.                                 accommodate improved
Station                                                              equipment and technology.
(QMEMS)                                           .
Laboratory and field  QMEMS       Equipment and facilities for improved  -              To improve YEMC capa-
equipment                         monitoring and data managemenL                        bility in environmental
monitoring and data man-
agement.
Facility           Yunnan Radia-  Improvement of existing facilities including -        To upgrade the existing
improvements      tion Monitoring  laboratory, electrical, water supply and            laboratory facilities to
Station Institute  ancillary services.                               accommodate improved
equipment and technology.
Laboratory and field  Yunnan Radia-  Equipment and facilities for improved  -           To improve YEMC capa-
equipment          tion Monitoring  monitoring and data management.                     bility in environmental
Station Institute                                                    monitoring and data man-
agement.
Facility           Yunnan         Improvement of existing facilities including -        To improve provincial
improvements       Environment   laboratory, electrical, water supply and               environmental management
Management   ancillary services.                                     and monitoring capability.
Institute
Laboratory and field  Yunnan      Equipment and facilities for improved  -
equipment          Environment    monitoring and data management
Management
Institute



- 94 -                            ANNEX2
INSTrTiONAL DEVELOPMENT, CONSTRUCI1ON SUPERVISION AND TRAINING
Base
TA                                                                    Person months      Cost
Ref. Title                                                          National   Int'l   (S M)
A PACKAGE A: KUNMING DRAINAGE COMPANY
Financial/Institutional/Support Equipment                        120         20
Technical and Construction Management                            500         74
B PACKAGE B: KUNMING WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
FinanciaVlnstitutional/Support Equipment                          48          6
Technical and Construction Management                            100         33
Sub total Packages A and B                                  768       133
C PACKAGE C: KUNMING SOLID WASTE
FinanciaVlInstitutional/Support Equipment                         18          4
Technical and Construction Management                             41          8
D PACKAGE D: QUJING WATER AND WASTEWATER
Financial/Institutional/Support Equipment                         54          6
Technical and Construction Management                            125        33
E PACKAGE E: QUJING SOLID WASTE
Financial/Institutional/Support Equipment                         12         3
Technical and Construction Management                             24          5
F PACKAGE F: GEJIU WASTEWATER
FinancialInstitutional/Support Equipment                          54         6
Technical and Construction Management                             80         7
Yunnan Environment Project Office (YEPO)                          48        48
Subtotal Packages C to F including YEPO                    456       120
Subtotal Packages A to F including YEPO                   1,224       253
G  PACKAGE G: Environmental Quality Monitoring                                          0.70
H  PACKAGE H: Training and MIS Support                                                  1.00
I PACKAGE I: OTHER
Water Resources Master Plan Update                                                  1.50
Equipment and Support for Provincial and other Finance Bureaus
Support for Dianchi Lake Basin Authority and Other Assistance                       1.54
Future Project Preparation                                                          2.00
Subtotal Package I                                                             5.04
TOTAL All Packages                                                            15.70



-95 -                                ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%     % Tota
(RMB Million)                 (US$ Million)        Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                          820.06   247.44    1,067.50    98.80   29.81    128.61         23      50
B. Equipment & Matenals                 282.44   273.46      555.90    34.03   32.95      66.98        49      26
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlement    123.10         -      123.10    14.83        -    14.83                 6
D. TechnicalAssistance & Training        26.00   104.00       130.00     3.13    12.53    15.66        80       6
E. Engineering & Mgmt                   174.65         -      174.65    21.04        -    21.04         -       8
F. Industrial Pollution Control          16.80    67.20       84.00      2.02     8.10    10.12        80       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                     1,443.05   692.10    2,135.15    173.86   83.39   257.25        32      100
Physical Contingencies                  175.75    79.82      255.57    21.17      9.62    30.79        31      12
Price Contingencies                     395.33    179.92     575.25     13.42    6.13     19.55        31       8
Total PROJECT COSTS                      2,014.13   951.84    2,965.97   208.45   99.14    307.59        32      120



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Prqed
Table 101. Kunming Wastewater
Detailed Costs
(RMB Milion)
Bas Cost                                   Totals Including Contingencies
1996 19S7  1iW    1f9f   2000  2W1 2002 Total   199  1197  1995  1if   2000  2001  2002   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. CMvi Works
1. DM8U1.1 Kunming Integratd Searage
DBMU1 11 Kunming Urban Distrks (Sewerage Rehabilitation)           -     -  44 10  58.80  29.40 14 70    - 147 00       *     -  57.36  81.64  43.41 23.05     -   205.46
2. DBMI1.2 Kunming Northem & Eastem Suburbs Sewege
DBM/1i21 Kunming Northen Suburbs (No. 48 STW)                      -     -  15.16  30.32  22.74  7.58    -  75.80       .     -  1972  42.10  33.58 11.89      -   107.28
DBM/I 22KunmingEastemSuburbs(No 5ST"\                              -  918   18.36  13.77   4.59      -    -  45.90      - 11.09  23.88  19.12   6.78     -     -    6086
Subtotal DBW1.2fKunming Northem & Eastern Suburbs Sewerage           -  9.18  33.52  44 09  27.33  7.58    - 12170        - 11.09  43.60  6122  40.35 11.89      -   168.14
3. DBM1.3 Kunming Westem & Southem Suburbs Semrage
DBM/1.3 1 Kunming Westem Suburbs (No. 3 STW)                       -     -  32.28  43.04  21.52 10.76    - 107.60       -     -  41 99  59.76  31 77 16.87     -   150.39
DBM/i 32 Kunming Southem Suburbs (No 1 STW)                        -  221    2.21   2.94   5.15  1.47 0.74  14.70       -  2.66   2.87   408   7.60  2.31   1.22    20.74
Subtotal DBM11.3 Kunming Westem&Southem Suburbs Sewerage             -  2.21   3449  45.98  26.67 12.23 0.74 122.30       -  2.66  44.86  63.84  39.37 19.18  122   171.13
4. DBM/2.1 Kunming No. 4B & 5 Sewage Treatment Works
DBM/2 1 1 Kunmmg No. 48 STW                                        -     -   6 21  16 56  12.42  4.14 2.07  41.40       -     -   8.08  22.99  18.34  6.49  3.45    59.35
DBM/2.1.2 Kunming No. 5 STW                                        -  6.56   13.12   9.84   3.28     -    -  32.80      -  7.92  17.07  1366   484       -     -    43.49
Subtotal DBM/2.1 Kunming No. 4B & 5 Sewage Treatment Works           -  6.56  19 33  26.40  15.70  4.14 2.07  74.20       -  7.92  25.14  36.65  23 18  6.49  3.45   102.84
5. DBM12.2 Kunming No. I Sewage Treatment Works Extension
DBM12.2.1 Kunming No 1 STW Extension                               -  4.43   443   5.90  1033  2.95  1.48  2950         -  5.59   6.02   8.56  15.94  484  2.57    4351         O
DBM/2I2 2 Kunmrng No. 1 STW Upgrading                                  1.76   1.76   2.34   4.10  1.17 0.59  11.70      -  2.22   2.39   3.40   6.32  1.92  1.02    17.26
SubtotaIDBWI2.2 Kunming No.ISewag Treatment Works Extension          -  618   618   8.24  14.42  4.12 2.06  41.20         -  7.80   8.40  11.96  22.26  6.75  3.59    60.77
6. DBW17.0 Kunming Wstewater Misc. Contracts
DBM/17.1 Railway Crossings                                         -  2 07   2 76   1.38   0.69           -  6 90       -  2.50   3.59   1.92   1.02     -     -      9.02
DBM/17.2ConnectionsandMinorWorks                                   -  6.00   800   4.00   2.00       -    .  20.00      -  7.25  10.41   5.55   2.95     -    .    26.16
Subtotal DBMIt7.0 Kunming Watwater Misc. Contracts                   *  8.07  10.76   5.38   2.69      -    -  26.90         9.74  14.00   7.47   3.97     -     -    35.18
Subtotal Ciil Works                                                    - 32.20 148.38 188.89 116.21 42.77 4.87 53330        - 39.22 193.36 262.78 172.55 67.36  8.26   743.53
3. EquIpment and Laterials
1. DBMW20.1 Kunming No. 48 & 5 Sewage Treatment Works
DBM/20. 1.1 Kunming No. 48 STW                                     -     *   4.65  23.25  13.95  4.65    * 46.50        -     -   6.05  32.28  20.60  7.29      -    66.22
DBM/20.1.2 Kunming No. 5 TW                                        -  4.04  20.20  12.12   4.04      .    * 40.40       -  4.88  26.27  16.83   5.97     -    -    53.95
SubtotalDBW2O.1 Kunming No. 4B & Sage TratmentWorks                   *  4.04  24.85  35.37  17.99  4.65    -  86.90      -  4.88  32.32  49.11  26.56  7.29      -   120.17
2. DBW21.1 Kunming No. 1 Sewge Treatment Works Extension
DBM01211.1 Kunming No. 1 STWExtension                              -  3.34   6.68   8.35  10.02  3.34 1.67  33.40       -  4.22   9.08  12.12  15.47  5.48  2.91    49.27
DBM/211.2KunmingNo 1 STWUpgrading                                  -  116   232   2.90   3.48  1.16 0.58  11.60         -  1.46   3.15   4.21   5.37  1.90  1.01    17.11
SubtotalDBM211.1 KunmingNo. 1 SewageTreatment WorksExtension          -  4.50   9.00  11.25  13.50  4.50 2.25  45.00      -  5.68  12.24  16.33  20.84  7.38  3.92    66.38
3. DBM/24.1 Kunming SevwerCleaning Equipment                          *     -      -  0.20   2.00  1.60 0.20   4.00       -     -      -   0.28   2.95  2.51  0.33      6.07
4. DBM/26.1 Kunming Sewerage Power Supp/y                             -     -      -   7.20   0.80     -    .   8.00      -    -       -  10.00   1.18      -     -    11.18     tl
Subtotal EquIpment and Materials                                           8.54  33.85  54.02  34.29 10.75 2.45 143.90      - 10.56  44.56  75.71  51.54 17.18  4.25   20380       >4
C. Land Aciuisito  nand Retleent                                        - 2784   16.24   1.39   0.93     -       46.40      - 33.62  21.12   1.93   1.37      -     -    58.04      W
D. EngineerIng and Management
Civi  orks                                                            -  3.22  14.84  18.89  11.62  4.28 0.49  53.33         3.89  19.30  26.23  17.16  6.71  0.81    74.09
Equipment and Materials                                               -  0.85   3.39   5.40   3.43  1.08 0.25  14.39      -  1.03   4.40   7.50   5.08  1.69  0.41    20.09
Land Aquisition and Resettlement                                         2.78    1.62   0.14   0.09         .   4.84      -  3.36   2.11   0.19   0.14     .      -     5.80
Total                                                                     - 75.43 218.31 288.73 166.57 58.87 8.05 795.96       - 91.67 284.86 374.35 247.81 92.93 13.73  1,105.35



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 102 Kunming Water Supply
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                          Totals Including Contingencies
1996  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   Total    1996  1997   1998   199    2000   2001   2002   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. DBM/3.1 Kunming Water Supply Raw Water Pipelines
DBM/3 11 RawWaterPipelimes-Prestressed Concrete Pipes              -   2 88   7 20   5 76   7 20   4 32   144   28 80          -   348    9 37    8 00  1063   6 77   2 40   40.64
DBM/3 1 2 Raw Water Pipelines - Steel Pipes                         -   0 83   2 08   1 66   2 08   1 25   0.42    8 30         -   1.00   2.70    2 30   3 06   1 95   0.69   1171
DBM/3 1 3SonghuabaReservoirValveChamber                             -   022    0.55   044   055   033   011          220        -   027    0.72    0.61   081    052   0.18    3.10
Subtotal DBM/3.1 Kunming Water Supply Raw Water Pipelines             -   393    983   786   983   5.90    1 97   3930            -   4.75  12.78   1091   1451    9.24   3.27   55.48
2. DBM3.2 Kunming Wter Supply DIstribution Pipelines
DBM/3 21 Treated Water Pipelines - Prestressed Concrete Pipes       -   1 26   3.15   252   3 15   1 89   063    12.60          -   1 52   4 10    350   465    296    1 05   1778
DB/3 2 2 Treated Water Pipelines - Steel Pipes                      -   085   2 13   1 70   2.13   1.28   0 43    8 50          -   1.03   2 76    2 36   3 14   2.00   0.71   12 00
DBM/3.2.2 Valve Chamber                                             -   0.19   048   038   048   0.29   010          190        -   0.23   0.62    0.53   070   045   0.16    2.68
Subtotal DBMW3.2 Kunming Water Supply Distribution Pipelines          -   230    575   4.60   575   345    1 15   23.00           -   278   7.48    639   8.49   5.41   1.92   324r
3 DBM/3.3Kunning WaterSupplySonghuabaReservoirAugmentation            -   100   250   200   2.50   1.50   050   1000              -   1.21   325    278   369   235   0.83   1411
4. DBhU4.1 Kunming No. I & Betijochang Water Treatment Works
DBMI4 1 1 Kunmang No. 1 vvTW                                        -   2 29   5.73   4 58   5 73   3 44   1 15   22.90         -   2 77   7.45    6.36   845   5 39   191   32.32
DBM/4.1.2 Beijiaochang WTW                                          -   2 79   6 98   5.58   6.98   4.19   140   27 90          -   3 37   9 07    7.75  10.30   6.56   2 32   39.37
Subtotal DBMI4.1 KunmingNo.1 &BeljiaochangWaterTreatmentWorks         -   508   1270  10.16  1270   7.62   2.54   5080            -   613   16.52   14.11  18.75  11.95   4.23   71.69
5 DBW4.3 Beijiaochang Service Reservoir                               -   051    1 28   1.02   128   0 77   0 26    5.10          -   062   166       1.42   1.88   120   0 42    7.20
6. DBM/18.0 Kunming War Supply Misc. Contracts
DB0 18 1 Advance Works & Access Roads                               -   1 20   1.60   0 80   0 40       -       -    4 00       -   1 45   2 08    1.11   0 59        -      -    5.23
DBM/18.2 Railway Crossings                                          -   030   0 40   0 20   0.10        -         -    100      -   0.36   0 52    0.28   0.15       -       -    1 31
Subtotal DBM/18.0 Kunming Water Supply Misc. Contracts                -   1 50   2 00   1 00   0 50       -       -    5 00       -   1 81   2.60    1.39   0.74        -        -    654
Subtotal Civil Works                                                    -  1432  3405  26.64  3255  19.23   641   133.20            -  1729  4429   3699  48.06  3015   1067  187.46
B. Equipment and M aterials
1. DBM/22.1 Kunming No. I & Beijiaochang WTW
DBM/22 1 1 Kunming No 1 WTW                                         -   2 06  10 28  10.28   8.22   8.22   2 06   41 10         -   248   13 37   14.27  12.14  12.89   342   58 56
DBM/22 12 Beiliaochang WTW                                          -   234   1170  1170   9.36   9.36   234   4680             -   283   1522   1624   1382   1468   3.90   66.68
Subtotal DBM/22.1 Kunming No. 1 & Beijiaochang WTW                    -   4 40  21 98  21 98  17 58  17.58   4 40   87 90         -   5.31  28 58   30 51  25 96  27 57   7.32  125.24
2 DBMW27.1 Kunming Water Supply Power Supply                          -       -      -  1026   114         -      -   1140        -       -      -   14.25   1.68       -      -   15.93
3 DBM/29 1 Metenng 8 Leak Detection Equipment                         -   010    0 50   0 50   0 40   0 40   0.10    2 00         -   0 12   0 65    0 69    0 59   0 63   017    2.85
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                                        -   4 50  22 48  32 74  19 12  17 98   4.50  101.30         -   5.43  29 23   45.45  28 23  2819   7.49  144.02
C. Land Acquisiton and Resettlement                                  4.40   6 60           9.90   0 66   0.44       -   22.00    4 97   7 97           13.75   0 97   0 69       -   28.35
D. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                                           -   1 43   3 41   2 66   3 26   1 92   0 64   13 32         -   1.73   4 43    3 70   4 81   3.02   1 07   18 75
Equipment and Materals                                                -   0.45   2 25   3 27   1.91   1.80   0.45   10 13         -   0.54   2.92    4.55   2 82   2.82   0.75   14-40
LandAcquisitionandResettlement                                     044   0.66        -   0.99   007   0.04        -    220    050   0.80         -    1.37   0.10   007        -    2.83
Subtotal Engineering and Management                                  0.44   2 54   5.65   6.93   5.23   3 77   1.09   25.65    0.50   3.07   7.35    9.62   7 73   5.90   1.82   35.98
Total                                                                   484  2796  62 18  76.20  57.58  41.42  12.00  282 15    5.47  33.76  8088  105.80  8499  64.94  19.98  395.81



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 103. Kunming Solid Waste
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1996  1997  1998   1999   2000   2001  2002  Total   1996  1997   1998  1999   2000  2001  2002  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. DBM/5.0 Kunming Solid Waste Management
D8M/5.1 Western Sanitary Landfill                     -   3.54   5.31   3.54   3.54   1.77     -   17.70      -   4.47   7.22   5.14   5.46   2.90     -  25.19
DBM/5.2 Eastern Sanitary Landfill                     -   2.22   3.33   2.22   2.22   1.11     -   11.10      -   2.80   4.53   3.22   3.43   1.82     -   15.80
DBM/5.3 Medium/Small Transfer Stations                -   7.52  11.28   7.52   7.52   3.76     -   37.60      -   9.49  15.34  10.92  11.61   6.16     -   53.52
Subtotal DBM/5.0 Kunming Solid Waste Management         -  13.28  19.92  13.28  13.28   6.64     -   66.40      -  16.76  27.09  19.28  20.50  10.89     -   94.51
2. DBMN19.0 Kunming Solid Waste Misc. Contracts
DBM/19.1 Advance Site Works                           -   0.42   0.56   0.28   0.14      -     -    1.40      -   0.53   0.76   0.41   0.22      -          1.91      x
DBM/19.2 New Access Roads                             -   1.20   1.60   0.80   0.40      -     -    400       -   1.51   2.18   1.16   0.62      -     -    5.47
DBM/19.3 Close Existing Dumps & Minor Works           -   1 50   2.00   1.00   0.50      -     -    5.00      -   1.89   2.72   1.45   0.77      -    -    6.84
DBM/19.4 Upgrade Existing Access Roads                -   1.80   2.40   1.20   0.60      -     -    6.00      -   2.27   3.26   1.74   0.93      -     -    8.20
Subtotal DBM/19.0 Kunming Solid Waste Misc. Contracts   -  4.92   6.56   3.28   1.64       -     -   16.40      -   6.21   8.92   4.76   2.53      -     -   22.42
Subtotal Civil Works                                      -  1820  26.48  16.56  14.92   6.64      -  8280        - 22.98  36.01  24.04  23.03  10.89      -  116.94
B. Equipment and Materials
1. DBM/25.1 Kunming Solid Waste Equipment               -  10.01  16.68  16.68  13.34   6.67  3.34   66.70      -  12.63  22.68  24.20  20.59  10.93  5.81   96.84
2. DBM/28.1 Kunming Solid Waste Power Supply            -      -      -   2.25   0.25      -     -    2.50      -      -      -   3.27   0.39      -     -    3.65
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                          -  10.01  16.68  18.93  13.59   6.67  3.34   69.20      -  12.63  22.68  27.47  20.98  10.93  5.81  100.50
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                      -   9.50   1.06   9.50   0.63   0.42     -   21.10      -  11.99   1.43  13.78   0.98   0.69     -   28.87
D. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                             -   1.82   2.65   1.66   1.49   0.66     -    8.28      -   2.30   3.60   2.40   2.30   1.09     -   11.69
Equipment and Materials                                 -   1.00   1.67   1.89   1.36   0.67  0.33    6.92      -   1.26   2.27   2.75   2.10   1.09  0.58   10.05
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                       -   0.95   0.11   0.95   0.06   0.04     -    2.11      -   1.20   0.14   1.38   0.10   0.07     -    289
Total                                                        - 41.47  48.63  49.48  32.06  15.11  3.67  190.41       -  52.35  66.13  71.82  49.49  24.76  6.39  27094
X1



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 104. Small Towns
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                Totals Including Contingencies
1996 1997  1998  1999  2000 2001 2002  Total   1996 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. DBM16.0 Chenggong & Jinning Sewage Treatment Works
DBM16.1 Chenggong STW                                        -      -  6 00   7.50  1.50     -   -   15.00      -      -  8.16  10.89   2.32      -   -  21.36
DBM16.2 Jinning STW                                          -      -  6.00   7.50  1.50     -   -   15 00         -       8 16  10.89   2 32     -   -  21.36
Subtotal DBM/6.0 Chenggong&Jinning Sewage Treatment Works      -      - 1200  15.00  3.00      -   -  30.00       -      - 16.32  21.77   463       -   -  42.72
2. DBM7.0 Chenggong & Jinning Sewerage
DBMI7.1 Chenggong Sewerage                                   -      -  6 00   7 50  1.50     -   -   15 00      -      -  8.16  10.89   2.32      -   -  21.36
DBM/7.2 Jinning Sewerage                                     -      -   3.08   3.85  0.77    -   -    7.70      -      -  4.19   5.59   1.19      -   -   10.97
Subtotal DBMf7.0 Chenggong & Jinning Sewerage                  -      -  9.08  11.35  227      -   -  2270        -      -  12.35  16.48   3.50     -   -  32.33        @
Subtotal Civil Works                                             -      - 21.08  26.35  5.27     -   -  52.70       -      - 28.67  38 25   8.14      -   -  75.05
B. Equipment and Materials
1. DBMI23.0 Chenggong & Jinning Sewage Treatment Works
DBMI23.1 Chenggong STW                                       -      -  3 00   9.00  1.50  1.50    -   15 00     -      -  4.08  13.06   2.32   2.46    -  21.92
DBMW23.2 Jinning STW                                         -      -   3.00   9.00  1.50  1.50    -   15.00    -      -  4.08  13.06   2.32   2.46    -  21.92
Subtotal DBM/23.0 Chenggong&Jlnning Sewage Treatment Works     -      -  6.00  18.00  3.00  3.00    -  30.00         -       8.16  26.13   4.63   4.92    -  43.84
2. DBMW30.0 Chenggong & Jinning Miscellaneous
DBMI30 1 Chenggong Power Supply                              -      -  0 04   0.12  0.02  0.02    -   0.20      -      -  0.05   0.17   0.03   0.03    -   0.29
DBMt30.2 Jinning STW Power Supply                            -      -  0.08   0.24  0.04  0.04    -   0.40      -      -  0.11   0.35   0.06   0 07    -   0.58
Subtotal DBM/30.0 Chenggong &Jinning Miscellaneous             -      -  0.12   0.36  0.06  0.06    -    0.60     -      -  0.16   0.52   009   0.10    -   0.88
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                                 -      -  6.12  18.36  3.06  3.06    -  30.60      -      -  8.32  26.65   4.72   5.02    -  4471
C. LandAcquisition and Resettlemnent                             -  9.50   0.30   0.20     -    -   -  1000         - 11.99   0.41   0.29      -      -   -  12.69
D. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                                    -      -  2.11   2.64  0.53          -   5 27      -      -  2.87   3.82   0.81      -   -   7.50
Equiprment and Materials                                       -      -  0.61   1.84  0.31  0.31    -   3.06      -      -  0.83   2.67   0.47   0.50    -   4.47
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                              -  0.95   0.03   0.02    .    -   -    1.00        -  1.20   0.04   0.03      -      -   -    1.27
Total                                                                 10.45  30.25  49.40  9.16  3.37    -  102.63    - 13.19  41.14  71.71  14.14   5.52    - 145.70
XT



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 105. Rural Sanitation
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                              Totals Including Contingencies
1996 1997 1998  1999 2000  2001  2002  Total   1996 1997 1998  1999 2000 2001  2002  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. DBM/8.1 Rural Sanitation
DBM/8 1 1 Dou Nan Village                    -       1 24  1.86  2 17  0.62  0 31   6 20      -   -  1.69  2 70  3.35  1 02  0.54   9 29
DBM/8 1 2 Wu Long Village                    -   -  1 10  1 65  1 93  0 55  0.28   5 50       -    -  1.50  2.40  2.97  0. 90  0 48   8.24
DBM/8 1.3 Xiao He Village                    -   - 0.40  0.60  0.70  0.20  0.10   2.00        -   -  0.54  0.87  1.08  0.33  0.17   3.00
Subtotal DBM/8.1 Rural Sanitation              -    - 2 74  4.11  4.80  1.37  0.69  13 70       -   -  3.73  597  7.40  2.25  1 19  20.53
B. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                                        -           -    -      -           -     -     -        -      -
C. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                    -    - 0.27  0 41  0.48  0.14  0.07   1 37       -   -  0.37  0.60  0.74  0.22  0 12   2.05
Land Acquisition and Resettlement              -         -               -      -       -     -      - .         -     -        -
Total                                               -    - 301  4.52  5 27  1.51  0 75  15 07        -    - 4.10  6 56  8.14  2 47  1 31  22 59
CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project                                                  C
Table 201. Geiiu Wastewater                                                  
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                  Totals Including Contingencies
1996  1997   1998  1999  2000  2001 2002 Total   1996  1997   1998   1999  2000 2001 2002 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. GJ/1. 1 Gejiu Sewage Treatment Works            1 16   4.64   4.64  0.58  0.58     -    -  11 60    1.37   5.86   6.31   0.84  0.90     -    -  15.27
2. GJ/2.0 Gejiu Sewerage
GJ/2.1 Gejiu Interceptor Sewers                  057   2.28   2.28  0.29  029       -    -   570    067   288   3.10   041  044          -    -   751
GJt2.2 Gejiu Foulwater and Stormwater Pumping Statio   0.59   2.36   2.36  0.30  0.30  -   -   5 90    0 70   2.98   3 21   0.43  0 46   -    -   7 77
GJ1/2.3 Gejiu Foulwater Conveyor                 0 60   2.40   2 40  0.30  0.30     -   -   6 00    0.71   3.03   3.26   0.44  0.46      -    -   7 90
GJ/2.4 Gejiu Stormwater Tunnel                   0.63   2.52   2.52  0.32  0.32     -    -  630    0.74   3.18   3.43   0.46  0.49       -   -   8.30
Subtotal GJ/2.0 Gejiu Sewerage                     2.39   9.56   9.56  1.20  1.20     -    - 23 90    2.82  12.07  13.00   1.73  1.84      -   -  31 47
Subtotal Civil Works                                 3.55  14.20  14.20  1.78  1.78     -    - 35 50    4.19  17.93  19.31   2.58  2.74       -   -  46.74
B. Equipment and Materials
1. GJ/20.1 Gejiu Sewage Treatment Works               -   . -  4.60  5.75  0.58  0 58    -  11.50         -      -  6.26   8 35  0.89  0.94    -  16.43
2. GJ/22.11 Gejiu Sewerage Power Supply               -      -      -  0.45  0.05     -   -   0.50        -      -      -   0.65  0.08     -    -  0 73
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                        -      -   4.60  6.20  0.63  0.58    -  12.00              -   6.26   9.00  0.96  0.94    -  17.16
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                    -  2.09   0.07  0.04      -     -   -   2 20        -   2 64   0.09   0.06     -     -    -   2.79
D. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                        0 36   1 42   1.42  0 18  0.18     -    -   3 55    0 42   1 79   1 93   0 26  0 27        -     4 67
Equipmentand Materials                                -      -   0.46  0.62  0.06  006         1 20       -      -   063   090  0.10  009    -   1 72
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                     -   0.21   0.01  0.00           -   -   0 22        -   0.26   0.01   0.01     -     -         0.28
Subtotal EngineeringandManagement                    0.36   1.63   1.89  0.80  0.24  0.06        4.97    0.42   2.06   2.57   1.16  0.37  0.09    -   6.67
Total                                                   3.91  17 92  20.75  8.82  2.64  0.63    -  54 67    4.61  22.62  28.22  12.80  4.08  1.04       73.37



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 301. Qujing Wastewater
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                 Totals Including Contingencies
1996 1997 1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total   1996 1997 1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total
l. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1.QJ/1.1 Qujing Sewage Treatment Works             -    -    -  5.13   6.84   4.28  0.86  17.10       -    -    -  7.45  10.56   7.01  1.49   26.50
2. QJ/2.1 Qujing Sewerage                          -    -    -  7.50  10.00   6.25  1.25  25.00       -    -    -  10.89  15.44  10.25  2.18   38.75
3. QJ7.0 Qujing Sewerage Misc. Contracts
QJ/7.1 Advance Works                             -    - 0.24   0.36   0.48   0.12      -   1.20     -    - 0.33   0.52   0.74   0.20      -    1.79
QJ/7.2WorkerAccom. Outside STW                   -    - 0.06   0.09   0.12   0.03      -  0.30      -    - 0.08   0.13   0.19   0.05      -   0.45
Subtotal QJ/7.0 Qujing Sewerage Misc. Contracts    -    - 0.30   0.45   0.60   0.15      -   1.50     -    - 0.41   0.65   0.93   0.25      -   2.23
Subtotal Civil Works                                 -    - 0.30  13.08  17.44  10.68  2.11  43.60      -    - 0.41  18.99  26.92  17.50  3.66   67.48
B. Equipment and Materials
1. QJ/20.1 Qujing Sewage Treatment Works           -    -    -  8.28  13.80   2.76  2.76  27.60       -    -    - 12.02  21.30   4.52  4.81   42.65
2. QJ/23.1 Qujing Sewer Cleaning Equipment         -    -    -       -   1.80   0.90  0.30   3.00     -    -    -       -  2.78   1.48  0.52    4.78
3. QJ/24.1 Qujing Sewerage Power Supply            -    -    -  3.96   0.44        -    -  4.40       -    -    -   5.75   0.68       -    -   6.43
Subtotal Equipment and Materials                     -    -    -  12.24  16.04   3.66  3.06  35.00      -    -    -  17.77  24.76   6.00  5.33   53.85
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                 - 5.85  5.27   0.35   0.23      -    - 11.70       - 7.39  7.16   0.51   0.36      -    -   15.42
D. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                        -    - 0.03   1.31   1.74   1.07  0.21   4.36      -    - 0.04   1.90   2.69   1.75  0.37    6.75
Equipment and Materials                            -    -    -   1.22   1.60   0.37  0.31   3.50      -    -    -   1.78   2.48   0.60  0.53    5.39
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                  - 0.59  0.53   0.04   0.02      -        1.17      - 0.74  0.72   0.05   0.04      -    -    1.54
Total                                                  - 6.44  6.12  28.24  37.09  15.77  5.68  99.33     - 8.12  8.32  40.99  57.25  25.85  9.89  150.43
X~



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 302. Qujing Water Supply
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                   Totals Including Contingencies
1996 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total   1996 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 2002  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Clvil Works
1. QJI3.0 Qujing Water Supply Raw Water Conveyor
QJ/3.1 DuMutoQujing Raw Water Pipeline                -  5.05  20.20  15.15   5.05   5.05    -  50.50      -  6.38  27.47  21.99   7.80   8.28    -  71.91
QJ/3.2 Du Mu Tunnel                                   -  4.04  16.16  12.12   4.04   4.04    -  40.40      -  5.10  21.98  17.59   6.24   6.62    -  57.53
Subtotal QJ/3.0 Qujing Water Supply Raw Water Conveyor  -  9.09  36.36  27.27   9.09   9.09    -  90.90      - 11.48  49.44  39.58  14.03  14.90    - 129.44     O
2.QJI4.1 Qujing No.2WaterTreatment Works Extension      -  0.51   2.04   1.53   0.51   0.51    -   5.10      -  0.64   2.77   2.22   0.79   0.84    -   7.26     9
3.0J/5.1 QujingWaterSupptyDistribution System           -  2.10   8.40   6.30   2.10   2.10    -  21.00      -  2.65  11.42   9.14   3.24   3.44    -  29.90
4. QJI8.0 Qujing Water Supply Misc. Contracts
QJ/8.1 Advance Works                                  -     -  0.36   0.54   0.72   0.18    -    1.80      -     -  0.49   0.78   1.11   0.30    -   2.68
Subtotal Civil Works                                      - 11.70  47.16  35.64  12.42  11.88    -  118.80     -  14.77  64.13  51.73  19.17  19.48    - 169.28
B. Equipment and Materials
1. QJ/21.1 Qujing No. 2 Water Treatment Works Extension  -    -  2.20   2.20   0.55   0.55    -   5.50       -     -  2.99   3.19   0.85   0.90    -   7.94
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                      -  3.15   2.84   0.19   0.13     -   -   6.30        -  3.98   3.86   0.27   0.19      -   -   8.30
D. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                             -   1.17   4.72   3.56   1.24   1.19    -   11.88    -   1.48   6.41   5.17   1.92   1.95    -  16.93
Equipment and Materials                                -      -  0.22   0.22   0.06   0.06    -   0.55       -     -  0.30   0.32   0.08   0.09    -   0.79
Land Acquisition and Resettlement                      -  0.32   0.28   0.02   0.01      -   -   0.63        -  0.40   0.39   0.03   0.02     -   -    0.83
Total                                                       -  16.34  57.41  41.83  14.41  13.67    -  143.66    - 20.62  78.08  60.72  22.24  22.41    - 204.07



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 303. Qujing Solid Waste
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                              Totals Including Contingencies
1996 1997 1998 1999  2000  2001 2002  Total  1996 19S7 1998 1199  2000  2001  2002  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. ChMil Works
1. QJ/6.0 Qujlng Solid Waste Management
QJ/6.1 Sanitary Landfill                        -    - 1.98  3.96   2.97  0.99     -  9.90       -       2.69  5.75   4.58  1.62    -  14.65
QJ/6.2 Transfer Stations                        -    - 0.50  1.00   0.75  0.25     -  2.50               0.68  1.45   1.16  0.41    -  3.70
Subtotal QJ/. OQujlng Solid Waste Management      -    - 2.48  4.96   3.72  1.24     - 12.40       -    - 3.37  7.20   5.74  2.03     -  18.35       -
2. Q119.0 QuJlng Solid Waste Misc. Conbacts
0J19.1 Advance Works &Access Roads              -    - 0.36  054   0.72  0.18      -   1.80           - 0.49  0.78   1.11  0.30     -  2.68
QJ19.2 Closure of Existing Dumps& Minor Works   -    - 0.18  0.27   0.36  0.09     -  0.90       -    - 0.24  0.39   0.56  0.15     -   1.34
Subtotal 0JI9.0 Qujing Solid Waste Misc. Contracts  -    - 0.54  0.81   1.08  0.27   -  2.70       -    - 0.73  1.18   1.67  0.44     -  4.02
Subtotal CMI Works                                  -    - 3.02  5.77   4.80  1.51     - 15.10      -    - 4.11  8.38   7.41  2.48      - 22.37
B. Equipment and Materials
1.QJ/22.11Qujing Solid Waste Vehicles& Equipment  -    -    -    -  5.82  2.91  0.97   9.70       -    -    -    -  8.98  4.77  1.69  15.44
2. QJ/26.1 Qujing Solid Waste Power Supply        -    -    - 0.18   0.02      -    -  0.20       -    -    - 0.26   0.03       -    -  0.29
Subtotal Equiprnent and Materials                   -    -    - 0.18   5.84  2.91  0.97   9.90      -           - 0.26   9.01  4.77  1.69  15.74
C. Land Acquisition and Resettlenent                   0.95  0.86  0.06   0.04   -    -   1.90      - 1.20  1.16  0.08   0.06     -    -  2.50
D. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                       -    - 0.30  0.58   0.48  0.15     -   1.51     -    - 0.41  0.84   0.74  0.25      -  2.24
Equipment and Materials                           -    -    - 0.02   0.58  0.29  0.10   0.99            -    - 0.03   0.90  0.48  0.17   1.57
Land Acquisition and Resettlment                  - 0.10  0.09  0.01   0.00     .    -  0.19      - 0.12  0.12  0.01   0.01     -    -  0.25
Total                                                 - 1.05  4.26  6.61  11.75  4.86  1.07  29.59     - 1.32  5.80  9.59  18.13  7.97  1.86  44.67



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 401. Industry and Environment Pollution Control
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total    1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002 Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Industrial Pollution Control
1. Civil Works
IPC/1.1 Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory  1.25   3.75   5.00   1.25   1.25   -    -   12.50    1.48   4.73   6.80   1.81   1.93      -   -  16.75
IPC/1.2 Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory  1.78   5.34   7.12   1.78   1.78  -    -   17.80    2.05   6.57   9.43   2.52   2.68      -   -  23.23       a
SubtotalCivil Works                          3.03   9.09  12.12   3.03   3.03           -   30.30    3.52  11.30  16.23   4.33   4.61     -   - 39.99        C
2. Equipment and Materials
IPC/20.1 Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory  -  10.60  15.90  15.90   5.30   5.30    -   53.00      -  13.38  21.62  23.08   8.18   8.69    - 74.95
IPC/20.2 Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory  -  13.16  19.74  19.74   6.58   6.58   -   65.80      -  16.18  26.14  27.91   9.89  10.51    -  90.63
Subtotal Equipmentand Materials                - 23.76  35.64  35.64  11.88  11.88      -  118.80      - 29.56  47.77  50.99  18.07  19.19    - 165.58
3. Land Acquisiion and Resettlement         0.75   0.68   0 05   0.03      -      -    -    1.50    0.89   0.85   0.06   0.04      -      -   -   1.84
4. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                0.30   0.91   1.21   0.30   0.30     -    -    3.03    0.36   1.15   1.65   0.44   0.47      -   -  4.06
EquipmentandMaterials                        -  2.38   3.56   3.56   1.19   1.19      -   11.88      -  3.00   4.85   5.17   1.83   1.95    -  16.80
Land Acquisition and Resettlement         0.08   0.07   0.00   0.00      -      -    -    0.15    0.09   0.09   0.01   0.00      -      -   -   0.18
Subtotal Engineering and Management         0.38   3.35   4.78   3.87   1.49   1.19     -   15.06    0.45   4.23   6.50   5.62   2.30   1.95    -  21.05
Subtotal Industrial Pollution Control         4.16  36.88  52.59  42.57  16.40  13.07     -  165.66    4.85  45.95  70.56  60.98  24.98  21.14    - 228.46
B. Pollution Control Fund                        -  16.80  16.80  16.80  16.80  16.80    -   84.00       -  16.80  16.80  16.80  16.80  16.80    - 84.00.
Total                                            4.16  53.68  69.39  59.37  33.20  29.87    - 249.66    4.85  62.75  87.36  77.78  41.78  37.94    - 312.46
z



CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 501. Environment and Water Quality Monitoring
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                Totals Including Contingencies
1996 1997  1998  1999  2000 2001  2002  Total   1996 1997  1998   1999  2000  2001  2002  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1. EM/1.0 Environment Monitoring Works    - 2 55   2 55   2.13  0.85  043       -   8.50     - 3.22   3.47   3.08   1.31  0.70     -  11.78
B. Equipment and Materials
1. EM/20.0 Environment Monitoring Equipment    - 2.97   8 91   8 91  5 94  1 49  1.49  29.70  - 3 75  12.12  12.93   9.17  2.43  2.59  42.99
C. Engineering and Management
Civil Works                                - 0.26   0.26   0.21  0.09  0.04     -  0.85      - 0.32   0.35   0.31   0.13  0.07      -   1.18
Equipment and Materials                    - 030   0.89   0.89  0.59  0.15  0.15   2.97      -  0.37   1.21   1.29   0.92  0.24  0.26   4.30
Total                                          - 6.07  12.61  12.14  7.47  2.10  1.63  42.02      -  7.67  17.14  17.62  11.53  3.44  2.84  60.25
0
CHINA
Yunnan Environment Project
Table 601. Institutional Development and Training
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                     Totals Including Contingencies
1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001  2002  Total    1996  1997  1998   1999  2000  2001   2002   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Tech Asst and Tmg
1. IDT/1.0 Institutional Development and Training    8.60  21.50  21.50  17.20   8.60  4.30  4.30   86.00    10.15  27.14  29.24  24.97  13.28   7.05   7.49  119.31
2. IDT/2.0 Construction Supervision         4.40  11.00  11.00   8.80   4.40  2.20  2.20   44.00   5.19  13.89  14.96  12.77   6.79   3.61   3.83   61.04
Total                                          13.00  32.50  32.50  26.00  13.00  6.50  6.50  130.00    15.35  41.03  44.20  37.74  20.07  10.66  11.32  180.35    Z



-106 -                                  ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: SCHEDULE OF CONTRACT PACKAGES
Contract                                            Procurement  Base Cost
No. Description                                     Type    (Y million)           Remarks
A      Lake Dianchi Basin Management
A. I   Kunming Wastewater
Civil Works
DBM/    1.1   Urban Districts Sewerage                         ICB         147.0
1.2   Northem and Eastem Suburbs Sewerage            ICB        121.7
1.3   Westem and Southem Suburbs Sewerage            ICB        122.3
2.1   No 4B & 5 Sewage Treatment Works (STW)         ICB          74.2
2.2   No I STW Extension                            NCB           29.5
2.3   No I STW Upgrading                            NCB           11.7
17.1   Railway Crossings                           DC(NBF)          6.9    Railway Bureau contract
17.2   Connections and Minor Works                   NCB          20.0    Several contracts
Equipment & Materials
DBM/   20.1   No 4B & 5 STW Equipment                          ICB          86.9    PQ required
21.1   No I STW Equipment                             ICB         45.0    PQ required
24.1   Sewer Cleaning Equipment                    ICB/IS/LS        4.0
26.1   Power Supply                                DC(NBF)          8.0    Electricity Co contract
A.2    Kunming Water Supply
Civil Works
DBM/    3.1   Raw Water Pipelines                              NCB          39.3
3.2   Distribution Pipelines                        NCB          23.0
3.3   Songhuaba Reservoir Augmentation              NCB           10.0
4.1   No I Water Treatment Plant (WTP)              NCB          22.9
4.2   Beijiaochang WTW                              NCB          27.9
4.3   Beijiaochang Service Reservoir                NCB            5.1
18.1   Advance Works and Access Roads                NCB           4.0
18.2   Railway Crossings                           DC(NBF)          1.0    Railway Bureau contract
Equipment & Materials
DBM/   22.1   No I WTP Equipment                               ICB          41.1    PQ Required
22.2   Beijiaochang WTP Equipment                     ICB          46.8    PQ Required
27.1   Power Supply                                DC(NBF)         11.4    Electricity Co contract
29.1   Misc. Leak Detection and Bulk Meters        ICBINCB/         2.0
IS/LS
A.3    Kunming Solid Waste
Civil Works
DBM/    5.1   Westem Sanitary Landfill                         NCB          17.7
5.2   Eastem Sanitawy Landfill                      NCB           11.1
5.3   Small and Medium Transfer Stations            NCB          37.6
19.1   Advance siteworks                             NCB            1.4
19.2   New Access Roads                              NCB           4.0
19.3   Closure of Existing Sites and Minor Works     NCB           5.0
19.4   Upgrade existing access roads                 NCB           6.0
Equipment & Materials
DBM/   25.1   Solid Waste Vehicles and Equipment La         ICB/ISfLS       66.7
28.1   Power Supply                                DC(NBF)          2.5    Electricity Co contract



-107-                                 ANNEX4
Contract                                         Procurement Base Cost
No. Description                                 Type    (Y million)          Ramarks
A.4   Small Towns
Civil Works
DBM/   6.1   Chenggong Sewage Treatment Works (STW)        NCB          15.0
6.2  Jinning STW                                 NCB          15.0
7.1   Chenggong Sewerage                         NCB          15.0
7.2  Jinning Sewerage                            NCB           7.7
Equipment & Materials
DBM/  23.1   Chenggong STW Equipment                        ICB         15.0
23.2  Jinning STW Equipment                       ICB          15.0
30.1   Chenggong & Jinning Power Supply         DC (NBF)        0.6   Electricity Co Conbact
A.5    Rural Sanitation
Civil Works
DBM/    8.1   Rural Sanitation                             NCB          13.7   Several contracts
B     Industrial Pollution Control
Civil Works
IPC/     1.1   Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory         NCB         12.5   Several contracts
2.1   Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory       NCB          17.8   Several contracts
Equipment & Materials
IPC/    20.1   Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory       ICB/NCB       53.0
21.1   Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory     ICB/NCB        65.8
C     Environmental Monitoring
Civil Works
EM!       I. I   Environmental Monitoring Facilities       NCB          8.5   Several contracts
Equipment & Materials
EM/    20.1   Environmental Monitoring Equipment        ICB/NCB/       29.7
IS/LS
D     Gejiu Wastewater
Civil Works
GS/       1.1   Gejiu Sewage Treatment Works (STW)         NCB          11.6
2.1   Sewerage, Pumping Station and Tunnel       NCB          23.9   Separate schedules
Equipment & Materials
GS/     20.1   Gejiu STW Equipment                         ICB          11.5
22.1   Power Supply                             DC(NBF)         0.5
E     Qujing Environment Component
E. I   Qujing Wastewater
Civil Works
QJI/     1.1   Qujing Sewage Treatment Works (STW)         NCB          17.1
2.1   Sewerage Network                           NCB          25.0
7.1   Site Clearance and Advance Works           NCB           1.2
7.2   Staff Quarters                             NCB           0.3
Equipment & Materials
QJ/     20.1   Qujing STW Equipment                        ICB         27.6
23.1   Sewer Cleaning Equipment                 lCB/IS/LS       3.0
24.1   Power Supply                             DC(NBF)         4.4   Electricity Co contra
E.2    Qujing Water Supply
Civil Works
Ql/      3.1   Raw Water Conveyor Pipelines                ICB         50.5
3.2   Raw Water Conveyor Du Mu Tunnel            NCB          40.4
4.1   No 2 Water Treatment Plant (WTP) Extension  NCB          5.1



-108-                                 ANNEX 4
Contract                                         Procurement Base Cost
No. Description                                  Type    (Y million)           Rernaiks
5.1   WS Distribution Network                     NCB          21.0
8.1   Site Clearance and Advance Works            NCB           1.8
Equipment & Materials
QJ      21.1   No 2 WTP Equipment Extension                 ICB           5.5
E.3    Qujing Solid Waste
Civil Works
QJ/      6.1   Sanitary Landfill                            NCB           9.9
6.2   Transfer Stations                           NCB           2.5
9.1   Advance Works and Access Roads              NCB           1.8
9.2   Closure of Existing Sites and Minor Works   NCB           0.9
Equipment & Materials
QI      22.1   Solid Waste Vehicles and Equipment           ICB           9.7
26.1   Power Supply                              DC(NBF)         0.2   Electricity Co contract
Institutional Development and Training (IDT)
Technical Assistance Training & Studies
Package A: Kunrning Drainage Company              BG
Package B: Kunming Water Supply Company          BG
Package C: Kunming Solid Waste                   BG
Package D: Qujing Water & Wastewater Company     BG
Package E: Qujing Solid Waste                    BG
Package F: Gejiu Wastewater                       BG
Yunnan Environmental Project Office               BG
Package G: Environmental Quality Monitoring       BG
Package H: Training and MIS Support               BG
Other
Master Planning and other studies                 BG
Equipment and Support for Provincial Financial Bureaus BG
Support for Dianchi Lake Basin Authority         BG
Future Project Preparation                       BG
Legend
BG = Bank Guidelines for Procurement of Consultants
DC = Direct Contracting
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
IS/LS = Intemational/local Shopping
NBF = Not Bank Financed
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
PQ = Prequalification required
da To include vehicles for Drainage Company, Water Company and Waste Disposal Authority.



-109 -                      ANNEXs
ANNEX 5: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Bank/IDA fiscal year    Semester                                    Bank
and semester      IDA      IBRD    Cumulative        Project   Profile la
-    ------- ($ million) ---------------    ----------- (%)---------
1997
First lk             6.0       0.0       6.0             4.0        0.0
Second               5.1       0.0      11.1             7.4        3.0
1998
First                8.2       0.0      19.3            12.9       26.0
Second               5.7      11.1     36.1             24.0       26.0
1999
First                         19.2      55.3            36.9       38.0
Second                        20.8      76.1            50.7       42.0
2000
First                         22.3      98.4            65.6       62.0
Second                        18.5    116.9             77.9       82.0
2001
First                         14.6    131.5             87.7       68.0
Second                         9.1    140.6             93.8       98.0
2002
First                          5.6    146.2             97.4       98.0
Second                         2.8    149.0             99.4      100.0
2003
First                          1.0    150.0            100.0
Second
la Disbursement profile for China (water and sanitation sector) issued August 1995.
l2 Includes initial Special Account disbursement of $5 million.
l Includes balance of Special Account disbursement of $3 million (from Loan).



-110-                       ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
ACTION PLAN
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The implementation of the Yunnan Environment Project (YEP) entails land
acquisition and resettlement/rehabilitation of affected persons.  In order to facilitate
mitigation of the adverse land acquisition related impacts of the project, YEPO has prepared
a Resettlement Action Plan.
2.    The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for YEP covers project components located in
the cities of Kunming, Qujing and Gejiu; and in several sites in the Dianchi Basin. This
annex describes the likely land acquisition and resettlement impacts of YEP and discusses
the framework developed by the Provincial and Municipal Governnents for implementing
and financing land acquisition and resettlement activities. Section B describes the impacts
of the project and the surveys carried out to measure them. Section C sets out the
implementation framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement (LAR).  YEP
implementation would commence in 1996 and continue to 2001.
B. PROJECT IMPACTS
3.    The following project components would require land acquisition and/or
resettlement/rehabilitation of affected persons:
Provincewide
(a)   Environmental Management and Monitoring Project;
Kunming City
(b)   Sewage Treatment Works Number 1;
(c)   Sewage Treatment Works Number 4;
(d)   Sewage Treatment Works Number 5 (East);
(e)   West Suburban Sewer Networks;
(f)    Municipal Sewer Networks;
(g)   Municipal Water Supply;
(h)   Municipal Solid Waste;
(i)   Industrial Pollution Control;



- 111 -                     ANNEX6
Dianchi Basin
(j)    Chenggong Sewage Treatment;
(k)   Jinning Sewage Treatment;
(1)    Rural Sanitation;
Qujing
(m)   Urban Sewage Treatment;
(n)   Urban Solid Waste;
(o)   Urban Water Supply; and
Gejiu
(p)   Urban Sewage Treatment.
4.    Construction of these project components requires land acquisition, together with
the rehabilitation and/or resettlement of the affected persons. In order to determine the
impact of project components on the affected people and property each implementing
agency decided to conduct a census survey of affected persons and properties and to collect
socioeconomic data.
Census Survey
5.    A Census Survey has been carried out in stages commencing in July 1995 in
collaboration with the local governments. The detailed surveys are progressively updated
as the technical designs are finalized. The data set out here represent the situation by
March 29, 1996. Most of the project components have been approved to the Feasibility
Study Stage. The Feasibility Study usually sets the broad parameters for land acquisition,
following which the implementing agencies can notify the affected townships, and the
detailed census of affected persons and properties can begin. There would be small changes
as the Design Studies for project components are completed and approved. Since some
census surveys have still to be finalized in sites for which boundaries have been recently
changed, some figures presented here may be subject to minor change.
6.    Preliminary impacts are summarized as follows:
(a)   The total amount of land to be acquired is 215 hectares. Most of the sites
are greenfield sites on the urban fringes;
(b)   About 100 hectares of land would be borrowed temporarily during
construction;
(c)   No houses need to be relocated;
(d)   A total of 3,090 persons are affected by land acquisition;



-112 -                      ANNEX6
(e)   Most of the affected persons can be reabsorbed back into agriculture through
land redistribution, but 890 people (including dependents) would need to be
provided with nonagricultural, enterprise jobs. The latter group will be
offered a choice between jobs in enterprises, or cash compensation in lieu of
jobs. All workers, regardless of age, will be offered cash compensation at
the rate needed to maintain incomes;
(f)   The project will affect about 70 workers in 4 enterprises until enterprise
production facilities are reconstructed.
7.    Preliminary socioeconomic data regarding the affected persons are being collected
by the implementing agencies. Before each contract is initiated an appointed institution
would conduct detailed baseline socioeconomic surveys of the affected people in each
contract.  This work would be completed before initiation of land acquisition and
resettlement activities for each project component. The baseline survey would measure the
income levels and standards of living of the affected persons before land acquisition and
resettlement. This baseline survey would form the basis for comparing their income levels
and standards of living as reported by the monitoring reports during project implementation.
Minimization of Land Acquisition and Resettlement
8.    Most of the Feasibility Studies included an analysis of land acquisition and possible
resettlement, as part of the identification of project options. While the selection between
options was based on technical and economic criteria, the potential impact on project
affected persons was also considered. For example, the Kunming Water Supply and Solid
Waste projects have endeavored to select sites further from concentrated populations that
minimize disruption to communities. The Maliohe Reservoir Xiyuan Tunnel Stage 2
project component would have inundated three villages and relocated some 1,500 people.
The YEP has excluded this project component on technical, economical and social grounds.
After careful review the number of people requiring relocation of housing has been reduced
to zero.
C. FRAMEWORK FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF LAND ACQUISITION AND
RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITIES
9.    The RAP describes the framework for implementing the land acquisition and
resettlement program. The framework comprises the following elements:
(a)   Objectives and principles of land compensation and resettlement;
(b)   Legal framework and resettlement policies;
(c)   Provisions for job creation
(d)   Resettlement Institutions and Agencies



-113 -                      ANNEX6
(e)   Costs and budget
(f)   Implementation schedule and arrangements for resettlement
(g)   Participation and consultation with affected persons
(h)   Redressal of grievance and appeals process
(i)    Monitoring and evaluation of RAP implementation.
10.   The RAP, covering the above components of resettlement implementation
framework, has been prepared by YEPO based on discussions with the concerned levels of
government; the resulting RAP has been approved by the concerned provincial and
municipal authorities, and would be implemented as an integral part of the YEP. The
components of the frarnework for implementation are described below.
Objectives and Principles of Resettlement
11.   The main objective of the land acquisition and resettlement (LAR) is to ensure that
the standards of living and income levels of all categories of affected persons are improved,
or at least restored, after resettlement. The main principles for implementing the LAR
program are as follows:
(a)   Minimize land acquisition and resettlement as much as possible through
choice of project components and changes in design and alignment;
(b)   Pay compensation for all structures at the replacement value of those
structures;
(c)   Pay compensation for collective land to the local collective.  This
compensation would be used to increase the productive capacity of the
collectives and would not be used for any other purpose.
(d)   Agencies will arrange jobs in nonagricultural enterprises for persons whose
lands are acquired and who are left with less than the economic per capita
landholding, to ensure that their income levels and standard of living are at
least restored, or improved.
(e)   All the civic facilities, such as municipal roads, communication, lighting,
sewerage, treatment work, etc. will be restored at the new locations. The
YEP will fully compensate for transfer and reconstruction at replacement
cost.
(f)    The YEP will reconstruct all affected enterprises at nearby locations at the
same standard as before.



-114-                       ANNEX6
(g)   The YEP will compensate and resettle persons affected by temporary land
borrow to restore their standards of living.
(h)   YEP agencies will plan and implement land acquisition and resettlement
activities with the participation of affected persons and their representatives.
(i)    The affected persons or enterprises have avenues for redress of their
grievances and if they are not satisfied with the outcome, they can appeal to
higher authority and to civil courts.
12.   The situation of persons whose lands are affected has been reviewed by YEPO and
the implementing agencies.  They would be offered a choice between jobs in
nonagricultural enterprises and self-employment with a cash compensation payment. The
cost ranges from Y 13,000 to Y 15,000 in Kunming and is Y 10,000 in Qujing and Gejiu
and will be finalized taking into account the labor market situation and income cost from
farming. Those opting for jobs would be paid a transition allowance until jobs are provided.
In addition to income restoration for older people at the same rates, special rehabilitation
measures will be taken to ensure that elderly affected persons are able to maintain their
standards of living. The YEP implementing agencies will raise these rates if they are not
sufficient to maintain standards of living.
13.   The following guidelines and principles would be followed:
(a)   New houses of the affected persons would be of at least the same standard as
the affected houses or equal to the minimum current standard, whichever is
the greater;
(b)   All civic infrastructure would be replaced at project cost;
(c)   All affected enterprises would be assisted to resume operations at nearby
locations provided by the local governments;
(d)   Workers would be provided with allowances equivalent to their salaries for
the period of closure of their enterprises; and
(e)   Planning and implementation of the LAR program would be carried out with
the participation of the affected persons and their representatives
14.   The affected persons and enterprises would be able to redress their grievances, if
any, from the LAR program, and if they are not satisfied, can appeal to higher authorities
and courts.
Legal Framework and Resettlement Policies
15.   The RAP has been prepared based on the following laws, regulations and guidelines
for land acquisition and resettlement issued by various authorities in China:



-115 -                      ANNEX6
(a)   The People's Republic of China Land Management Law;
(b)   The People's Republic of China Land Management Implementation Act;
(c)   Rules Of Land Acquisition For National Construction;
(d)   Land Administration Implementation Measures of Yunnan Province 1994;
(e)   Regulations To Handle Transfer Of Nonagricultural Land In Acquiring
Collective Farmland For National Construction in Yunnan Province;
(f)    Measures To Arrange Surplus Labor After Land Acquisition For National
Construction issued by Kumning Municipal Government in 1989:
(i)    Notice on compensation for vegetable land issued by Kunming
Municipal Government;
(ii)    Yunnan Province: Implementation of Measures of People's Republic
of China Temporary rules of Land Utilization Tax;
(iii)    Yunnan Provincial Government: Implementing Measures of Land
Acquisition Tax;
(iv)    Urgent Notice on Implementing Land Administrative Laws And
Regulations issued by Qujing Municipal Government; and
(v)    Specific Measures Of Land Administration In Honghe Hani-Yi
Autonomous Prefecture (Draft) issued by Honghe Prefecture
Government in 1990.
16.   The implementation of land acquisition and resettlement program would be carried
out in accordance with the specific provisions of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP).
Compensation/Resettlement Policies for Different Categories of Project Impacts
17.   The following categories of project impacts we assessed during the census survey of
affected persons and properties:
(a)   Permanent land acquisition of collective land;
(b)   Temporary acquisition of collective land;
(c)   Loss of housing;
(d)   Partial impacts on houses and other structures;
(e)   Relocation of various types of enterprises; state, TVE and private;



-116-                      ANNEX6
(f)   Temporarily affected persons;
(g)   Loss of employment in agriculture;
(h)   Temporary loss of employment in agriculture due to temporary land
acquisition;
(i)   Impacts on public infrastructure and other assets
0)    Loss of standing crops;
(k)   Indirect impacts in the disturbance zone; and
(1)    Relocation allowance.
18.   The compensation and/ or resettlement policies for the above categories of impacts
are as follows:
(a)   Permanent Land Acquisition Of Collective Land. The borrower or
implementing agencies would pay compensation to the affected township
government. The rates have been provided in the RAP. The township
governments would use compensation payments to develop the productive
potential of the township residents through the development of agriculture-
based and nonagriculture-based economic activities;
(b)   Temporary Leasing of Land During Construction. Borrower agencies
would compensate for temporary land leasing at the rate of up to
Y 10,000 mu 'for a period of half to one year, based on gross agricultural
output value of the land.  With this compensation local township
governments would arrange the economic rehabilitation of persons affected
temporarily;
(c)   Loss of Housing. Persons losing government owned or private apartments
and houses in Kunming, Qujing and Gejiu would have the options of:
(i)    moving into a community-built house of the same standard as
previous house, without any extra payment; and
(ii)   self-constructing a house upon payment of compensation at
replacement value for the affected house or structure. No deductions
would be made for depreciation.
I mu = 0.0667 ha or 0.1648 ac.



-117 -                      ANNEX6
19.   The RAP provides full details of housing allocation and reconstruction options, as
follows:
(a)   Partial Impacts on Structures.  Borrower agencies would pay full
replacement value as compensation;
(b)   Impact on Enterprises. Land Departments would, in consultation with
local governments, allocate alternative plots to affected enterprises.
Borrower agencies would compensate enterprises at replacement rates for
affected buildings, structures and other fixtures and furnishings. They
would pay the full cost of transfer of facilities. They would compensate
affected workers in lieu of salaries at rates equivalent to the monthly salaries
of the workers.  They would compensate affected TVE and private
enterprises for net losses in production during the period when production is
stopped;
(c)   Shops and Small Businesses. Land Departments, in consultation with local
governments, would provide such businesses with alternative plots for
continuing their businesses. Borrower agencies would compensate such
businesses for the net losses in income during the period when their business
is closed;
(d)   Temporarily Affected Enterprises. Borrower agencies would compensate
such enterprises at replacement value with regard to special features of
construction. No deduction would be made for depreciation. Arrangements
would be made to provide temporary alternative sites to affected enterprises.
Staff would be compensated for loss of salary and production losses would
be compensated;
(e)   Loss Of Employment In Agriculture.  All farmers forced out of
agriculture by land acquisition would be given the option of self-
employment or jobs in  nonagricultural enterprises.   The project
implementing agencies would pay an amount of Y 13,000-15,000/ person to
the enterprises for providing jobs to affected persons. During the relocation
period they would pay workers Y 150/month as a subsistence allowance. In
case the affected persons do not receive jobs within three months from the
date of land acquisition, the borrower agencies would provide temporary
jobs to them until they can be provided jobs in enterprises. In case the
affected persons want to opt for self-employment, they would be provided
with the same amount in lieu of jobs in enterprises. Affected persons above
age of 50 years would be eligible for income restoration at the same rate. In
addition to this, specific measures would be taken by the borrower agencies
and the local governments to ensure that the standards of living of the
elderly persons are restored after relocation;



-118 -                      ANNEX6
(f)   Temporary Loss Of Employment In Agriculture.  The borrower
implementing agencies would pay the respective township governments up
to Y 10,000 per mu of land affected by temporary land borrow. With the
help of this compensation amount, the local governments would plan
rehabilitation activities for affected persons.   Upon completion of
construction, the borrower agencies would return the land to the local
township after restoring it to its original condition;
(g)   Impact On Public Infrastructure And Other Assets.  All civic
infrastructure would be compensated at replacement rates without any
deduction for depreciation. The infrastructure would be reconstructed by the
respective departments;
(h)   Loss Of Standing Crops. Standing crops compensation would be paid
directly to the affected farmers at the full market value of affected crops;
(i)   Indirect Impacts In The Disturbance Zone. Indirect impacts, if any, due
to the construction of the project, on structures in the disturbance zone
would be compensated for at the full replacement rates. Structures needing
repairs would be compensated fully for the repairs. If any houses need to be
relocated due to such impact, they would be treated on the same lines as
houses affected by permanent land acquisition; and
(j)    Relocating households would be paid at full replacement values.
20.  In case it were found that the standards of living of any category of affected persons
have not been restored after relocation or resettlement, the borrower implementing agency
would be responsible to take additional measures to ensure that the main objective of the
RAP is to be achieved.
Job Creation
21.   All of the persons forced out of agriculture by land acquisition would be provided
with jobs in nonagricultural enterprises or have the option of self-employment. The number
of persons to be provided jobs is calculated on the basis of maintaining the average per
capita land holding in Yunnan Province and other involved cities. Out of the 3,090 affected
persons, some 890 are eligible for new employment. This includes those older workers who
will be offered income restoration at the cash compensation rate for self-employment. Jobs
to the eligible persons would be provided through one of the following methods:
(a)   Provide jobs in state enterprises;
(b)   Provide jobs in collective (township and village) enterprises;
(c)   Private enterprises; and



-119 -                     ANNEX6
(d)   Self-employment
22.   Job creation is the responsibility of the borrower implementing agencies assisted by
the Yunnan Provincial and other Cities Land Management Bureau, and the Labor Bureau at
various levels. Arrangements to provide jobs to eligible labor are necessary before the
Construction Land Use Certificate is issued by the planning and land administrative
departments in each project city. The borrower implementing agencies would pay a sum to
be determined per worker to township enterprises and a sum to be determined per worker to
other enterprises for job creation. In case the affected person opts for self-employment
he/she would be paid a resettlement subsidy of a minimum of sum to be determined and an
additional sum to be determined for each additional year.
23.   Jobs should be provided within one month of signing the agreement for land
acquisition and resettlement between borrowers and the Local Land Acquisition Bureau.
However, if they jobs are not provided within three months of land acquisition, borrower
agencies would provide temporary jobs to affected persons until enterprise jobs can be
provided. The wage level for the temporary jobs would be at least equivalent to the
minimum wage level in the municipality/county. They would pay a monthly subsistence
allowance to each eligible worker for a period of three months. The names of enterprises
that would provide jobs are set out in the RAP.
24.   The persons eligible for job creation would be trained in specific skills before they
are employed on the job. The training would be provided by agencies to be determined.
Out of the resettlement subsidy to be paid to enterprises Y 200/worker would be reserved
especially for training.
Resettlement Institutions and Agencies
25.   The Yunnan Provincial Government (YPG) has vested overall responsibility for
coordination of planning and implementation of resettlement activities with YEPO. YEPO
and the Municipal project offices in Kunming, Qujing and Gejiu are responsible for
coordinating resettlement activities.  The actual planning and implementation of
resettlement would be carried out by the borrower implementing agencies together with
local land administration departments, township and village governments. Apart from
these, the main departments, bureaus and agencies responsible for various aspects of LAR
planning, implementing, coordinating and monitoring resettlement activities are the
following:
(a)   The Planning Administration Office in each project city;
(b)   The Yunnan Provincial and Municipal Land Administration Bureau for
Kunming, Qujing and Gejiu;
(c)   The Labor Bureau for Kunming, Qujing and Gejiu; and



-120 -                     ANNEX6
(d)   Research Institute of Foreign Capital Introduction and Utilization,
Southwest Communication University (Monitoring and Evaluation Agency).
26.  In addition to the above, YEPO would convene a Land Acquisition and
Resettlement (LAR) Group with members from all involved agencies. This group would
meet every four months throughout resettlement implementation to resolve coordination
issues.
27.   Staff of YEPO have attended the Resettlement Training Program organized by the
World Bank at Nanjing in April 1995. The staff who received training at Nanjing have
been conducting inhouse training programs in YEPO and other project offices. Officials of
key departments of YPG also attended the regular discussions and seminars with YEPO
officials. YEPO would organize a training program at times to be determined throughout
resettlement implementation.
Costs and Budget
28.   The costs of RAP implementation would be a part of the overall budget of the YEP.
The annual requirement of funds would be included in the annual investment plan for the
project. The base cost of land acquisition and resettlement is estimated to be approximately
Y 156 million. The detailed cost estimates (shown annually) would be provided. Each
borrower implementing agency would pay the funds for RAP implementation to the
respective labor and land administration departments, state and collective enterprises and
public utility companies. They would spend the funds based on the specific provisions of
the RAP.
29.   Borrower agencies would pay 4 percent of the total LAR cost to cover the
administrative expenses to the Land Administration Departments responsible for
implementing LAR agreements. The cost estimates would be adjusted annually based on
the actual inflation rate for the past year. Physical contingencies of 15 percent of the cost
estimates would also be budgeted. Each borrower implementing agency is responsible for
provision of adequate funds to carry out RAP implementation. Cost overruns, if any, would
be incurred by each such agency.
Implementation of Land Acquisition and Resettlement
30.   There would be 16 separate contracts with separate "startup" dates of construction
ranging from July 1996. The land acquisition and resettlement activities would be specified
in detail in the RAP. On any given contract RAP activities should be completed at least one
month before the proposed date of start of construction on that contract.  Each
implementing agency would certify before the start of any given contract that the LAR
activities on that contract have been completed. Annex 8 sets out the proposed startup and
completion dates for the various contracts. A "Generic Implementation Schedule" has been
prepared based on the estimated time likely to be taken for each activity under the LAR
program. This can be used to arrive at the specific dates of completion of the various land



-121-                        ANNEX6
acquisition and resettlement activities in any contract by providing the proposed startup date
for resettlement activities.
Participation and Consultations
31.   The LAR program has been designed with the active involvement of affected
persons and their representatives. The affected persons are informed about the project after
the Feasibility Study is approved by the Municipal and Provincial Planning Commissions.
The affected persons and their representatives participated in the census surveys carried out
by each implementing agency and project office. A notice of LAR would be given to each
affected household after the project is approved by the Bank/IDA. The borrower agencies,
assisted by local government, would inform the affected persons and households about the
project, the proposed resettlement and the specific entitlements of each affected household.
Each borrower agency would also locate a field office, easily accessible to the affected
persons, within the affected area, in order to provide information to affected persons and
resolve their grievances. The affected persons would participate in the following activities:
(a)    Select specific resettlement locations for residential sites and for enterprises;
(b)   Construct their own houses (depending on their option);
(c)    Transfer their assets to the new houses;
(d)    Select enterprises for jobs;
(e)    Exercise the option of self-employment; and
(f)    Manage implementation of the LAR  program  through their village,
township representatives.
Resettlement Information Booklet
32.   Resettlement Information Booklets are being prepared for each affected site. The
booklets will have a common section with overall regulations and principles and a section
laying out the resettlement arrangements specific to each affected area. The wide variation
among cities leads to different solutions in several cases. The booklet will be given to each
affected person, ensuring their knowledge of their rights under the project, and avenues of
appeal of their rights, are respected.
Redressal of Grievances and the Appeals Process
33.   In order to ensure that the affected persons have avenues for redressing their
grievances, detailed procedures for redressal of grievances would be established. This
procedure is likely to comprise certain stages. First, the affected person could lodge a
grievance with the local township Land Management Bureau, to which the Bureau should
respond within 15 days. Second, in case the person is not satisfied, an appeal could be
made to a department within the District Government within a specified time frame from



-122 -                      ANNEX6
the date of response from the Land Management Bureau at township level. Third, if still
unsatisfied, the affected person could appeal to a department within the Municipal
Government for redressing the grievance. Finally, if still unsatisfied, an appeal can be
lodged with the People's Court within 15 days of receiving the decision from Municipal
level. For grievances related to job provision, the respective Labor Bureau at the various
levels would be the appropriate authorities. The grievance could be for any aspect of the
RAP program, including rates of compensation. Grievance mechanisms would be widely
publicized among the affected persons.
Monitoring and Evaluation
34.   In order to ensure that the implementation of the LAR program would be carried out
in accordance with the provisions of the RAP, detailed monitoring and evaluation, both
intemal and external, would be carried out, both during and after implementation of the
project.
(a)   Internal Monitoring. Each borrower agency would be responsible for
internal monitoring of the LAR program. This would be coordinated by
YEPO. Monitoring would be carried out based on the provisions of the
RAP. The main indicators to be monitored are payment of compensation,
allotment of housing in accordance with the options exercised, provision of
jobs or alternative agricultural land, restoration of public facilities, payment
of self-employment subsidy and restoration of production activities of
enterprises. The internal monitoring reports would be prepared every six
months. Preliminary monitoring formats have been prepared and would be
provided as an annex to the RAP. Internal monitoring would be carried out
on a quarterly basis and an internal monitoring report would be submitted to
the Bank/IDA every six months. The first internal monitoring report will be
submitted on December 31, 1996. The report would be discussed in the next
meeting of LAR Group which would also recommend detailed follow-up
measures.
(b)   External Monitoring. An independent agency would be contracted to
conduct extemal monitoring and evaluation of the LAR program. In
addition to verifying the results of the internal monitoring reports, this
institute would monitor the following qualitative indicators: (i) timeliness
and adequacy of compensation payments; (ii) the linkage of land acquisition
and resettlement; (iii) timely provision of appropriate jobs or altemative
agricultural land; (iv) adequate restoration of civic infrastructure;
(v) relocation of enterprises in accordance with the policy provisions
contained in the RAP; (vi) provision of altemative housing in accordance
with the option exercised and in a timely manner; (vii) levels of satisfaction
among the affected persons; (viii) standards of living after relocation. In
order to measure the standards of living after resettlement, this institute



-123 -                     ANNEX6
would conduct another socioeconomic survey of the resettled persons about
one year after project completion.
35.   The methodology for carrying out extemal monitoring and evaluation has been
described in the RAP. The selected extemal monitoring institute would maintain a data
base with files on each affected household, which would be updated based on information
collected in successive rounds of monitoring. The Monitoring and Evaluation Report
would be prepared by this institute every six months, until construction of all subprojects is
completed. The first external monitoring report will be submitted to the Bank/IDA on
February 28, 1997. The report would be discussed in the next meeting of LAR group and
specific follow-up measures would be initiated by the LAR group. The report would
review the adequacy of implementation measures and report on the perceptions of the
affected persons. It would also identify critical issues in implementation and make
recommendations to improve overall effectiveness of the resettlement program. The report
would also report progress of follow-up in initiated by YEPO/LAR group and the borrower
implementing agencies on the recommendations of the previous monitoring reports.



-124 -                      ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Yunnan Province is located in the southwest of China and is bordered to the north
by Sichuan Province, to the east by Guizhou and Guangxi Provinces and to the south and
west by Viet Nam, Lao PDR and Myanmar. The province has a total land area of
394,000 km2 and a population of 38 million, which is largely rural, some 81 percent being
involved in agriculture. The provincial capital and major industrial center, Kunming, is
by far the largest city (population 1.2 million) and dominates the economy of the
province. The next largest cities, also significant industrial centers, are Qujing and Gejiu,
with populations of 161,500 and 134,000, respectively.
2.    The northwest of the province is dominated by the southeastern Himalayas and
includes the sources of three major rivers, the Jingshajiang (which discharges to the
Changjiang (Yangtze), the Lancangjiang (Mekong) and the Nujiang (Salween). The
northeast area includes the source of the Nanpanjiang (Pearl River). The south of the
province is tropical and the central and eastern areas comprise a plateau and fertile lake
basins at an elevation of about 2,000 m.
3.    Rapid economic growth over the past 15 years has resulted in severe
environmental degradation in and around urban centers and even in some rural areas. The
environment in many areas in the province is under severe stress. The principal cause of
degradation of the water environment in urban areas is the lack of effective control of
polluting discharges to watercourses. The situation is exacerbated by the substantial
underpricing of water and environmental services such as wastewater disposal, which
leads to wasteful consumption and hence pressure on water resources.
4.    This is particularly the case in the Dianchi Lake basin, which includes Kunming,
where water resources are particularly limited and are threatened in terns both of water
quality and quantity. The Dianchi Lake receives discharges of municipal and industrial
wastewater from Kunming and its suburbs. However, the water resources of the Dianchi
Lake basin are very limited, per capita runoff being of the order of 5 percent of the
Yunnan and 3 percent of the world averages. As a consequence of the inadequate water
resources for Kunming, the lake provides up to 50 percent of the City's water supplies
even in an average year. Further increases in demand will result in even more reliance on
the lake for supplies of potable water.
5.    The repeated recycling of wastewater, consequent upon the use of the lake as a
major contribution to the Kunming water supply, has resulted in substantial increases in
the loads of nutrients, principally nitrogen and phosphorus, discharged to the lake. The
situation is exacerbated by the presence of a number of nitrogen and phosphorus-based



-125 -                      ANNEX7
fertilizer plants in the basin, exploiting the local phosphate-based mineral resources. The
lake receives discharges of nutrient-rich wastewater from these plants and also runoff
from agricultural areas in its catchment. As a result of the high nutrient loads, the
Dianchi Lake is already in an advanced state of eutrophication, having reached a
hypertrophic state. This has caused serious deterioration in water quality, which is
manifested in part in major problems in water treatment in Kunming, resulting in intake
closure and the introduction of more extensive water treatment processes.
6.    Growth in the other urban centers of Yunnan, principally Qujing and Gejiu,
coupled with inadequate control of polluting discharges, is causing similar problems of
water quality and pressure on limited water resources. A major environmental master
plan study for the Dianchi Basin, Qujing and Gejiu, funded by the UK Overseas
Development Administration (ODA) was completed in 1996. This study has identified a
set of major priority investments aimed at rehabilitation of water quality, principally in
Dianchi Lake, and improving the effectiveness of water resource utilization and wastes
management.
7.    In order to address the above concerns the proposed project would focus on
improving the state of the environment, principally in terms of water quality, via a range
of investments with the objectives of:
(a)   improving water quality, mainly in Dianchi Lake, and water resources
management to allow sustained safe beneficial use for public water supply;
(b)   improving standards of municipal wastes management;
(c)   institution of measures to strengthen control of industrial pollution and to
improve water and materials utilization;
(d)   enhancing facilities for the effective monitoring of environmental quality
in Yunnan; and
(e)   strengthening of policies and institutional arrangements for water quality
management, water and wastewater facilities operations, environmental
regulation and management training.
8.    Technical support and training would be provided to utility and environment
sector agencies in Yunnan at provincial and municipal levels, including environmental
protection bureaus (EPBs) and monitoring centers, municipal utility operations and
finance departments.
Administrative and Institutional Framework
9.    The State Environmental Protection Committee (SEPC) is the highest level of
authority on environmental policy and includes the State Council and heads of all
relevant ministries and agencies. The national Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA)



-126 -                     ANNEX7
functions as the secretariat of SEPC and is responsible for all aspects of environmental
policy although shares authority with other agencies for certain natural resources. NEPA
sets overall policies and regulations governing the provincial and municipal EPBs and
implementation of environmental policy is through the municipal and provincial EPBs,
who are responsible for the maintenance of enviromnental quality.
10.   Specific responsibility for water resources in Yunnan lies with the Yunnan Water
Conservancy Bureau, and with the Kunming Water Conservancy Bureau for the resources
of the Dianchi Lake basin. Maintenance of water quality is the responsibility of the
Yunnan EPB and that in the Dianchi Lake basin of the Kunming and other municipal
EPBs. These bureaus monitor environmental quality, set environmental and discharge
standards, assess and levy pollution charges and prosecute serious polluters.
Project Description
11.   The proposed project comprises a total of five core components as follows:
(a)   Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery.  Investments would
support the Dianchi Environmental Action Plan (DEAP), and would
include control of point and nonpoint pollution in the Dianchi Lake Basin
through improved catchment management, wastewater and stormwater
collection, treatment and disposal; improved collection, transport and
disposal of municipal solid waste and nightsoil; remediation of polluting
practices causing lake eutrophication; measures to strengthen Dianchi
Lake basin management and safeguard the long term quality of water
resources; and improvements to basin water resource allocation, to ensure
that the highest quality water is used for the most quality-sensitive uses,
such as for potable supply. The latter would be supported through
investments in upgraded trunk and distribution water mains, water
treatment, and associated actions and facilities to protect and increase the
water supply in Kunming;                        $199.6 million
(b)   Industrial Pollution Control. Direct investment financial support would
be provided to abate industrial pollution from enterprises identified in the
DEAP as most threatening to Dianchi Lake basin resources. Enterprises
have been ranked according to environmental impact, using rankings to be
confirmed during appraisal. The cleanup would focus on two fertilizer
plants, found to be the top-ranked industrial polluters in terms of
phosphorus load to Dianchi Lake. Support to abate pollution from lower-
ranked enterprises requiring smaller investments would be through an
Environmental Pollution Control Fund Subloans (EPCSL) Facility;
$34.1 million
(c)   Provincial Urban Environmental Services. Investments in catchment
management, wastewater and stormwater collection and treatment systems
for the protection of Gejiu Lake and Qujing's Nanpanjiang River; selective



-127 -                     ANNEX7
investments in water supply system extensions in Qujing; and improved
collection, transport and disposal of municipal solid waste and nightsoil in
Qujing;                                          $48.6 million
(d)   Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring. Support for upgrading
and modernizing environmental management and water quality
information and monitoring systems.               $6.2 million
(e)   Institutional Development, Training and Construction Supervision.
Strengthening provincial, municipal, project, and financial management;
construction supervision services; training in utility operations; updating
of city environmental action plans and feasibility studies; and future
project preparation.                             $19.1 million
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                    $307.6 million
12.   The financial, urban environment service delivery and utility management policy
initiatives would concentrate on (a) operational efficiency improvements; (b) resource
mobilization and cost recovery measures; (c) long term financial and economic
sustainability underpinning; and (d) industrial pollution reduction through focused time-
bound Action Plans with respect to pollution from paper, steel and pesticides. The
institutional development and policy strengthening component [para. 3.2(e)] would
enhance policies and operational experience in environmental protection and water,
wastewater, municipal solid waste and nightsoil management. Support to these initiatives
has been grouped into a number of main composite packages for the various executing
agencies, covering institutional development, financial management improvement,
construction supervision and training. The component would also support provincial and
sector city agencies, master planning, future project preparation, and other programs of
assistance to be defined.
Baseline Data
13.   General. Yunnan is the third poorest province in China. The economy of
Yunnan is dominated by primary production, principally agriculture, with manufacturing
accounting for a relatively small proportion of output. Kunming is a substantial industrial
center, dominating the provincial economy. There is evidence of a shift toward tertiary
sector activities in recent years.
14.   An important feature of industry in both Yunnan and Kunming is the dominance
of state-owned enterprises, principally at provincial and municipal level. These account
for about 75 percent of gross output, compared with a corresponding figure of 43 percent
for China as a whole. This is an important factor in environmental terms, because many
are loss-making, in some cases, such as fertilizer production, as a consequence of Central
Government controls on output prices. As a result many appear to be unable to fund
pollution control measures.



-128 -                     ANNEX7
15.   Qujing is the second largest city in Yunnan, with a population of 161,500, and is
located some 156 km to the northeast of Kunming. Industry has expanded rapidly in
recent years and Qujing is one of the six cities in Yunnan designated for high short-term
economic and population growth (the population is expected to more than double by
2010). Industrial activity is based on cigarette production, nonferrous metallurgy,
chemicals and automobile manufacture. Qujing is well located on the road and rail
networks for ready access both to Kunming and to other provinces.
16.   Gejiu is located to the south of Kunming in a mountainous area in the
southernmost part of Yunnan. The city has grown largely around the development of the
tin mining and processing industries. The population of Gejiu city is currently 134,000,
with a further 80,000 in four satellite towns that house most of the major industries.
17.   Climate. Yunnan has a northern subtropical monsoon climate, with extremes of
temperature moderated by altitude and latitude. Precipitation is plentiful (ranging
between 800 and 1,000 mm/year) and the province as a whole is relatively water rich,
with per capita runoff approaching 2.5 times the national average. The average annual
temperature in the Dianchi Lake basin is 14.70. There is a pronounced wet season, from
May to September, during which more than 70 percent of the rainfall occurs. However,
regional differences in the balance between rainfall and evaporation and substantial
temporal variability in rainfall result in areas with very limited water resources. The
Dianchi Lake basin is one such area. Evaporation from land surfaces in the basin is high,
in the order of 2,000 mm. The principal wind direction is southwest, with mean wind
speeds in the range 2.2 to 3 m/sec.
18.   Water Resources. The water resources of the Dianchi Lake basin are severely
limited, with per capita runoff only 3 percent of the world and 5 percent of national mean
levels. Renewable water resources are currently average 31 1 mi3 per capita, but as a result
of population growth this will fall in 2020 to 200 m3 on average and as low as 90 m3 in a
drought year. The latter figure would barely be sufficient to support domestic water
demand alone.
19.   At present water demands (agricultural, industrial and domestic) in the Dianchi
Lake basin exceed supply by between 177 Mm3/year and 578 Mm3/year in average and
dry (20 percentile) years respectively. This supply imbalance is corrected by recycling of
water, mainly the discharges of untreated wastewater from Kunming to the Dianchi Lake.
20.   As a result of the temporal variations in rainfall water, supply depends heavily
upon reservoir storage. The principal supply source for Kunming is the Songhuaba
Reservoir, which has the dual roles of water supply and flood protection. The mean
annual runoff and total storage volume of Songhuaba Reservoir are 198 Mm3 and
229 Mm3, respectively. However, because of flood control requirements (1 in 100-year
flood), the effective storage available for water supply is only 100 Mm3, which gives a
mean annual yield of 130 Mm3 (350,000 m3/d) with an assurance rate of 95 percent. In



-129 -                      ANNEX7
practice the reservoir is operated at a level 1.5 m below the operating rule curve because
farmers have not received compensation payments for the loss of land involved.
21.   The reservoir currently supplies water for agricultural as well as municipal use. It
is proposed in future to substitute Dianchi Lake water for use in agriculture to conserve
the better quality Songhuaba water for potable supply.
22.   The majority of the water demand in Kunming is met by abstractions from
Dianchi Lake, amounting to 480,000 m3/d. The Dianchi Lake has an average depth of
approximately 4.5 m and the overall storage volume is 1,250 Mm3. However, the
effective storage is substantially less than this figure because of the flood control
requirements. The lake receives runoff from urban rivers in Kunming, which receive
overspill from Songhuaba Reservoir, but in the dry season are largely open sewers, and
from rivers traversing the agricultural areas to the east and south of the lake.
23.   Flood protection is achieved by the discharge of water from the lake via the sole
outlet at Haikou, at the southwest of the lake, to the Tanglangchuan river. The hydraulic
capacity of the Tanglangchuan is limited, and a further flood alleviation measure, the
Xiyuan Tunnel at the northeast of the lake, has been constructed to increase the rate of
discharge of floodwater. In spite of these and other measures aimed at increasing the
effective storage in Dianchi Lake, the increased water demands are such that they can
only be met by ever increasing recycling of Kunming municipal wastewater.
24.   The principal watercourse in Qujing municipality is the Nanpanjiang, which
provides the majority of the water supply to Qujing via three reservoirs on its tributaries.
The remainder is obtained from groundwater. These resources are insufficient to meet
future demands, for which it will be necessary to import water from distant reservoirs.
25.   Gejiu derives water supplies from a combination of three reservoirs to the south of
the City and from groundwater and springs. Most of industry is supplied from Gejiu
Lake, an artificial lake constructed in 1955 with a volume of about 4 Mm3 largely for
flood protection. The lake has for many years received discharges of urban wastewater,
soil eroded from mining areas above the city and tailings from tin processing. As a result
there has been a substantial reduction in its effective volume and self-purification
capacity. Between 1961 and 1986 sediments were dredged from the lake, which
maintained a reasonable storage capacity.
26.   During the dry season, wastewater discharges to the lake constitute about two-
thirds of the available water supply. Water abstraction by industry in the dry season in
the order of 3 Mm3, and therefore this inflow of wastewater, or a suitable replacement, is
crucial to the water balance of the lake if abstractions are to continue.
27.   Water Quality. The Chinese water quality classification is based on five levels
of beneficial water use, as shown in Table 1.



- 130-                     ANNEX7
TABLE 1: CHINA: WATER QUALITY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM
Classification               Description of Water Use Function
I        National Nature Protection Area
II        Domestic Potable Water Source-Grade I protection area, precious
fish and fish culture zone
III       Domestic Potable Water Source-Grade II protection area, general
fish and bathing areas
IV        Industrial Water Use and Recreation
V         Agricultural and general amenity use
28.   Water quality in Songhuaba Reservoir is currently classified as Class II, but the
limited data available indicate increasing nutrient concentrations in the reservoir and
hence progressive eutrophication. Although the reservoir catchment was designated a
Water Protection Zone in 1981 but continuing lack of control has resulted in increasing
farming and rural township expansion in the area.
29.   The Dianchi Lake is divided into two parts, the Caohai (inner lake) and the much
larger Waihai (outer lake), which accounts for about 97 percent of the lake. The Caohai
and the Waihai are physically separated by a barrage completed in 1996. The municipal
and industrial wastewater from Kunming is discharged, mainly untreated into both the
Caohai and Waihai.
30.   There are currently only two operational sewage treatment works in Kunming,
treating a flow of 155,000 m3/d, which discharges ultimately to the Caohai. A further two
plants are under construction, with a total treatment capacity of 260,000 m3/d, of which
210,000 m3/d will be discharged to the Waihai. Treatment processes at all sewage
treatment works incorporate partial removal of both nitrogen and phosphorus.
31.   The Caohai is particularly polluted, with water quality failing to comply even with
Class V standards. In particular the concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus are high,
typically up to 7.5 and 0.9 mg/l respectively. Water quality in the Waihai has also
deteriorated in recent years, and nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations are again high,
averaging 1.5 and 0.14 mg/l respectively in 1995.
32.   Water is abstracted from the Waihai for treatment at two water treatment plants.
However, poor water quality in terms of algal growths resulting from the high nutrient
concentrations are causing severe treatment difficulties. In particular, one water intake
close to the boundary with the Caohai has been closed and additional treatment processes,
using ozone and activated carbon are proposed for the treatment works treating water
from the Waihai.



-131-                      ANNEX7
33.   Phosphorus has been identified as the growth-limiting nutrient and therefore the
principal focus of nutrient load reduction in wastewater treatment.  The potential
phosphorus loads to both the Caohai and Waihai are shown in Table 2.
TABLE 2: PHOSPHORUS LOADS TO DIANCHI LAKE (1995)
Source                                    Phosphorus Loads (t/year)
Caohai               Waihai
Kunming wastewater                       126                  210
Kunyang Fertilizer                                             57
Kunming Fertilizer                                             36
Other industry                            24                    11
Chenggong wastewater                                            6
Jinning wastewater                                              9
Total point source                    150                   329
Runoff                                    57                  108
Atmosphere                                 2                   55
Rural population                          1 5                  65
Total nonpoint source                  74                   228
TOTAL                                 224                   557
34.   Table 2 shows that the loads are in both cases dominated by point source
discharges of urban and industrial wastewater. Moreover, the data of loads from
nonpoint sources are based on very limited measurements and are considered to be
overestimates.
35.   Discharges to the Caohai have in the past entered the Waihai, and therefore the
load to the Waihai would have been greater than that indicated in Table 2. However, the
construction of the barrage and the Xiyuan tunnel has now allowed the diversion in dry
weather of water from the Caohai, principally urban wastewater, away from the Waihai to
the downstream Tanglangchuan river. In addition to the high nutrient levels in both the
Caohai and the Waihai there is concern also at discharges of organic matter from
municipal wastewater and toxins from industry.
36.   The Tanglangchuan river receives water discharged from the Waihai at Haikou
throughout the year, either for flood control purposes or to maintain a base flow in the dry
season. There is considerable exploitation of the Tanglangchuan for irrigated agriculture
and by industry. Water quality in the Tanglangchuan is poor as a result of discharges of
untreated industrial wastewater. Water is wastefully discharged from Dianchi Lake



-132 -                      ANNEX7
simply to provide dilution of this pollution to maintain even the present level of water
quality.
37.   Water quality in the Nanpanjiang upstream of Qujing and in the reservoirs serving
Qujing is generally good, typically meeting Class I standards. However, the Nanpanjiang
is seriously polluted by discharges of municipal wastewater from Qujing and of industrial
wastewater, including discharges from two fertilizer plants and a paper mill. As a result
water quality has declined to Class V, principally in terms of high chemical oxygen
demand (COD) and ammonia concentrations. The stated objective is to improve water
quality to Class IV by 2000 and to Class III by 2010.
38.   Gejiu Lake has been seriously polluted by the large discharges of municipal and
industrial wastewater, with water quality failing to meet even Class V standards. Even
during cooler months quiescent areas appear black and septic. Sediments are highly
contaminated with metals (arsenic, lead and cadmium) discharged from tin mining and
related activities, although there have been dramatic reductions in toxic metal discharges
over the past 20 years. The objective for Gejiu Lake is to improve water quality to
Class IV, sufficient to support industrial water use and recreation.
39.   The principal cause of the deteriorating water quality in all cases is the virtual
absence of effective wastewater treatment, particularly in the case of industry. The
primary instrument in China for control of industrial pollution is the effluent fee system,
but the fees charged are considerably below levels necessary to have the required
incentive effect in terms of wastewater treatment. Moreover, there is only partial
collection of fees, particularly in Kunming, where the collection rate is only of the order
of 20 percent.
40.   Terrestrial and Aquatic Ecology. Approximately 22 percent of the Dianchi
Lake basin is occupied by cropped land and about 37 percent by forests. The forests
consist principally of subtropical evergreen broad-leafed species but also include areas of
deciduous broad leafed forest, temperate pine forest, shrub grassland, bamboo forest and
grassland. Eucalyptus globulus has been introduced as a plantation species and occurs
throughout the basin.
41.   There has been considerable degradation of the forest as a result of use of wood as
a fuel and of problems of forest management control and land allocation. Nevertheless
the proportion of the basin area accounted for by forest cover remains the same as that in
1975.
42.   Fish species diversity in Dianchi Lake declined between the late 1950s and 1985
from 53 to 27 as a result of protective dike construction and land reclamation. These
activities destroyed the shallow water areas where fish would normally breed and have
nursery grounds. Of the surviving 32 species, only 6 are now of commercial importance,
but the total annual yield has declined much less dramatically than species numbers.
Dianchi Lake remains the largest fish producer in Yunnan.



-133 -                       ANNEX 7
43.   The dike construction and land reclamation activities have contributed to the
degradation of the Dianchi Lake in respect of widespread destruction of its littoral zone
and of aquatic macrophytes. In addition deforestation contributed to the phosphorus
loading to the lake as a result of soil erosion, which has also reduced the lake volume.
The problems of the Dianchi Lake therefore derive both from the increase in the loads of
phosphorus to the lake and from the reduction in its ability to assimilate phosphorus as a
result of the disruption of its natural ecology.
44.   Waste Management. Overall responsibility for the collection and disposal of
municipal and commercial wastes and street sweepings rests with the City Appearance
Committees, under the leadership and guidance of the Municipal Environmental
Sanitation Sections. Collection of solid wastes is generally effective, although in some
areas unsightly large quantities of waste line roadsides and river banks, where it is left to
decompose for subsequent use as compost.
45.   Disposal of solid wastes has traditionally been to land, principally to numerous
large and small open dumps, and not using acceptable standards of sanitary landfill. Two
major sites serving Kunming have received more than 2 million tons over the past
10 years. The open dumps are unhygienic and unsatisfactory and are not registered or
monitored. Since the dumps are neither lined nor covered, there are potential problems of
leachate and windblown pollution. There is also particular concern over the uncontrolled
disposal of toxic wastes.
46.   Quantities of municipal solid waste on a per capita basis are declining in mass
terms as a result of the change from coal to gas as a fuel. As a result the organic content
is higher. There are informal recycling activities, but the proportion of waste recycled is
unknown. The decline in the use of nightsoil by farmers in favor of chemical fertilizers
has resulted in the disposal of increasing quantities of nightsoil with the solid waste
streain.
Consideration of Alternatives
47.   In most cases the approaches adopted for the various project components
represent the only realistic option in terms of resource availability or achievement of the
required environmental objective. Where multiple options were available, the least-cost
solution achieving the required objective was selected.
48.   In the case of rehabilitation of the Dianchi Lake with respect to its trophic state, it
would not be possible within a realistic timeframe to enhance sufficiently the ability of
the lake to assimilate phosphorus. The only realistic approach to improving water quality
in the immediate term is therefore to reduce the phosphorus loads discharged to the lake.
49.   The proposed Kunming wastewater treatment works processes are based on
biological treatment incorporating nitrogen and phosphorus removal in addition to
achieving a high degree of removal of organic matter. The alternative of a totally
chemically based treatment system would not readily be able to achieve all the required



-134-                      ANNEX7
discharge standards, particularly in respect of removal of nitrogen and organic matter.
Further removal of nutrients from the Waihai by diversion of treated wastewater to the
Caohai and thence via the Xiyuan tunnel was rejected in view of water resource
limitations on the Waihai. Reducing the phosphorus loads in domestic wastewater by
enforcing the use of phosphate-free detergents would not of itself reduce loads by a
sufficient degree to obviate the need for phosphorus removal in wastewater treatment.
Since phosphorus removal in treatment is not directly dependent upon concentration in
the raw wastewater, a ban on phosphate in detergents would not be appropriate.
50.   Sanitary landfill was preferred to other waste disposal options in all cases.
Incineration would not be appropriate in view of the low heat value of the wastes,
resulting from either a high inert ash content, arising from domestic use of coal as a fuel,
or from a high moisture content. Composting was rejected in view of concerns over
adequacy and stability of product market outlets. Moreover, landfill would be required in
any event for reject materials from other options.
Environmental Benefits
51.   The balance of the project is substantially positive, and there are considerable
environmental benefits for the Dianchi Lake basin and for the cities of Qujing and Gejiu.
These benefits are discussed in detail below.
52.   Dianchi Lake Basin. The primary focus of the sewage treatment works and
industrial pollution control projects is the reduction of the point source loads of nutrients,
principally phosphorus, to the Dianchi Lake, particularly the Waihai. The proposed
municipal sewage treatment works, Nos. 4b and 5 and extension to No. 1, are designed to
achieve the National Integrated Discharge Standard, in particular a phosphorus
concentration in the treated wastewater of not more than 1 mg/l. On this basis they will
achieve reductions in phosphorus loads of between 60 and 80 percent, depending upon
initial phosphorus concentrations which are a function of the relative contribution of
industrial wastewater. Removal of organic matter from wastewater will be in the order of
90 percent.
53.  In addition the associated sewerage systems will collect urban wastewater that
currently discharges to the rivers that traverse Kunming. As a result there will be a
substantial improvement in water quality in these rivers.
54.   The water supply and treatment components will not of themselves have a direct
benefit on water quality in Dianchi Lake. They will, however, permit a more optimal use
of the water resources in the basin in that they will increase the use of the higher quality
water from Songhuaba Reservoir for domestic potable supply.
55.   The pollution control proposals for the two fertilizer factories, Kunyang
Phosphorus Fertilizer and Kunming Chemical Fertilizer, are based on a combination of
process upgrading, water conservation and wastewater treatment. The phosphorus load



-135 -                      ANNEX7
from the former factory will be reduced by 54.5 t/year (98 percent) and from the latter by
35 t/year (97 percent).
56.   Wastewater treatment for the rural townships of Chenggong and Jinning would
also be based on biological treatment including removal of nitrogen and phosphorus. The
treatment proposed will reduce the phosphorus loads to the Waihai from these sources by
in the order of 75 percent.
57.   The overall benefit of the wastewater treatment components in terms of reductions
in phosphorus loads to the Waihai is shown in Table 3. The loads referred to in the table
relate to conditions obtaining in the year 2010, the time horizon of the designs for all
project components.
58.   It will be seen from Table 3 that the prospective phosphorus loads that would be
generated in 2010 represent a very substantial increase, some 40 percent over the 1995
case. The increase is principally as a result of population growth and increased living
standards, including the progressive abandonment of the nightsoil system.
59.   The existing and proposed interventions (principally wastewater treatment plants
Nos. 2 and 4a, the former constructed with assistance from bilateral funding) could
potentially achieve a significant reduction in phosphorus load.  However, their
effectiveness is to some degree reduced by deficiencies in sewerage systems and therefore
degree of collection of wastewater for treatment. The values in Table 3 for the 2010 case
with the existing and proposed interventions assumes that, until the sewerage system
improvements are implemented, the treatment works will continue to treat polluted water
drawn from the adjacent rivers. These rivers are in any event open sewers in the dry
season, and it has been assumed that 25 percent of the annual phosphorus load of the
sewage drawn from the rivers will escape in storm water during the wet season.
60.   The wastewater treatment plant designs are based on achieving a residual
phosphorus concentration of not more than 1 mg/l, and therefore the average
concentration would be significantly lower than I mg/l. Table 3 shows the estimates of
the phosphorus loads discharged which based on a residual concentration in the treated
wastewater of 0.5 mg/l, which relates more closely to the likely average concentration.
61.   Implementation of the wastewater collection and treatment components of the
project, together with the pollution control proposals for the two fertilizer plants, reduce
the 2010 total phosphorus load by about 50 percent, to a level some 33 percent below the
1995 level. Moreover, it is considered that this simple evaluation based on total
phosphorus understates the potential effectiveness of the proposals.  Much of the
phosphorus associated with the nonpoint sources is in the form of insoluble particulates
and therefore not readily available for algal consumption. It has conservatively been
estimated that 70 percent of the phosphorus from nonpoint sources is insoluble. When
this factor is taken into account, the potential load reduction achieved by the project is
estimated to be 46 percent relative to the 1995 level.



-136 -                            ANNEX7
TABLE 3: POLLUTION LOAD
Phosphorus Loads In Tons/Year
2010 Predicted    2010 + Proposed    2010 + YEP
Source                           1995    Load       %          Projects       Load      %
WAIHAI
Kunming Wastewater
STW No 2                         75      176       23            93           47        13
STW No 4a                        71      101       13            56           21         6
STW No 4b                                 67        9            67            14       4
STW No 5                                  46        6           46             9        2
Unconnected                      64       36        5            36           36        10
Total                          210      426      55           298           127       34
Kunyang Phosphorus Fertilizer      57      57        7            57             1        0
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer        36      36        5            36             1        0
Other Industry                     11      11        I            11            11        3
Chenggong/Jinning                  15      22        3            22            5         1
Total Point Source Load        329     552       71           424           145       39
Relative To 1995 (%)         100      168                   129            44
Runoff                            108     108       14           108          108       29
Atmosphere                         55      55        7            55           55        15
Rural Population                  65       65        8            65           65        17
Total Nonpoint Source Load    228      228       29           228          228        61
Total Phosphorus Load          557     780      100           652          373       100
Relative To 1995 (%)         100      140                   117            67
Available Phosphorus Load        365      565       72          450           199       53
Relative To 1995 (%)            100      155                    123           55
CAOHAI
Kunming Wastewater
STWNo 1                          12       62       17           62            14        8
STW No 3                         71      183       50           96            40       23
Unconnected                      43       23        6           23            23       13
Total                          126     268       73           181           77        44
Industry                          24       24        7           24            24       14
Total Point Source Load        150     292       80           205          101        58
Relative To 1995 (/O)       100      195                   137            67
Runoff                            57       57       16            57           57       33
Atmosphere                          2       2        1             2            2         1
Rural Population                   15      15        4            15           15        9
Total Nonpoint Source Load     74       74       20           74            74       42
Total Phosphorus Load          224     366      100           279          175       100
Relative To 1995 (%)          100     163                    125           78
Available Phosphorus Load         157     285       78          207           113       65
Relative To 1995 (%)             100      181                    131           72
Dianchi Lake
Total Phosphorus Load          781    1,146     100           931          548      100
Relative To 1995 (%)         100      147                   119            70



-137 -                      ANNEX 7
62.   The corresponding reductions to the Caohai are shown also in Table 3, and a
similar situation obtains in respect of the need for sewerage system enhancement to
ensure that the proposed wastewater treatment plants, Nos. 1 and 3, can be effective in
reducing phosphorus loads. Again the implementation of the project proposals is
estimated to reduce the load of phosphorus to the Caohai to significantly below the 1995
case.
63.   In view of these substantial reductions in phosphorus load it would be expected
that there would be a significant reduction in phosphorus concentrations in the Waihai,
and therefore a corresponding reduction in the water treatment problems relative to those
currently experienced. In practice the degree and rate of recovery will to a certain extent
be limited by the reduced ability of the Waihai to assimilate phosphorus as a consequence
of the disruption of the natural ecology. The relationship between phosphorus loads to
the Waihai and the concentration of phosphorus on an annual average basis has been
evaluated using a mathematical model that simulates the effect of various processes
occurring in the lake (e.g., sedimentation, uptake by fish). The calculated phosphorus
concentrations for the period 1995 to 2015 resulting from the implementation of YEP and
for the Do Nothing More cases, based on implementation only of the wastewater
treatment interventions already planned are shown in Figure 1.
64.   It is apparent from Figure 1 that implementation of YEP will sustain phosphorus
concentrations in the Waihai at, or around, present levels and will therefore allow
continued use for water supply, albeit with extensive treatment such as ozone and
activated carbon. Failure to implement YEP will result in increases in phosphorus
concentrations to levels where even advanced treatment would become extremely
problematic and it would be necessary to substitute Dianchi Lake by water imported from
distant catchments. Figure I also shows that, even if it were possible to prevent all
discharges of phosphorus, of whatever source, to the Waihai, it would be in the order of
10 years before phosphorus concentrations returned to historic low levels.
65.   The two sanitary landfill sites proposed for Kunming will provide capacity for the
environmentally acceptable disposal of solid wastes from Kunming for approximately
20 years, and thereby reduce the potential impact on groundwater and surface waters
from  the present uncontrolled tipping of waste.  There will be corresponding
improvements in the efficiency of collection and transport, which will reduce the
environmental degradation and visual pollution arising from unauthorized dumping of
waste in urban areas.
Qujing
66.   The water supply component for Qujing will alleviate raw water shortages,
particularly in dry years when as low as only 60 percent of urban demand has been met.
The wastewater treatment plant, with a capacity of 100,000 m3/d, provides only partial
treatment in the immediate term, based on chemically assisted primary sedimentation. It



-138-                      ANNEX7
will nevertheless remove a substantial pollution load, but the longer-tern water quality
objectives for the Nanpanjiang will require also control of industrial wastewater.
Figure 1: PREDICTED EFFECT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF YEP ON TOTAL PHOSPHORUS
LEVELS IN LAKE DIANCHI (based on assumed no increase in nonpoint sources
with time and 50%/0 effective removal of TP in runoff from nonpoint sources)
05 r
Worst Case
DANGER ZONVE FOR       Do Nothing More
0.4          WA TER TREA TiENT
0  x        -    -  -    -    - - -  -  -  -  -  -_          
_  INCRE4ISI.VG                          YEP
0.2           DIFFICULTIES WITH!
WATER TREA TMfENT
Zero TP
0.1-
{ i from 1996
*    .    .  .    .   .   . .  .  .~  .1 .       ..
(I  -
1920 1930  1940  1950  1960 1970 1980  1990 2000 2010 2020
't ear
67.   The wastes management proposals will provide environmentally sound landfill
disposal facilities for wastes from Qujing, replacing the existing largely uncontrolled
dump sites which are known to be polluting groundwater. The waste collection
improvements, including transfer stations, will improve collection efficiency and reduce
the degree of flytipping.
Gejiu
68.   The wastewater and flood protection proposals for Gejiu, in addition to improving
discharges of water from Gejiu lake, will collect wastewater currently discharged to the
lake and thereby reduce the pollution load that the lake receives. The wastewater
discharged to the Zhadian River will provide additional water for agricultural use.
Impacts and Mitigation
69.   Notwithstanding the very substantial positive balance of environmental impact of
the project, there are nevertheless some adverse impacts that require mitigation. These
impacts occur both in construction and operational phases of the project components.
The principal impacts and the proposed mitigation measures are described in detail
below; a summary of impacts and mitigations is given in Table 4.



-139-                                    ANNEX7
TABLE 4: SUMMARY OF ADVERSE IMPACTS AND PROPOSED MITIGATION MEASURES
Item                   Potential Impacts                        Mitigation Measures
Society               * Permanent loss of farmiand              * Altemative jobs for farmers
* Influx of migrant construction workers  * Contractors to employ local workers only
Residences            Resettlement of residents from STW and WTW  Implement RAP and local policies and regulations
sites                                    provide for:
* compensation;
* equal or better housing
Industrial/commercial   Economic losses                         Compensation, relocation as per national and local
buildings                                                       regulations
Farmland              . Temporary loss during the borrowing period  * Schedule project to avoid crop loss
* State regulations concerning compensation
. Loss of soil fertility and dumped construction * Clear land, replace original topsoil, apply fertilizer
debris                                   prior to hand-back to owner
. Damage to irrigation & drainage systems  a Temporary water channels, provide pumped water
supplies, repair damage
Highways and roads    Increased traffic congestion; damage to road    New temporary access road to sites; repair damaged
surface, mud and debris spilled on roads  roads, clean up on regular basis
Bridges               Affecting traffic                         Reroute site traffic or build temporary bridge
Rivers                Temporary disruption                      Diversions and warning signs for pedestrians and road
users
River channels         Flooding during STW inlet works construction  Embankment and pumping to minimize impacts
Lakes                 None                                      None
Effluent/soil from    Pollution of rivers and lakes             Restrict usage of affected waters by local population,
construction sites                                              protect rivers from discharge
Groundwater sources    Lowering water level of wells            Provide temporary standpipes, or water bowsers for
supply
Noise                  Disturbance during construction phase    . No construction at night within 200m from residential
areas
* Cover spoil heaps or spray to lay dust in dry weather
Dust                  Dust caused by excavations                * Cleaning vehicle wheel to reduec road mess
* Spoil transport not to be over loaded
e Spoil for road backfill to be covered with asphalt
Vegetation            Vegetation cover reduced; soil erosion potential Regreening with trees and grass as appropriate
increased
Electricity, gas, water,   Damage or disruption to overhead and  Contact related govemment departments for access to
sewage & communica-   underground lines and pipes               record drawings
tion lines
Cultural & historic sites  Disruption or destruction of site or antiquities   Stop construction and report findings to relevant
authorities
Burial sites          Removal or desecration                    * Adhere to local customs for relocation; prepare in
advance, apply RAP proposals
* Careful survey preconstruction
Structures outside    Collapse or damage to structures in vicinity due * Rebuilding damaged structures
demolition area       to construction                           * Repair of structures
* Prepare a spoil disposal plan
Spoil disposal        . Disposal of residual spoil              * Identify uses for spoil, i.e. road and building works,
block making
* Spoil not to be tipped on farm land or water courses
. Transport of residual spoil            * Transport by responsible local authorities
Sludge disposal       * Heavy metal impact on farmland          * Enforce industrial discharge to sewer standards;
monitor sludge composition for metals
Solid waste disposal  * Explosion by CH4 gas                    * Landfill ventilation or bum off
by landfill           * Contribution to greenhouse gas production    * Gas recovery and flaring/reuse
* Leachate from landfill sites           * Collection and treatment



-140-                                  ANNEX7
Item                 Potential Impacts                       Mitigation Measures
Sewer and water main   * Traffic disruption, road & footpath closure   * Adequate sign posting and temporary walkways
installation
* Loss of earnings by roadside shops and  . Local regulations concerning compensation; alleviate
businesses                             impacts by provision of alternate pathway or access
routes.
* Disruption of underground services, water,   . Reroute sewer, make contractor responsible for
electricity, telephone                 repairs and temporary altemative services
Health and safety    Death, injury and disease from construction    Adhere to local construction health and safety
(including blasting) and operation activities    regulations
Landfills            *  Leakage of leachate into groundwater    r Use a suitable liner (clay or synthetic), treat or
recirculate leachatc.
*  Odor                                .  Use groundwater monitoring wells
*  Windblown particulate               .  Provide daily soil cover
Keep landfill moist and use consolidated soils for
cover
Land Acquisition
70.     With the exception only of the pollution control projects for the fertilizer factories
all components require land acquisition on either a temporary or permanent basis. The
total permanent land acquisition requirement is 224 ha, with 163 ha in the Dianchi Lake
basin, 59.7 ha in Qujing and 1.8 ha in Gejiu respectively. The areas of land to be
acquired are dominated by the landfill site requirements, which account for 123 ha for
Kunming, of which 67 ha for one site has already been acquired, and 45.7 ha for Qujing.
Resettlement
71.     All project components affect local residents or enterprises and their employees.
The total number of persons affected is 2,966, but there will not be a need for any
residential resettlement. A total of four enterprises will be affected, three in the extension
of WTP No. I and one in the extension of STW No. 1. A detailed Resettlement Action
Plan has been prepared, and resettlement is described in detail in Annex 6.
Wastewater Treatment Impacts
72.     The principal impact associated with wastewater treatment is the generation of
substantial quantities  of treatment residues  (sludge, grit and  screenings).   At full
development of wastewater treatment facilities in Kunming the total quantity of sludge
requiring disposal would be in the order of 200 t/d in the form of dewatered sludge cake.
Even where the quality of sludge would be acceptable for use in agriculture, it is unlikely
that there would be sufficient demand for use in agriculture to reduce this quantity
significantly. The primary disposal route will therefore be by landfill at the new sites
serving Kunming. Disposal of sludge from the wastewater treatment facilities at Qujing
and Gejiu will be for agricultural use where possible or by landfill.
73.     The other main impacts of wastewater treatment are odor and noise, principally
from aeration equipment. Problems of odor are minimized in most cases by the absence
of primary treatment and hence the need to process primary sludge. Odor will be further



-141-                        ANNEX7
minimized by rapid disposal of sludge to avoid storage and by providing greenbelt buffer
zones around the periphery of the sites. Noise impact will be minimized by plant design
to maximize distances from any sensitive receivers, and where necessary by acoustic
insulation of buildings.
Waste Disposal Impacts
74.   The major impacts from  landfill disposal of municipal waste will be the
generation of leachate and of landfill gas. At all sites groundwater will be protected by
provision of synthetic site liners and by collection of leachate. It is proposed to store
leachate for recirculation through the landfill, thereby minimizing both the quantity for
disposal and its polluting character.
75.   The location of the sites, a substantial distance from  significant centers of
population, is beneficial in terms of reducing odor nuisance. However, it also means that
it is unlikely that beneficial use of landfill gas for energy recovery will be economic.
Landfill gas will therefore be flared for safety reasons and for conversion of methane, a
potent greenhouse gas, to the less potent carbon dioxide.
Spoil Disposal
76.   Considerable quantities of excavation spoil will be generated during the
construction of all water and wastewater treatment plants, water transmission and
sewerage systems. In particular there will be substantial amounts of tunneling spoil from
the DuMu aqueduct in Qujing and the tunnel in Gejiu. A detailed spoil disposal plan will
be prepared, incorporating wherever possible the beneficial use of spoil in construction
activities or landscaping.
Industry Impacts
77.   The production upgrading proposals at the two fertilizer plants include in one case
new facilities for production of sulfuric acid from  sulfur.  Tail gases from  these
production facilities contain sulfur dioxide and acid aerosols and are to be discharged to
the atmosphere via tall (at least 45 m) stacks.  In the individual environmental
assessments for the two plants it was shown by calculation that the discharges would not
result in unacceptable ground-level ambient concentrations of the pollutants.
Other Construction Impacts
78.   A number of other impacts will arise as a result of construction activities,
including disruption to traffic and municipal services, temporary loss of farmland, noise
and dust. In all cases impact will be minimized by adherence to defined operational
procedures, liaison with the appropriate authorities and appropriate compensation where
necessary. For example, noise impact will be minimized by restrictions on hours of
working and dust from excavation and spoil transport by means of water sprays and by
vehicle washing, covering and controls on loading.



-142 -                                   ANNEX8
ANNEX 8: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR   1996        1997      1998     1999  | 2000        2001  | 2002
PROJECT COMPONENT                   1 2 31411213 4 11213141 2 3 411 234112131411 2 3 4
DIANCHI BASIN MANAGEMENT
Kunming Sewage Treatment No.1, 4B & 5
Works (STW)
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure                                            I
Construction
Kunming Sewerage Rehab.;And Extensions ........................ .... ... .. ....                  .... ... ... ...
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
Ch      e nggong    Sewerage  and STW.................... . ... ....                              ... ... .. ... ...
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
Jinning........  Seerg ...............   ..............     ... -.    .... ....  ..   ...  X ...    ....  .... ...     .... ..... ....  ...  ... ...     ...    ...
Jinning Sewerage and STW
Design and Documentation_
Tender Procedure
Construction          . . .                                       . .  . _  . ...
Rural  Sanitation ...................................................
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
Kunming Water Suppily ...                   ... ... ... .... t 1 t t  .. _                           .. . . . .
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
.... .............................. . ............... ........... ... ...... ......*- __________ ... .. ...  ...  ...
Kunming Municipal Solid Waste
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
QUJING
Qujing Wastewater Management
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
Qujng ate Supy. ................ ....  ....                                                          _            l7...     .......
Quing Water Supply
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
Qujing Municipal Solid Waste..........    ... ... ...                                   .... t  ... ............. . . .
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
GEJIU
Gejiu Sewerage and Sewage Treatment
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction



-143 -                             ANNEX8
YEAR  1996    1997 | 1998 | 1999 | 2000    2001    2002
PROJECT COMPONENT                      1312131 2341112131412 3        4 1    2 3 4 1234
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND              ____     TT _____T   _11
TRAINING
ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
Design and Documentation                      I
Tender Procedure
Execution
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL                      I I I
Design and Documentontat
Approval and Tender Procedure
Construction
POLLUTION CONTROL SUBLOANS



-144 -                             ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: PROPOSED MONITORING INDICATORS
1.     The effectiveness of project implementation in ter-ms of solving the environmental
problems of Yunnan Province at which the project is targeted, will be measured by
reference to a number of monitoring indicators. The specific project objectives and the
associated monitoring indicators are listed below.
Objective                                 Monitoring Indicator
Objective A
. Water Supply                            * Demand versus supply;
* Quality of sources;
* Utilization of sources;
* Quality of supply.
* Wastewater and Solid Waste              * System Utilization:
Management                                * Increase in customer base;
. Increase in number of system connections;
* lncrease in wastewater flow and pollution load.
Objective B
* Urban Pollution Impact Reduction        * Effectiveness of Control:
& Control                                 * Increase in number of discharges licensed;
. Decrease in number of violations of license conditions
* Water Quality:
* Water quality class improvement in rivers, lakes and other
waterways;
i Solid Waste Management:
* Collection rates;
. Unit costs.
Objective C
. Promote complementary enviromnental     * Net increase in overall environmental management
investments                               expenditures;
* Percent from different sources.
Objective D
. Improved Operational and                * Financial parameters;
Financial Performance                   * Operational efficiency gains aver time.
* Institutional Development, Project      . Physical delivery;
Management and Training                 * Achievement of Action Plans;
* Assessment ofjob skills;
* Attitude and work performance.
* Pollution levy collection rates
2.      Establishment of Baseline Conditions. Each indicator will require a baseline level
against which the effectiveness of the project in achieving the design objectives can be
measured. The base data should be July 1, 1996, and YEPO would take the following
action to obtain the necessary baseline data and develop the necessary methodologies for
monitoring. The parameters, baseline and targeted values shown below are appraisal



-145 -                                             ANNEX9
mission estimates; the baseline data/methodologies would be reviewed and updated at the
Project Launch Workshop.
Base
Objective                   Indicator                        Unit          CY96       CY97       CY9"       CY99        cYvo       CYO
Objective A
Water Supply                Quality & quantity                %              80         80         90         90         95          95
Wastewater Management       Interception ratio                %             20          20         40         80         95          95
Connection ratio                  %             30         40         55         70          80         95
Consumer Survey                   %             40         40         50         60          60         70
Objective B
Lake Water Quality          Lake Dianchi improvement         Class           NV        IV          IV         m           ml         m
Aquatic life quality       Index base to be
established
Phosphorus                      mgAi           0.28       0.28       0.28       0.25        0.24       0.20
Objective C
Complementary investments   Achievement of DEAP          % completion        0          25         40         60         65          70
Objective D
Operational performance     Financial indicators        compliance (%)       -          70         80         90         100        100
Operational efficiency       No staff per        -          -          -          -          -           -
1,000 customers     5.0        5.0        4.8        4.6        4.5         4.4
Phosphorus removal          % phosphorus removal at           %              0          10         20         30         60          60
all STWs
Institutional development   Achievement of action             %              0          30         60         90         95         100
plans



-146-                              ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: PROPOSED SUPERVISION PLAN
(Proposed Bank/IDA Supervision Input)
Proposed                                                   Expected Skill          Staff input
Date                    Activities                        Requirement           (Staff-weeks)
09/96  Project Launch Workshop                    Economist, Financial Analyst,     10
Review institutional development and tariff    Engineer, Procurement &
implementation, retroactive financing work,    Resettlement Specialists
project organization, procurement, financial
management and reporting requirements.
01/97  Supervision Mission                        Engineer, Financial Analyst,       8
Review institutional development, financial    Industrial Specialist, Mechanical
management, procurement, physical works.    Engineer, Solid Waste Specialist
09/97  Supervision Mission                       Engineer, Mechanical Engineer,      9
Review institutional development, utility  Financial Analyst
finances (including tariff implementation), con-
struction management, procurement, industrial
pollution control performance.
01/98  Supervision Mission                       Engineer, Financial Analyst,       10
Review institutional development, tariff imple-  Solid Waste Specialist
mentation, progress in construction, solid waste.
09/98  Supervision Mission                       Engineer, Financial Analyst,        8
Same as 09/97 above.                      Mechanical Engineer
06/99  Supervision Mission                       Engineer, Financial Analyst,       10
Mid-term review of institutional development,  Mechanical Engineer, Econo-
utility finances (including tariff implementa-    mist, Industry Specialist
tion), financial management, construction &
construction management, procurement, indus-
trial pollution control.
2000-  At least one supervision/mission year and last   To be determined depending on  5 SW per
2002   mission should discuss with borrower prepara-  progress.                mission
tion of ICR.
Specialists in sanitary and mechanical engineering, procurement, resettlement, solid waste would be provided
by Headquarters staff, if available, otherwise by consultants. Other staff inputs would be from Headquarters.



-147 -                                     ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: YUNNAN PROVINCIAL AND MUNICIPAL
ORGANIZATIONS
FIGUlRE 1: YUNNAN PROVINCE - BASIC GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION
| MAJOR    ||PEETR 
|MUNICIPALITY                                   PREFCTUR
COUNTY          ~~~~~DISTRICT           COUNTY               MUNICIPALITY
FIGURE 2: ORGANIZATION OF ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION IN CHINA
State CoinciDieclRpotig 
| Belimg, Shanghr, |   |  GovemmentB &                                w          |   Mnistries, 
&Ttuio al           rinina                                      NEP*inital           State Comm ssions .
Goven Iments Goovemments,,i --.
|   PrIecturali   Rprn
| Municipal Peopie's |_
L Mnicipttl People's      |Cotunty People's|
Towvnship People'sLgn
Govenvnent                                                      Lgn
l                      ~~~~~~~~~Direct Reporting
Indirect Reporting



-148 -                                              ANNEX 11
FIGURE 3: ORGANIZATION OF YUNNAN PROVINCIAL
GOVERNMENT AND PROJECT OFFICES
Provincial
People's Govemment
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ub
Finance  Pnce     ~Planning      Cnsrcin        Rfom          Poeto
Bureau      Bureau        Office              e      C     e         B
Z B m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Note
The Project Offices shown in the dotted boxes
report directly to their respective People's
Li.  -         (G6PO) t: tGovemments
FIGURE 4: ORGANIZATION OF KtlNMING MUNICIPALITY
t  Kunming Wunicipal
| Peo,ole's Government |
Sitnupmingw rp        Drainage
S ce            Price    Ranning                   p .Company  Company
Note
This Municipality is responsible for ee
Environmental Protction of Lake Dianchi



-149-                                                      ANNEX 11
FIGURE 5: ORGANIZATION OF KUNMING DRAINAGE COMPANY
|  Direrctor     |
|   (1)  
|DrapLty D rector                                                    l1                                                      DepLty Direcor |
F YEP &                 F nae         Human nR*no.Ia         ConabtRon          Pocurerment/
- f l4         Deprtment        Development            Divsion            Planning
_   -  5 1X--  1  (3)                (40))               (10)
River           Drainage          Sewer           SReare tanau e                                 Enginaenng      Plant C'M       Sewage Quality
Mantenance         Inspectos       Mwagenent          Cotcon                     Administrat,on    ||
C           Denotes four self-managed units
FX T
Staff Complement   u                                                E&WSaW tuaW#3                              SW#4
Man Company              84                               Under d              Under                Uncer
Fow Independent Unts  418                              COns5r5on            Construeon           ConsVu5on
FIGlRE 6: ORGANIZATION OF KUNMING WATER SUPPLY COMPANY
t  General Manager           N
Managemnty    WefPere          Mfn Rer Manarge                                   |    Depuo n     g                                       Dsg Chef En n
|    (1)           1               (ewrerune)                                             s()Py)          ||(1)
|                       | | Djvision  |  | ~~~~~~~~SecnXwnes |||Divison  |||Sre                   no 
(300)   (212(7)     || (42)            C                C                 C                                                        Ite
I | Network h      Ellbrig                (178)              (                                                       (28)
t              | Manr~~~m gem  nt ||Depanment |                                  o1||No 2  ||N3||No4 ||No 5
|             |   ~~~~~~(1,5)          (86)                                1 (9             (88)  L1(8    1    6)1     14
Hostel          staff           t!Me           Machnery          F plprlne   , I  %AftWNo                                                 Engineenng
Manaemftnt~ ~   ~~ Wte Wrne Fatory          Repair      i Costrutnceon I    Constmiction                                              Des.gn
(300) _          (212)            (48)             (89)     I,   (178)                (58)                                                  In28tut



- 150-                                                     ANNEX 11
FIGURE 7: ORGANIZATION OF QIJING MiNICIPALITY
QuI Ijng                 I
Municipal People's
Govern ment
PrtEctinonmental  Ma| aement          Water              ann                       Construction        Patrs arid           Design            HoDUsing
|    t3ureau       MESS             Company             t)srsion                      C-sion             Garcen            Institut           Diision
FIGtURE 8: ORGANIZATION OF QtIJING WATER SUIPPLY AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
General
Manager
0()~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
prortution    |  ttiiiis |     |    inance               |New B3usiness |        |Se;urity    |              Housing   |         |Water Saving|
Management   Nia} & Stb             Dvision                   Offic e                 Office                   Office                 Offilce
Dson   t)        (-3)                     (19)                    t3)                     ~~       ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~(8)  (1)
Latzoatory      Team           Systems Team            Maintenance            Reading
Staff for 3
(120)
Total Staff Complement is 177



-151-                                                  ANNEX 11
FIGURE 9: ORGANIZATION OF GEJII MUIINICIPALUTY
Gejiu
Municipal People's
Government
Y I
Growp
Townshp p                                                           a Iraoncw Unmen
YP     Government          Ladlnig                         ydPoer         Fonnance,                           Pr,te 
|   Bureau                                         Comsson            Brea                             Beau B[re aureau
Sol Wse  |           aed            Planning/   |              onstruction         M.  Mncpal        amContning
Management         Drainage        Management                   Supervision      Engineenng          Design
MESS            Company           Dmvision                    Dmision          Compan             Institute
FIGUIRE 10: ORGANIZ,ATION OF t EJIII WATER S(IPPFI   AND DRAINAGE COMPANY
| DeputyDIreclor |                         | ChelEroneel [                    | ~~~~~~~~~Deputy Dredtor|
[ Water Supply  j                                   l       l       |                  |~~CietEngnee  Sewerage 
ter             Walter uat                    eter                             Techniral        Cenital                    age
Dvisio n        D.vision              M  ntenance                          Department       Laboratory             Department       hrjdO01
(5)             (4)                   (3)                (3)
Admnistration     Pro ducon        Finance          ,Billing
Divislon         Dvision        Division         Divsion
(12)            (32)              (3,            (3)
Reservoirs           ~~Treatment                          e
Reservoirs    ~ ~ ~     WoksMaintenance                                                           Mngmn
Shiman Can (4)                 Bao Hua (8)                      (3)
Niu Ba Huang (6)               LoXn  8
Yang JaSan (2)               Ba Han Dong (6)
Total Staff = 155                                  Inspectors     Maintenance        Finance        Department                    |      O&
(3)       1       (1)               (3)                             (2 1))1         (2



-152 -                                         ANNEX 11
FIGURE II: YUNNAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECI - FUNDS FLOWS
Yunnan Provincial Gvernment                                                  
Wor  Ban                                                                                   Govemmenl
n~~~~~~~xn
_   _   Fin  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Brea_Fn cu
.     _   _  Bul e su  ~-- - -  - -- - - ----  -                      u                  
s t   I   (Odier    |    Environmentel      I         p             Environmentel
Gover umen t  ~  -S    ~   sendol i dies) !    PrBueun   *   L L  | Commet _-   Protuectiaon 
=   s             ~~~~Kunmine Mimicinal Governmnent
Bure       au,                                                                          BureaI  u 0     e .
i     pmaite   | j         jDSs            Prroleclton   |I|Construtonl |I  |l                 |Prroedoni| 
Industrial Bank or
Financing Agency
KunmningWater  ||   |Kunming Drainage |GejzuWater &
L  Company    ll   l     Company                                                            Drainage Company
-    w9cV= LOAN               DOMEaTNC |ANT             Industrial Pollution                       Qujing Water &
-  DOMESTIC LOAN          INEtA  UMCompaniies                                                 Drainage Compn
MULTIPLE FLOWS



-153 -                      ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
Introduction
1.    Yunnan's industrial growth of nearly 9 percent per year over the past decade has
been accompanied by increasing discharges of wastewater, solid waste, and air pollutants.
An increasingly strict environmental regulatory regime has held waste discharges below the
overall growth rate, but wastewater and air polluting discharges have still grown some 6
percent per year. Naturally, the impact of this growth varies with location, industrial
concentration and type of effluent. The candidate cities for the YEP have the largest
concentrations of industry, and some of the most highly polluting, in the province:
Kunming and Gejiu industry discharge to lakes with declining absorptive capacity and
Qujing industrial discharges to the Nanpanjiang River have already rendered that body
unusable for several kilometers below the city. Heavy metal and toxic organic chemical
discharges continue in all of those cities. Of the worst 100 polluting industries in Yunnan,
Kunming contains 27, the Gejiu/Kaiyuan area 19, and Qujing 16.
2.    In the province as a whole, the chemical industry remains the worst polluter,
responsible for 62 percent of all industrial water pollution and providing 30 of the top 100
polluters (22 for wastewater pollution, 8 for air pollution). Next comes the metallurgical
industry, with 14 percent of wastewater and 27 percent of air pollution, and 20 of the top
polluters. The pulp and paper industry ranks third, with 23 of the top polluters, all in
wastewater, and sugarcane processing next with 6 top polluters, again all in wastewater.
Other top polluters include a variety of thermal power plants and cement plants, with air
pollution being their main problem.
3.    Kunming's Lake Dianchi provides one measure of the relative impact of industrial
pollution. This lake has become eutrophic, with serious consequences for beneficial uses of
the lake. Phosphorus is the limiting nutrient in Dianchi, and annual available phosphorus
loads are judged to total some 522 tons, of which industry contributes 115 tons, or 22
percent. Of the 115 tons of available industrial phosphorus, two plants, those of the
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Company and the Kunyang Phosphorus Fertilizer Company,
contribute three-fourths of the load. The other major sources of phosphorus include
domestic and animal wastes, carried directly or, along with other sources, by storm runoff
and precipitation. Heavy metal loads discharging to Lake Dianchi have been largely
controlled, but in the recent past have forced the temporary closing of water treatment
plants and residual loads in the lake sediment remain large.
4.    Analysis of pollution sources and abatement costs in Yunnan demonstrates the
relatively low cost of addressing some pollutants at source. Reduction of phosphorus, for
example, costs about Y 2.7 million per ton per year in capital costs at the Kunyang



-154 -                      ANNEX 12
Phosphorus Fertilizer Plant and Y 6 million per ton per year in capital costs in the planned
Kunming No. 5 municipal treatment plant. Where pollutants are toxic to the conventional
wastewater treatment processes used in Yunnan municipal plants, or bypass those plants,
source control cannot be avoided. The Industrial Pollution Control component of the
project addresses these industrial point sources.
5.    The IPC component relies on a three part strategy: (a) direct onlending to clean up
the two fertilizer plants that are major polluters; (b) lending for a number of smaller
pollution control investments through an Environmental Pollution Control Subloans
(EPCSL) Facility, to be capitalized at $10 million, utilizing $5 million of proceeds of the
Bank loan/IDA credit, and an equal amount of local currency; and (c) action plans for the
cleanup of the Kunming Steel General Company and the Yunfeng Paper Mill, financed
through non-Bank sources, as well as ceasing operations in the manufacture and handling of
pesticides and other toxic materials at the Kunming Agricultural Chemical Factory plant by
June 30, 1998, to protect municipal wastewater treatment facilities. This annex discusses in
turn each part of the strategy.
FERTILIZER PLANT FINANCING FOR POLLUTION ABATEMENT
6.    Two fertilizer plants in the Dianchi Basin-the Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer
Factory and the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory-between them contribute 16 percent
of all available phosphate discharged into Dianchi Lake, and 73 percent of the industrial
contribution. Existing wastewater treatment facilities at the factories lack adequate design
capacity to handle waste flows, and the equipment breaks down with such frequency that
treatment goals remain unmet. Kunyang Phosphate maintains a modest profit of Y 3
million per year, or a return of about 2 percent on capital, while the Kunming Chemical
Fertilizer Factory eamed about Y 1.5 million in 1995 on capital of Y 90 million. In a
government attempt to hold down agricultural input prices, the fertilizer industry remains
one of the few subject to strict output price controls, coupled with mandated production.
Consequently, losses in these industries are known as "policy losses" and are covered
through subsidies to the plants (the Kunming Factory profit came after a Y4 million subsidy
payment). Despite the subsidies, the plants lack adequate operation and maintenance funds,
which exacerbates operating pressures on the waste treatment systems. The proposed
investments in the plants would radically change their production processes and
intermediate outputs, allowing profitable operation despite output price restraints.
Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory
7.    Kunyang contributes 57 tons per year of phosphorus to Dianchi, approximately 90
percent of that in soluble, or available, form. The plant produces a variety of phosphate
fertilizers and phosphate-based food additives, in addition to producing sulfuric acid for use
in producing double superphosphate. Current production processes do not maximize water
reuse, wastewater treatment cannot meet flow requirements, and obsolete equipment with
high breakdown rates leads to frequent unplanned discharges of process water. The
proposed project would rebuild much of the plant to maximize water reuse and minimize



-155-                       ANNEX12
pollution, leading to smaller, more easily handled wastewater streams. Those wastewater
streams would then undergo treatment improved from that currently used.
8.    The wastewater minimization engineering, coupled with raw material changes, will
substantially reduced total pollutant loads. Wastewater flows will drop from 540 m /hour to
117 m3/hour, with suspended solids cut by more than 50 percent; fluorine dropping from
19.8 tons/year-to 7.1 tons/year; and phosphorus from 57 to 18.5 tons/year. The addition of
secondary treatment of that residual stream will further cut all of the above pollutants, with
phosphorus dropping below 1 ton/year.
9.    To achieve the above goal, the factory will switch from pyrite-based sulfuric acid
production to the use of imported sulfur as a raw material. This will eliminate the waste
slag, which itself caused pollution through rainfall runoff leaching out toxic materials and
will allow a water recirculation system that requires only 34 m3/hour in replacement water,
compared to the 193 m3/hour now needed. The concentration of sulfur dioxide (SO2) in
waste gas will also drop from 500 ppm to 350 ppm, due to the purer raw material.
10.   In another move, the factory will cease production of calcium phosphate and
magnesium phosphate, increasing production of a variety of refined phosphate products
used in the food industry. The former production line discharges about 60 m3/hour of
wastewater and 4 tons/hour of sludge, both of which will end with the new products. The
factory already has experience producing and marketing refined phosphate for the food
industry, and these higher value-added products will contribute to increased firm
profitability.
11.   The double superphosphate production line will be overhauled, replacing corroded
equipment, shifting to cooling technologies that minimize the chance for pollution of the
cooling water, and adding a closed water system that allows recapture of phosphorus in the
washing water. The totality of these measures will reduce wastewater discharge by an
additional 170 m3/hour. Similar renovation and upgrading, to include separation of cooling
and process water streams, will reduce discharge and pollution in the yellow phosphorus
line.
12.   The remaining wastewater will discharge to a treatment plant optimized for removal
of the constituents of the plant waste stream. A full description of the process may be found
in the project files.
13.   The above technical transformation will not only radically reduce the pollutant load
from the plant, it will also improve its profitability. The key to that improvement lies not in
the pollution reduction per se-for the factory has not, heretofore, been charged the full
pollution levy fee for its polluting output. Rather, the ability to shift to a higher value
product mix, through the food phosphate market not subject to government price controls,
will produce that result.
14.   As the above description suggests, the current plant has suffered from neglected
routine maintenance, which is crucial to pollution control. Plant managers recognize this



-156 -                       ANNEX 12
failing and have launched a campaign to reduce pollution in 1996 by 20 percent through
improved housekeeping. To assist in that effort, the plant has requested that the loan
include technical assistance in operation and maintenance of their renovated facilities,
including the wastewater treatment plant
15.   Major portions of the proposed investment promise no financial return for the plant,
but do offer major environmental gains. The financial internal rate of return (IRR) of the
combined investment totals 9.6%, assuming that the plant operates 300 days a year (83
percent utilization). Actual utilization currently reaches 330 days per year. The results are
robust to utilization (or sales) charges, with 60 percent utilization (216 days) yielding a 7
percent IRR. The debt service coverage ratio is a key indication for pollution abatement
projects of this type, and remains above 1.4 under all scenarios but the 60 percent utilization
case, where it would fall to 1.3 for a single year.
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory
16.   Kunming Chemical Fertilizer contributes 36 tons per year of phosphorus to Dianchi,
approximately 90 percent of that in soluble, or available, form. The plant produces a variety
of fertilizers, including NPK granular fertilizer and monoammonium phosphate (MAP). As
in Kunyang, current production processes do not maximize water reuse, wastewater
treatment cannot meet flow requirements, and obsolete equipment with high breakdown
rates leads to frequent unplanned discharges of process water. The proposed project would
rebuild much of the plant to maximize water reuse and minimize pollution, leading to
smaller, more easily handled wastewater streams. Those wastewater streams would then
undergo improved treatment from that currently used.
17.   As with Kunyang, the renovation strategy relies on replacing corroded and obsolete
equipment, separating process water from cooling water, and where possible, reusing
process water after recovery of constituent chemicals. Wastewater minimization alone will
reduce wastewater discharges from 550 m3/hour to 59 m3/hour, and in the process reduce
suspended solid loads from 217 to 85 tons/year, phosphorus from 36 to 3.5 tons/year, and
NH3-N from 332 to 85 tons/year. Treatment of that wastewater stream will further reduce
suspended solids to 21 tons/year, phosphorus to less than 0.5 tons/year, and NH3-N to
I 1 tons/year.
18.   The ammonia production line desulfurization will switch from a liquid-phase
catalysis method to a tannin-based method that will eliminate 30 m /hour of a high
ammonia wastewater stream and suspended sulfur will be recovered, the cooling water will
be changed to an isolated, closed system, the cooling system redesigned for greater
efficiency, and corroded equipment replaced. The phosphoric acid and MAP workshops
will replace corroded equipment and add agitators to tanks to decrease precipitation and
thus the need to wash the tanks. In addition, the gypsum storage site will to redesigned to
minimize and capture leachate.
19.   A sulfuric acid production facility, using sulfur as a raw material, will be set up to
end the need to purchase sulfuric acid on the market. Intermittent availability of sulfliric



-157 -                      ANNEX 12
acid has forced the MAP production line itself to run intermittently, in the last year at only
about 25 percent of capacity. With every shutdown of that line, the equipment must be
washed and pipes flushed, resulting in substantial unplanned waste loads that cannot be
handled by the current treatment plant. The sulfuric acid plant will be designed to the
improved standard to be used in Kunyang, hence pollution from that source can be
minimized.
20.   As in Kunyang, the remaining wastewater will discharge to a treatment plant
optimized for removal of the constituents of the plant waste stream. A full description of
the process may be found in the project files. Kunming has requested loan support for a
two-year technical assistance program in operation and maintenance of their new and
renovated plant and equipment. This will help plant managers realize their goal of cleaner
production and sustainable gains from the investment.
21.   The above technical transformation will not only radically reduce the pollutant load
from the plant, it will also improve its profitability. For Kunming Chemical Fertilizer, the
key to profitability lies in the new sulfuric acid plant, which will provide a reliable and less
expensive sulfuric acid supply to support normal production in the MAP facility. The
sulfuric acid plant will also produce a surplus that can be sold into a market free of
government price controls.
22.   The proposed investment will allow a substantial increase in the utilization of
existing plant and equipment, and for that reason produces a high internal rate of return
(IRR) of 93 percent at the base utilization rate of 83 percent (300 days/year). The results are
robust to utilization or sales charges, still reaching 26 percent if utilization falls to 60
percent. Similarly, substantial increases in input prices can be absorbed. The projected
debt service ratio remains above 1.4 under the tested utilization rates and price changes.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION CONTROL
23.   In addition to the two major contributors to Dianchi Lake pollution that will be
addressed directly through the project, a large number of other polluters also need technical
and financial assistance to bring their discharges within the permitted loads. As one means
of providing such assistance, a 1982 Chinese environmental law provided for the
establishment of provincial, municipal, and county environment funds financed by pollution
fees. These originally provided subsidies and grants for pollution reduction investments in
industrial and municipal pollution reduction projects, and for EPB environmental
monitoring and enforcement. A 1988 amendment to the law stipulated that up to 30 percent
of the fund income was to be loaned, rather than granted, to enterprises. Bank Group-
financed projects in Hubei, Jiangsu, Liaoning, Tianjin, Zhejiang, and the Medium-Sized
Cities project, have supported improved environmental fund project identification and
management.



-158 -                      ANNEX 12
Pollution Fee Collection and Use in Yunnan Province
24.   In Yunnan, municipal and county EPBs collect pollution levy fees, while the
provincial, municipal and county EPBs jointly plan fee collection and utilization. The
finance bureau at each level of government holds the revenue collected, and disburses it via
local branches of the People's Construction Bank of China according to a fund allocation
plan provided by the EPBs.
25.   Fee rates have been established for wastewater discharges, waste gas emissions,
solid waste dumping and noise pollution. Fee collections rose from Y 38 million in 1992 to
over Y 52 million in 1994, with over 70 percent of the collected fees used for industrial
pollution control and the remainder financing the EPBs' environmental monitoring and
enforcement work. Had all fees been collected to stipulated levels, actual collections would
have been much higher. A total of 4,815 industries paid fees in 1994, with the top 100
polluters paying about 40 percent of all levies collected, but even the top polluters pay only
about half of what the regulations stipulate. Township and village industries pay an even
smaller proportion of theoretical levies. The relatively low collection rates are common
across China, for Yunnan shares with other provinces a reluctance to shut down highly
polluting but marginally profitable, or even loss-making, enterprises.  Instead, local
governments seek production and marketing opportunities for these plants designed to both
restore their profitability and cut pollution. Such opportunities exist, as shown with the
fertilizer plants. The environment funds provide a source of capital for other such
investments.
26.   Bank Experience in China with Environmental Funds. China still has limited
experience with environmental loan funds.  The Bank Group has supported the
establishment of such funds under six different projects and three of them have been in
operation for at least one year. Compared to domestically financed funds, the Bank Group-
assisted funds have been found to have the following advantages:
(a)   they typically provide a stronger framework for management, including
organization, staffing and operation regulations, and consciously seek links
with other environmental protection management measures such as the
promotion of pollution prevention programs;
(b)   they institute rigorous requirements and procedures for project preparation
and appraisal, ensuring a higher project success rate; and
(c)   they train staff of the fund offices in the technical and financial areas.
27.   One disadvantage of Bank-supported funds is that the more rigorous appraisal
procedures have been expensive compared to the size of the typical loan, which has been
under $1 million. Due regard needs to be given to modifications of the appraisal procedures
to bring down costs while maintaining quality.



-159 -                      ANNEX 12
Environmental Pollution Control Subloans
28.   The purpose of EPCSL is to strengthen the existing Yunnan pollution prevention
program with a technically and institutionally sustainable financing mechanism. The
subloans would primarily assist small-scale industrial enterprises within the Dianchi basin
to control pollution through waste minimization measures, modifications or renovations to
existing plants to reduce waste outputs, or to recycle waste generated during production.
Industrial upgrading projects designed to reduce the amount of pollutant discharge and to
save natural resources and energy, commercial waste recovery services and centralized
treatment plants would also be considered by the Fund. The Yunnan Environmental
Protection Bureau (YEPB) has identified a priority list of Dianchi basin enterprises, and
others among the 100 most polluting enterprises, to receive preferential access to EPCSL.
29.   Organization and Financing of EPCSL. EPCSL would be a self-accounting
government facility, with initial capital equivalent of Y 84 million. The Bank Loan/IDA
Credit would provide $5 million and Yunnan Province would contribute an equivalent sum
(no less than Y 14 million for each of the first three years). While the size of the Bank/IDA
contribution has been kept small, the justification for Bank/IDA support for the facility
derives from, first, the advantages listed above.
30.   YPG has designated the Yunnan Finance Bureau (YFB) to administer EPCSL.
YEPB has prepared draft operations regulations for EPCSL, setting out the criteria for
subloans processing and approvals, the rules and regulations for management, and defining
the terms and conditions for loans. Disbursement against this component can begin only
after selection of a domestic bank (agent bank) to act as the agent in handling loan funds
and the signing of an agreement, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, between that domestic bank
and YP, laying out the agency agreement. The EPCSL Steering Committee would
determine the institutional structure and staff composition of the EPCSL Management
Office and approve its annual work plan and budget.
31.   The EPCSL Fund Management Office (SLMO) would have up to 6 staff, to be
recruited during a three-year period, including specialists in environmental science and
technology, industrial processing, economics and finance, and administration. The director
would be appointed by the Steering Committee, and other staff would be locally recruited.
The main role of SLMO would be in investment project planning, coordination between
borrower and agent bank, review of project feasibility and supervision of project
implementation. Financial appraisal will be handled within SLMO, while technical
appraisal will rely on consultants for industry-specific expertise.
32.   Project Selection. Each application would be first reviewed by the local industrial
bureau and planning commission, and approved by the concerned local EPB to ensure
consistency with the municipal environmental planning. On that basis, YEPB will lead an
appraisal that looks particularly at the appropriateness of the investment, given available
technology and the input and output markets; the quality of enterprise management as
demonstrated in their current operating environment; the suitability of the pollution



-160 -                     ANNEX 12
abatement measures proposed to the effluents produced in the enterprise; and the design of
easily maintained and operated systems well within the technical competence of enterprise
personnel.
Project Management Procedures
33.   EPCSL operating procedures will include the following:
(a)   The SLMO would issue directives and solicitations for project proposals to
the priority area EPBs and planning commissions;
(b)   With consent from the local industrial bureau, the enterprise would submit a
loan application to its EPB and planning commission;
(c)   With EPB and planning commission concurrence, the enterprise would
prepare a feasibility study report, including a financial proposal for
investment and an environmental impact assessment;
(d)   After the project has been successfully appraised, SLMO would submit the
appraisal report and proposed loan conditions to the World Bank Group for
no-objection. The Bank/IDA would provide ex-ante review of the first three
subloan projects and thereafter each subloan of over $300,000, with all other
subloans subject to ex-post review;
(e)   The EPCSL Steering Committee would be responsible for the final approval
of subloan projects. After approval, SLMO would confirm the loan to the
enterprise, any cofinancing agencies and the agent bank;
(f)   SLMO would supervise the implementation of the project;
(g)   After satisfying itself as to the quality of a commissioned project, the
relevant bureau would issue a Certificate of Examination and Acceptance to
the enterprise;
(h)   The bureau in charge would submit examination and acceptance documents
for the project to SLMO; and
(i)   SLMO would separately assess whether the project meets the design
document requirements. If it does not, SLMO would arrange for appropriate
departments to intervene, seeking necessary amendments to the project.
Project Appraisal
34.   For the technical appraisal of individual projects, the general criteria to be
considered are: (a) the project's impact on the ambient environrent; (b) compliance with
environmental regulations and standards; and (c) technical feasibility and identification of
the least-cost option.



-161-                      ANNEX 12
35.   The economic appraisal must show that the enterprise is economically viable.
36.   The financial appraisal must demonstrate that the enterprise, as a whole, would be
financially viable, including meeting a debt service ratio larger than 1.4 after the proposed
project reaches full production capacity. For joint waste treatment facilities, a financing
plan for the operation and maintenance of the facility would be required.
Project Financing Procedures Between Agent Bank and Borrower
37.   Once a subloan application is approved by the EPCSL Steering Conmnittee, the
agent bank would execute the loan according to procedures described below:
(a)   The agent would confirm the project financing plan with the borrower, in
accordance with the loan agreement signed between Yunnan Province (YP)
and the enterprise;
(b)   The project unit would open an account with the agent;
(c)   The agent would disburse funds upon receipt of statement of expenditure, in
the form of invoice or letter of credit. Normally, disbursement would be
made once a month;
(d)   The agent would supervise the fund's use by the project unit. If project
funds are found to have been used for any purpose other than the approved
project, the agent would refuse further disbursement and notify SLMO;
(e)   The agent would report to YFB quarterly on the financial status of loans
made to borrowers. The agent would also report emerging issues and make
suggestions for improvement as needed;
(f)   At project completion, the agent would finalize the financial accounting;
(g)   If projects fail to meet project date or design criteria, the agent shall notify
SLMO; and
(h)   The agent would assist SLMO in the collection of loan principal, interest,
late payment penalties and fines.
Disbursement would be made through the agent from the account for EPCSL in the Yunnan
Finance Bureau. EPCSL would be audited annually, to include a management letter.
Loans
38.   The loan for any project would be limited to 100 percent of foreign exchange costs,
or 50 percent of total project costs (excluding land), whichever is higher. Total project size
would not normally exceed $1 million. Loan maturity would be three to five years, with up
to two years of grace. YFB would bear the subloan credit risk, and the enterprise the



-162 -                     ANNEX 12
foreign exchange risk. The subloan interest rate would be no less than the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans plus a spread of 1.5 percent per year
and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent. Repayments to EPCSL would be recycled for
additional subprojects to the extent funds are not needed for repayment of the Bank/IDA
loan.
Institutional Development and Equipment Needs
39.   The Subloans Management Office personnel would undergo an extensive training
program.  Training courses would include economic and financial analysis, waste
management, waste reduction technology, particularly resource recovery/recycling and
clean technology. Training and equipment for EPCSL will be partly financed under
Package H of the technical assistance schedule.
ACTION PLANS FOR INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
40.   Two major polluters within the Dianchi Basin, the Yunfeng Paper Mill and
Kunming Steel General Company, have identified funding sources apart from the
Bank/IDA loan and have agreed that their pollution abatement action plans be incorporated
within the scope of the project. A third polluter, the Kunming Agricultural Chemical
Factory, also has abatement plans, but has yet to identify funding sources for them. In view
of the possible impact of this plant on the municipal wastewater investments, the municipal
government has undertaken to close or move the plant within three years by not later than
June 30, 1999. Copies of all three plans are available in the project files, while those of
Yunfeng and Kunming Steel are summarized below.
41.   The Yunfeng Paper Mill currently discharges black liquor from the pulp cooking
section, with a chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration of about 18,000 mg/l to a
storage pond, from which it is flushed during the rainy season. The wastewater from pulp
washing and from the paper coating workshop discharges directly to the Tanglangchuan.
Yunfeng's planned investments would recover much of the alkali from the black liquor,
reducing total pollution loads and easing treatment. An expanded treatment plant would
treat the remaining wash water currently discharging directly to the river. In this fashion,
removal rates of COD, biological oxygen demand (BOD), and suspended solids would all
increase by 80 percent or more compared to the current situation.
42.   The Kunring Steel General Company currently discharges an array of toxic and
other pollutants, including 10 tons of cyanide, over 20 tons of phenol and 350 tons of oil
into the Tanglangchuan. Although this represents a substantial decrease over 20 years ago,
the plant uses (and then discharges as wastewater) almost the entire flow of the
Tanglangchuan during the dry season. To meet water needs for increased production, they
plan to move to very high levels of water recycling, and for that need to reduce pollutant
concentrations in their wastewater. Their strategy is to separate the various water streams,
allowing immediate reuse of cooling water. Other water will pass through one of two new
wastewater treatment plants before reuse. The company estimates that overall recycling
rates can climb from the current 29 percent to over 80 percent.



-163 -                     ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: MUNICIPAL FINANCES
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.    The assumptions made when calculating the projections of the on-budget revenue
and expenditure statements of (a) Yunnan Province; (b) Honghe and Qujing Prefectures;
(c) Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing Municipalities; and (d) Chenggong and Jinnin Counties, for
the period 1995-2002 are set out below. On-budget revenues are those arising from taxes
levied on enterprises operating in the these areas; off-budget revenues consist of special fees
to enterprises and are used chiefly for capital expenditures.
Revenue Forecast
2.    The actual (1992-94) on-budget revenue figures have been derived from data
provided by the provincial, prefectural, municipal and county governments. Between 1992
and 1994, the average annual increase in revenue was between 21 and 68 percent in current
terms, except for Qujing Prefecture, where there was a decrease of 9 percent. In 1994, the
Central Government restructured the tax system, bolstering its share. As a result, there were
marginal declines in revenue in 1994 from 1993, except for Qujing Municipality, Honghe
Prefecture and Chenggong County which posted gains of between 4 and 38 percent. To
estimate future revenues, an overall average annual increase of about 10 percent in real
terms has been assumed using 1994 as the base year.
Expenditure Forecast
3.    Historically, on-budget expenditures have registered between 98 to 100 percent of
on-budget revenues. There was little change in that ratio in 1994 when the tax system was
restructured (para. 2), except in Qujing Municipality and Prefecture, and Chenggong and
Jinnin Counties where expenditures rose marginally as a percent of 1994 revenues. To
estimate future expenditures, the ratio of expenditures to revenues is assumed to be
generally between 75 to 100 percent of revenues.
4.    The following tables summarize projected revenue and expenditure data from 1995
to 2002 for the Municipalities of Gejiu, Kunring and Qujing, the main beneficiaries of
project investments, and Yunnan Province.  Projected project expenditures are also
included.



-164 -                         ANNEX 13
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
(Y/million)
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Gejiu
Receipts               116     134     156      183    215      253     299     354
Expenditures           109     126     147     172     202      237     278     326
Project Exp.             0       5      23      28       12       4       1        0
Project as % of Exp.     0       4      16      16        6       2      0.3       0
Kunming
Receipts             2,609   4,244   4,789   5,426   6,170   7,042   8,065   9,265
Expenditures         2,521   3,150   3,655   4,247   4,943   5,759   6,719   7,846
Project Exp.             0       5     191     477     630      405     191      41
Project as % of Exp.     0     0.2       5      11       13       7       3      0.5
Qujing
Receipts              227      354     407     468     542      630     734     859
Expenditures          230      262     305     357     417      487     571     669
Project Exp.             0       0      30      92      111      98      56       12
Project as % of Exp.    0        0      10      26      27       20      10       2
YUNNAN PROVINCIAL FINANCES
(Y/billion)
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Receipts            22.8    23.6    25.4    27.1    29.4    32.0    34.9    38.2
Expenditures        23.2    24.2    25.8    27.5    29.8    32.4    35.3    38.6
Project Exp.         0.0      0.03    0.4     0.7     0.9      0.6     0.3     0.07
Project as % of Exp.   0.0    0.1     2.0     3.0     3.0      2.0     0.8     0.2



-165 -                      ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ASSUMPTIONS
A. WATER SUPPLY COMPANIES
1.    Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the Kunming
Water Supply Company (KWSC) and the water supply division of Qujing Water Supply
and Drainage Company (QWSDC) for the period 1993-2002 are provided below.
2.    Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used in the
projections are, 10.6 percent in 1996, 8.5 percent in 1997, 7.0 percent in 1998, 6.5 percent
in 1999, and 6.2 percent in percent in 2000-02. Foreign price increases are estimated at
2.4 percent for each of years 1995-2002. The exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to
local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.3 per $1.0. It is assumed that exchange rate
adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power parity over the projection
period.
Income Statement
3.    Water Sales. Projections of sales are based on "minimum demand" and maximum
capacity figures. Unaccounted-for-water is estimated at 12 percent of production. It is
assumed that whenever demand exceeds supply, the shortfall would be borne by both the
domestic and nondomestic categories of consumers, proportionally.
4.    Average Tariffs. The average prices in yuan per m in current terms are as follows:
1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002
Kunming       0.59     0.59      0.59      0.67     0.72      0.76      0.81
Qujing        0.77     0.93      1.16      1.23      1.31     1.39      1.48
5.    Tariffs. The current domestic, commercial and industrial tariffs in Gejiu are
Y 0.60/m3, Y 0.80 m3 and Y 1.00/m3 respectively. They were introduced in August 1995
replacing the previous tariffs of Y 0.49/m3, Y 0.69/m  and Y 0.89/m3. The domestic,
industrial and commercial, construction, and foreign hotels tariffs in effect in Kunming
since January 1, 1996 are Y 0.60 m/?, Y 0.76/m3, Y 1.10/Im3 and Y 1.50 m3, respectively.
The domestic tariff in Qujing is Y 0.80/m3, rising from Y 0.60/m3 introduced in February
1994. The industrial/commercial, foreign hotels and construction tariffs in Qujing are
Y l.10/m3, Y 1.65/mi3 and Y1.50/m3, respectively.



-166 -                     ANNEX 14
6.    Operating Costs. Salaries and wages are assumed to increase at the rates given in
para. 2 above. Energy prices are assumed to increase in line with general inflation.
Materials and other costs are assumed to increase at the general inflation rate. Composite
depreciation rates of 5.0 percent and 6.7 percent have been applied for Kunming and Qujing
respectively. A Municipal Public Facility Supplementary Tax, Value Added Taxes (VAT),
an urban construction and maintenance surtax and an education surtax totaling 13.3 percent
are charged on gross operating revenue in Kunming. VAT, including an urban construction
and maintenance surtax, and an education surtax, totaling 14.3 percent are charged on gross
operating revenue in Qujing. Income taxes of 33 percent apply in both Kunming and
Qujing.
7.    Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan and IDA
credit are assumed to be onlent by the Kunming and Qujing Municipal Governments to
KWSC and QWSDC at the standard rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans
(5.76 percent per year at the time of appraisal), and 0.75 percent per year commitment
charge, over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. Interest is paid annually. Amortization of
loans would be on the basis of equal payments of principal. KWSC and QWSDC would
bear the foreign exchange risk. The municipalities would provide the local capital
counterpart funds as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
8.   Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general inflation
as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
9.    Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable from water sales are assumed to be
25 days' revenue.
10.   Fixed Assets.  Fixed assets are valued at historic costs. In the projections,
construction work-in progress is assumed to be 100 percent accounted for upon completion.
Source and Application of Funds
11.   Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or otherwise,
of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous year's
current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
12.   Change in Cash.  Change in cash (which includes short-term  investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.
B. WASTEWATER COMPANIES
13.   Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of Kunming
Drainage Company (KDC) and the wastewater units of Gejiu Water Supply and Drainage
Company (GWSDC) and Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company (QWSDC) for the
period 1995-2002 are provided below.



-167 -                      ANNEX 14
14.   Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used in the
projections are 10.6 percent in 1996, 8.5 percent in 1997, 7.0 percent in 1998, 6.5 percent in
1999, and 6.2 percent in percent in 2000-02. Foreign price increases are estimated at
2.4 percent for each of years 1995-2002. The exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to
local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.3 per $1.0. It is assumed that exchange rate
adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power parity over the projection
period.
Income Statement
15.   Sales. Projections of sewerage quantities are based on "minimum demand" and
maximum capacity figures, and at the equivalent of 80 percent of water bills for Gejiu and
Qujing, and 100 percent for Kunming.
16.   Average Tariffs. The average prices in yuan per m in current terms are as follows:
1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002
Gejiu         0.37     0.50      0.85      0.98      1.02      1.08      1.30
Kunming       0.18     0.61      0.73      0.86      0.94      1.03      1.09
Qujing        0.43      0.45     0.48      0.51      0.54      0.66      0.66
17.   Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase at the
rates given in para. 15 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to increase in
line with general inflation also. Composite depreciation rates for Gejiu, Kunming and
Qujing are 3.3 percent, 6.6 percent and 6.7 percent. There is no business or income tax.
18.   Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan and IDA
credit are assumed to be onlent to the Kunming Drainage Company and the wastewater
units of GWSDC and QWSDC by their respective Municipal Governments at the standard
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans (5.76 percent per year at the time of
appraisal), and 0.75 percent per year commitment charge over 15 years, including 5 years of
grace. Interest is paid annually. Amortization of loans would be on the basis of equal
payments of principal. The wastewater companies would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The municipalities would provide the local capital counterpart funds as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
19.   Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general inflation
as well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
20.   Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be about 62 days'
revenue.



-168 -                       ANNEX 14
Source and Application of Funds
21.   Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or otherwise,
of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous year's
current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
22.   Change in Cash.  Change in cash (which includes short-term  investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.



- 169-
ANNEX 14
Kunming Drainage Company
Operational Indicators
1le"      1997     108       1999      2000      2001      2002
Water Supply System
Water Production Capacity (000s rn3/year)         175200    175200    211700    237250    237250   273750    273750
Water Production (OOOs m3/year)                    175200    175200    202191    207044   229391    234896    240534
Water Sold (000s m3/year)                          154176    154176    177928    182198    201864   206708    21166
Water Connections (000s)                             779        798      816        834       852       871       889
Population Served (OOs)                           1524.2    1560.8    1598.3    1636.8    1675.9   1716.1    1757.3
Water Consumption (Ipcd)                            305.0     305.0     305.0     305.0     330.0    330.0       330.0
Percent Metered                                      95%       95%       95%       95%       95%       95%       95%
Percent of Working Meters                            98%       98%       98%       98%       98%       9B%       98%
Sewerage Sydte
Sevage Quantity (OODs m3lyear)                    157007    157007    178383    182227    199926   204286   208751
Actual Billed Sewage Quantity (000s maYyear)       138758    148795    171084    175840    194451   199724   204189
Stormwater (000s m3tyeer)                          27752     27752     32027      32796     36335     37208    38101
Sewerage Treatment Capacity (000s m3lyear)         78475    133225    133225    195275    195275   195275    195275
Sewage Treated (000s m3/year)                      76906    130561    130561    191370    191370   191370    191370
% of Sewage Treatment Capacity Utlized               98%       98%       98%       98%       98%       98%       98%
# of Sewerage Connections                          153600    157200    160800    164400    168000   171600    175200
PopulationServedbySewerageSystem(000s)              1511      1547       1584      1622      1661      1701      1741
% of Sewage Treated (Inc. Infiltration)              49%       83%       73%      105%       96%       94%       92%
Sewage per Capita per Day (m3)                       0.28      0.28      0.31      0.31      0.33      0.33      0.33
Employees per 1.000 Connections                       00        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financial Indicators:
Current Price Unless Noted (000s Yuan)               196       1997      1998      1999      2000      2001  20 02
Operating Revenue                                  24283    90281    124494    151641    182502   205030    221681
Op. Rev.+Stormwtr Contnbution+Other Income         31553    100953    135914    176424   208821   232981    251365
Operating Expenses                                 36350    53361       57096    123915    131598   139757    148422
Depreciaton                                        26816     26816     26816      48702    77883    96121       97945
Operating Income                                   -38883     10104    40583    -20976    -26979   -30848    -24686
Net Income                                         -31613     15089    39718    -17145    -27349   -31739    -20553
O+M+Depreciatlon                                   63166     80177    83912    172617   209481    235878    246367
O+M+Debt Service                                   36350    55631      66422    142513    156333   166794   205A60
Rate of Retum on Net Fixed Assets                  -9.0%      4.6%     13 3%      -2.9%     -2.9%     -2.8%     -1.9%
Working Ratio                                        1.15      0.53      0.42      0.70      0.63      0.60      0.59
Operating Ratio                                      2.00      0.79      0.62      0.98      1.00      1.01      0.98
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                        NA         19.46      8.13      2.70      3.04      3.38      1.80
Deb1/(Debt+Equrty)                                   0.00      0.09      0.21      0.28      0.31      0.31      0.30
Current Ratio                                        2.58     14.21     31.35     22.25     28.04      6.77      7.85
# of Days of Accounts Receivable                    62.05     62.05     62.05     62.05     62.05     62.05     62.05
Capital Expenditure                                    0    105696    353799    496291    349378   139142       21832
Capital Expenditure-Constant Price                     0     91670    284860    374350   247810    92930        13730
Contribution of Internal Cash to Investnent       100.0%     31.4%     21.2%      3.7%      17.8%    63.9%    100.0%
Contribution of Intemal Cash to Investrnent(3 yeas Avewg    77.1%  50.9%  18.7%   14.2%    28.4%     60.6%     88.0%
Average Tariff (Yuan/m')
Actual Biled Operating Revenue                      0.18      0.61      0.73      0.86      0.94      1.03      1.09
Operating Revenue incl. Stormwater+Other Income     0.23      0.68      0.79      1.00      1.07      1.17      1.23
Operating Revenue - Constant Price                  0.22      0.59      0.64      0.76      0.76      0.78      0.77
Avg. Cost per m3 Sewage Disposal
Operating Expenses                                  0.26      0.36      0.33      0.70      0.68      0.70      0.73
Operating Expenses-Constant Pnce                    0.25      0.31      0.27      0.53      0.48      0.47      0.46
0 & M + >Depreciation or DS (DSR-1 3)               0.46      0.64      0.49      0.98      1.08      1.18      1.21
O & M + >Depreciation or DS (DSR>=1.3)-Constant Pric  0.43    0.47      0.39      0.74      0.76      0.79      0.76
Deflator                                             0.95      0.87      0.81      0.75      0.71      0.67      0.63



Kunming Water Supply Company
Monitoring Indicators
Production Indicators
1993    1994     199S   1996   1997   1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Production Capacity (mll m3/year)                       169      169      175    175    175    212        237     237      274     274
Actual Production (mil m3/ year)                         140     167      175    175    175    202        207     233      237    242
MaximumSales(milm /year)                                  0        0      166    170    174    178        182     205      209     213
Water Sold (mil m'fyear)                                 133     150      154    154    154    178        182     205      209    213
Unaccounted for Water                                    9%     12%      12%    12%    12%    12%        12%      12%      12%     12%
Service Connecbons (0OOs)                              229.4   247.4    252.0  256.6  261.2  265.8    270.4   275.0   279.6   284.2
SevicePopulafton(000s)                                1445.7  1464.8   1490.2  15259  1562.5  1600.0   16384   1699.2  1731.5  1764.4
Water / Capita / Day (Ipcd)                            227.3   253.7    305.0  305.0  305.0  305.0    305.0   330.0   330.0   330.0
Percent Metered Connection                             100%    100%     100%   100%   100%   100%       100%    100%    100%    100%
% of Working Metes                                      98%     98%      98%    98%    98%    98%        98%      98%     98%      98%
Employees per 1,000 Connections                          5.7     5.3      5.4    5.3    5.2    5.1        5.0      4.9      4.9    4.8
Financial Indlcators
Current Price Unless Noted (0s Yuan)                   1993    1934      1995   1996   1997   1998       1999    2000    2001    2002
Operating Revenue                                     47545   51593    60821 109477 109477 126483   148946  177494  192081  207865
NetOperatingRevenue                                   45990   51228    52732  90319  90319 104349  122881  146433  158466 171489
Operating Expenses                                    28922   41187    47806  60218  67001  79611   86862   93132   94847   96940
Depreciabon                                           10756   10491    12571  13679  13679  13679    13679   20210   26741   33504
Operating Income                                        585   -4389   -12985  10740   4637   6707    18595   23431   21343   19440
Not Income                                             3439       15   -10515   7942   3551   4062    10581   12430   10181    9201                         _
O+M+Depreciation                                      39678   51678    60377  73898  80680  93291   100542  113343  121588  130444
O+M+Debt Service                                      28922   41187    47806  61554  68768  82667    92060  100556  115042  116863
Rate of Return                                         2.0%    0.0%    -5.3%    3.8%    1.8%    2.2%     6.3%    4.5%     2.7%    1.9%
Working Raffo                                           0.63    0.80     0.91    0.67    0.74   0.76     0.71     0.64     0.60    0.57
Operating Rabo                                          0.89    1.01     1.14    0.86    0.91   0.91     0.86    0.82      0.80    0.79
Current Ratio                                           2.88    1.36     1.42    2.13    2.70    3.27    4.06     3.73     4.34    5.08
Debt Servce Coverage Raffo                             NA      NA       NA     16.24    10.07    6.45    5.49     5.29     1.43    1.64
DebV(Debt+Equity)                                      0.0%    0.0%      0.0%    0.9%   5.7%  13.6%    19.6%   21.0%    21.5%   20.5%
#of Days of Receivables                                 21 6    31.2     26.4   36.5   256    25.6        256     25.6    25.6    25.6
Capital Expenditure                                    6337   48160         0   5470  33760  80880   105800   84990   64940   19980
CapHIal Expenditure-Constant Price                     6337  48160          0   4557  25684  56985   69678   52633   37869   10971
Contribution of Internal Cashto Investment            37.6%   44.8%   100.0% 1000%   52.8%   14.2%    18.7%   30.1%    33.2%  1000%
Contributon of Internal Cash to Investment(3 years Average)  60 8%   60.8%    81.6%   84.3%  55.7%   28.6%    21.0%   27.4%    54.5%   77.7%
Average Cost per mO Water Produced                                                                                                                         Z
Operating Expenses-Current Price                       0.21    0.25     0.27    0.34    0.38    0.39     0.42    0.40     0.40    0.40
Operaing Expenses-Constant Price                       0.21    0.25     0.27    0.29    0.29    0.28     0.28    0.25     0.23    0.22
O&M + >Depreciation or Debt S. (DSR>=1.3)-Current Price    0.28    0.31  0.34    0.42    0.46    0.4"    0.49    0.49     0.61    0.64
O&M + >Depreciation or Debt S. (DSR>=1.3)-Constant Price  0.28    0.31  0.34    0.35    0.35    0.32     0.32    0.30     0.30    0.30
Average Tariff per m3 Water Sold
Net Operadrng Revenue - Current Price                  0.34    0.34     0.34    0.69    0.69    0.59     0.67    0.72     0.76    0.81
Operabing Revenue-Current Price                        0.36    0.34     0.39    0.71    0.71    0.71     0.82    0.87     0.92    0.98
Operating Revenue-Constant Price                       0.36    0.34      0.39    0.59    0.54    0.50    0.54    0.54     0.54    0.54
Deflator                                                1 00    1.00      1.00    0.83    0.76    0.70    0.66    0.62     0.58    0.55



Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company - Water Supply Division
Monitoring Indicators
Production Indicators
1993    1994      1995    1996    1997    1998        1999      2000     2001     2002
Production Capacity (mil m3/year)                              33       33        33       33      33       33        44       44        44       44
Actual Production (mil m3/ year)                               21       21        25       25      26       27        28       29        29       30
Maximum Sales (mil m3/year)                                     0        0        22       22      23       24        25       25        26       26
Water Sold (mil m3iyear)                                        18      18        22       22      23       24        25       25        26       26
Unaccounted for Water                                         12%      12%       12%     12%      12%     12%       12%       12%       12%     12%
Service Connections (000s)                                   3000    3000       3000    3000    3000    3000        3000     3000      3000    3000
Service Population (000s)                                    195 8    203 0     200 4   205 3   210 2   215 2      220 4    222 0    226 2    230 5
Waler / Capia / Day (Ipcd)                                   221 0    221 0     295 0   295 0   299 4   303 9      308 5    310 0    310 8    31t 6
Percent Metered Connection                                   100%    100%       100%    100%    100%    100%       100%      100%     100h    100%
% ot Working Meters                                           98%     98%        98%     98%      98%     98%       98%       98%      98%      98%
Employees per 1OCCC r Cunections                               01       0 1       01      01       0 i     0 1       0 1       01       01       01
Financial Indicators
Current Pnce Unless Noted (DDOs Yuan)                        1993    1994       1995    1996    1997    1998        1999     2000      2001    2002
Operating Revenue                                            5019    7232       9891   19916   24840   32272    35722    38402    41664   45203
Net Operating Revenue                                        4856    7180       9070   17068   21288   27657    30614    32911    35706   38739
Operating Expenses                                           2902    5362       6535    8283    9262   10196       16884    18031    19339   20744
Depreciation                                                 1404    1342       2322    2322    2322    2322        2322     6423    11893   15994
Operating Income                                              550      477       213    6463    9704   15139       11408     8456      4475    2001
Net Income                                                    515      378       225    4421    6026    8970        5394     2762       -30   -2596
O0M+Depreciation                                             4306    6703       8857   10605   11584   12518       19206    24455    31231   36738
O.M+Debt Service                                             2902    5362       6535    8283   10143   12173    20482    22621    24116   31479
Rate of Return                                               2 5%     13%       0 9%    18 8%   28 5%   47 6%     32 6%      3 91/O    0 0%    -1 4%
Worming Ratio                                                 0 60    0 75       0 72    0 49    0 44    0 37       0.55      0 55     0.54     0 54
Operating Ratio                                               089     096        099     075    068       061       0.71      078      087      095
Current Ratio                                                 2 63    4 39       6 06    10 48   15 90   2313      27 83    33.44      8 64     9 64
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                 NA       NA        NA       NA        9 77    6 46      3 03      2 92     3 48     1 70
DebtI(Debt+Equiy)                                            00%      00%       00%      00%    137%    279%       314%     32.1%     315%    30.3%
l ot Days of Receivables                                      19 5    22.8       21 1    36 5    25 6    25 6       25 6      25 6     25 6     25 6
Captal Expenditure                                              0        0         0        0   20620   78080    60720    22240    22410           0
Capdal Expenddure-Constant Pnce                                 0        0         0        0   15687   55145    40176    13837    13129           0
ContribLdion ofl ntemal Cash to Investment                 100 0%   100 0%    100 0%  100 0%   38 1%   13 0%       10 9%    38 3%    51 3%   100 0%
Coiitribution of Internal Cash to investmenl(3 years Average)  100 0%   100.0%    100 0%    79 4%   50 4%   20 7%  20 7%    33 5%    63 2%    83 8%
Average Cost per m' Water Produced
Openttmg Expenses-Current Prce                               014     0 26      0 27    0.33    0 35    0 38        0 60      0 63     0.66     0 70
Operating Expenses-Constant Price                            014     0.26      0.25    027    027    .027          040       039      0.39     038                           -
OAII +>Depreclatlon or Debt S. (DSR-=1.3).-Current Price     0.21    0.33       0.36    0.42    0.44    0.46       0.73      0.86     1.07     1.23
O&M + >Depreciation or Debt S (DSR>=I 3)-Constant Price      0 21    0 33       0 34    0 35    0 34    0 33       0 48      0 53     0.63     0 68
Average Tariff per m' Water Sold
Net OperatUng Revenue-Current Price                          0.27    0.40       0.42    0.77    0.93     1.16      1.23      1.31     139      1.48
Operatitg Revenue--Constant Prce                             0.27    0.40       0.39    064    071    082          082       082      082      082
Deflator                                                      1 00     1 00      0 93    0 83    0 76    0 71       0 66      0 62     0.59     0 55



-172-                                   ANNEX 14
QuJig Water Supply and Drainage Company
Orainage Division
Operational Indicators
1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001       2002
Water Supply System
Water Producbon Capacity (000s m3tyear)            33215    33215      33215      33215     44165     44165      44165     44165
Water Production (000s m3tvearl                    20623     24526    25492       26495     27538     28338      29092     29867
Water Sold (000s m3tvear)                          20623     21593    22433       23316     24233     24938      25601     26283
Water Connections (00Cs)                             761       779        798       816       834        852       871       889
PonulationServed(O00s)                             195.8      200.4     205.3     210.2     215.2      220.4     225.7     231.1
Water Consumption oer Capita per day                295.0     295.0     2994      303.9     308 5      310.0     310.8      311.6
Water Consumption per Connection per Day             0.02      0.02      0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.02       0.02
Percent Metered                                     95%       95%        95%       95%       95%        95%       95%       95%
Percent of Working Meters                           98%        98%       98%       98%       98%        98%       98%       98%
Sewerage System
TvtL Sewage Quartity (C0Os5lm3kearl                16498     21997    2           9381        24695   2538'    2614        26700
Actual Billed Sewage Quantity (COOs m34'ear!       16A98     17267     18585    19355       20153     20781      21375     21984
Stor-ater(00s m3.&year)                             330       353       3717      3871       4031      4156 I275            4397
Sewerage Treatment Capacity (0OOs m3.&ear)             1                                        I I  1  1    920n0    29200  29200
Sewage Treated (QOOs m3k.yenr!                         1                    1         1         1    28908      299Q8      28908
% of Sewage Treatment Capacity Utilized            1 00%      100%      100%      100%      100%       9g%        99A4      99%
* of Sewerage Coonections                           3000      3072      3144       321 S     328       3360       3A32      S50A
Population Served bySewerage Systern                 196       2Q0h      205       210        2t5       220        9926      231
% of Sewage Treated (Inc. Infltration)               0%         0%        0%        03%       0%       114        1        1 A-08%
Sewage per Capita Pe, Day                           0.23       0 24A     0.25         n2     A 96      0Ct 26     02        0 26
Emoloyees oer 1.000 Connections                      0 0        0.0       0.0       0 0       0 0        0.        0.0       0. 
Qujing WVater Supply and Drainage Company
Financial indicators:
Current Price Unless Noted (0OOs Yuan)              1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001       2002
Operating Revenue                                      1      7410      8390      9343      10319     11299     13285      14470
Op. Rev.+StomwtrContribution+Other Income            229      7469      8444      9412      10393     12171     14212      15440
Operating Expenses                                   269       298       323       346        368      4363      4634       4850
Depreciation                                        1504      1547      1547      1547       1547      4570      8601      11625
Operating Income                                   -1772      5566      6510      7451      8404       2366         50     -2005
Net Income                                         -1544      5625      5902      6654      6663         98      -2762     -4755
O+M+Depreciation                                    1773      1844      1870      1892       1915      8933     13235      16475
O+M+Debt Servica                                     269       298       524       753      1791       7203      8114      12639
Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assats                -7.3%      26.3%     32.2%     39.6%     43.7%       0.2%     -2.6%'    -3.4%
Working Ratio                                       1.18       0.04      0.04      0.04      0.04      0.36       0 33      0.31
Oparating Ratio                                     7.74      0.25       0.22      0.20      0.18      0.73       0.93      1.07
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                          NA         NA      38.03     21.14      6.77      2.64       2.69      1.33
Debti,Debt+Equity)                                  0.00      0.00       0.08      0.13      0.24      0.31       0.31      0.31
Current Ratio                                        NA         NA        NA        NA        NA    149.13        9.19      9.74
* of Days of Accounts Racarvable                     NA      59.64     61.80      61.83     61.85     61.57      61 86     61.86
Capital Expenditure                                    0         0      9362     10334    54342      80715      38705     15726
Capital Expenditure-Constant Price                     0         0      8120      8320    40990      57250      25850      9890
Contnrbution of Intemal Cash to Investment       100.0%    100.0%      89.2%     96.6%     19.6%       8.3%     21.3%     23 9%
Contribution of Intemal Cash to Inv(3yearsAveragei  100.0%   96.4%     95.3%     68.5%     41.5%      16.4%     17.9%'    48.4%
Average Tariff (Yuanhmr)
Operating Revenue                                  0.00      0.43       0.45      0.48      0.51      0.54       0.62      0.66
Op. Rev. + Stormwater+Other Income                 0.01      0.43      0.45       0.49      0.52      0.59      0.66       0.70
Operating Revenue - Constant Prica                 0.01      0.41       0.39      0.39      0.39      0.42       0.44      0.44
Average Cost per m' Sewage Disposal
Operating Expenses                                 0.02      0.02      0.02       0.02      0.02      0.21      0.22       0.22
Operating Expensas--Constant Price                 0.02      0.02      0.02       0.01      0.01      0.15      0.14       0.14
o & M+ >Depreciation or DS (DSR-:1.3)               NA        NA         NA        NA        NA       0.31      0.46       0.57
O & M + >Depreciation or DS (DSR-1 .3)--Constant Price        NA        NA         NA        NA       0.22      0.31       0 36
Deflator                                            1.00      0.95      087       0.i1      0.75      071       0.67       063



- 173 -
ANNEX 14
Gejiu Water Supply and Drainage Company
Drainage Division
Operational Indicators
1996      1916     1t7        191s      1991s     2000      201       2002
Water Supply Systm
Water Production Capcity (000s m  10643     10643     10643    10643      10643     12023     12023    12023
Water Production (000  m3/yer)    36       10643     10643     10643     10643     12023     12023    12023
Water Sold (OOOs m3yer)           93666     6 6        9         9366      9366     10580     10580    10580
Water Connections(OOOs)            1000      1024      1048      1072      1096      1120      1144      118e
Popuation Served (OOOs)           131.4     134.6     137.8    141.1      144.5     148.0     151.5    155.2
Water Consumpion (Ipcd)           306.0     305.0     306.0     305.0    305.0    305.0       306.0    305.0
Sewerage System
Toal Sewage Quantity (OOOsrnsys   5621      9792       9952      9962      9962     11117     11117    11117
Actual Billed Sewag Quatty (000.  5621      7493       8293      8293      8293      9264      9264      9264
Sewerage from Industries With Own Water Source          800       800       800       800       800       800
Stomwater (00s m3year)                      1499       1659      1659      1659      1853      1853      1853
Sewerage Treatrent Capaity (000W     0         0          0      5475      5475      5475      5475      5475
Sewage Treated (000s m3/yer)         0         0          0      4664      4654      4928      4928      4928
% of Sewage Treatment Capecity UI   0%        0%        0%       85%       85%       90%       90%       90%
Dof SewerageConnections           1000       1024      1048      1072      1096      1120      1144      1168
Population Served y Swrage Sys     133       136        139       143       146       149       153       157
% of Sewage Treated (Inc. lnflIUutio  0%      0%        0%       47%       47%       44%       44%       44%
QuantityofSewageperCapitaperC      0.12      0.15      0.16      0.16      0.16      0.17      0.17      0.16
Employees per 1,000 Connections    0.02      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.03      0.03      0.03      0.03
Financial Indicators:
Current Price Unless Noted (000.  16        1t"6       1M        1s"       119       2000      2001      2002
Operating Revenue                  927      2799       4122      7046      8103      9425     10009    12011
Op. Rev.+Stormwtr Contribution+Ot  927      2890       4221      8267      9403     10669     11533    13571
Opeting Expenses                   114       458        497      6107      6504      7173      7618      7802
Depreciabon                        461       461        461       461      481       1268      2075      2882
Operatin Income                    352      18so       3164       478      1138       984       316      1326
Net Income                         352      1971      2389        171       614       499      -103      1191
O+M.Oepreciation                   575       919        958      6568      6965      8441      9693     10685
OM+DebtSevice                      114       458       1171      7480      8194      8965      9435    11601
RateofRetumon NetFixedAssets      2.6%     15.1%     19.0%       1.4%     5.3%       1.4%     -0.2%      1.5%
Operating Ratio                    0.12      0.18      0.12      0.74      0.69      0.66      066       0.57
Working Ratio                      0.62      0.32      0.23      0.79      0.74      0.78      0.84      0.79
Debt Service Coverage Ratio         NA        NA       5.23      1 46      1.64      1.99      2.09      1.52
Debtl(Debt+Equrty)                 0.00      0.09      0.25      0.32      0.33      0.33      0.32      0.30
Current Ratio                       NA        NA        NA      12.11     12.92     13.77      4.46      5.12
# of Days of Accounts Receivable    NA      62.06     62.05     62.0      62.06     62.05     62.05     62.05
Capitd Expenditure                   0   485433    26061        35050     16969      5752      1557         0
Capisl Expenditure-Constant Pna      0      4610      2620      28220     12800      4080      1040         0
Contributon of Internal Cash to Inv    100.0%  48.6%  11.6%     2.3%      7.3%     39.7%    100.0%    100.0%
Contribution of Intemal Cash to Inve    82.9%  53.4%  20.8%     7.0%     16.4%     49.0%     79.9%    100.0%
Average Taniff (Yuanrm3)
Actual Billed Operatng Revenue    0.16      0.37      0.50      0.85      0.96      1.02      1 08      1.30
Op. Rev.4ncl. Stornwtr Tranrsfe   0.16      0m        0.11      1.00      1.13      1.17      1.24     1IA
Operating Revenue - Constant Pric  0.16     0.37      0.44      0.80      0.86      0.83      0.83      0.92
Average Cost per m' Sewage Disposl
Operating Expenses                 NA        NA        NA       0.74      0.78      0.77      0.82      0184
Operating Expenf-Constant Pn6      NA        NA        NA       0.59      0.59      0.55      0.55      0.53
O a M + 'Depreciatkin or DS (DSi   NA        NA        NA       0.10      0."       0.57      1.06      1.25
O & M + >Deprecation or DS (DSR-=1.3)-Co,    NA        NA       0.73      0.75      0.69      0.70      0.79
Deflator                           1 00      0.95      0.87      0.81      0.75      0.71      0.67      0 63
GOC_FNL.XLS



-174 -                      ANNEX 15
ANNEX 15: ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
A. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
1.    The Bank Group highlighted enhancing environmental protection and alleviating
infrastructure bottlenecks as two of the four areas of concentration under the China
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in June 1995. The Bank
Group's close collaboration with the Chinese government covers both the regulatory and
service provision  aspects of urban  environmental management.   The China:
Environmental Strategy Paper sector study led to an Environmental Technical Assistance
Project that assists NEPA in its efforts to find more efficient regulatory methods, improve
staff capabilities and bolster environmental monitoring. In addition to national regulatory
assistance, the Bank Group is currently involved in six urban environmental projects in
12 cities, which incorporate policy, financing and organizational strategies for improved
environmental regulation and service delivery at the provincial and municipal levels.
Another four ongoing projects involving 12 cities include related issues such as
municipal water supply and sanitation needs. The initial round of projects focused on
China's largest cities-Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin-and those located primarily in the
wealthier northeast and coastal provinces. Environmental pressures remain very high in
those areas and cooperation will continue, as with the recently appraised Second
Shanghai Sewerage Project and the Shandong Environment Project now being prepared.
While the recently approved Hubei Urban Environmental Project marks a shift toward
inland and medium-income areas in central China, the Yunnan Environment Project (and
that in Guangxi Province) further test the feasibility of policy and institutional solutions
in poorer provinces.
2.    Bankwide municipal management sector work (Urban Service Delivery: Finding
the Right Incentives) emphasizes the need properly to assign functional responsibilities
and link revenue to expenditures.  In China's case, environmental services are
appropriately provided at the municipal level, where a high percentage of government
revenue is also captured. China: Urban Environmental Service Management concludes
that the major failing in environmental services has been dependence on municipal
budget transfers to fund services, while greater reliance on user charges would be
affordable, induce resource conservation and create a more dependable income stream.
For that reason, increasing tariffs has been a major focal point of the policy dialogue in
this project. This responds, too, to a major finding in the OED review of Bank water and
sanitation projects (Water Supply and Sanitation Projects: The Bank Experience 1967-
1989), wherein physical performance was generally good, but sustaining financial
viability and overall sectoral development was less successful. Adequate sector revenues
have been so crucial to successful operation of these investments that the Bank now sees



-175-                      ANNEX15
the needed tariff structures as the major sign of municipal commitment and therefore asks
for initial adjustments to be made during project processing. The proposed project
follows this model.
3.    This project thus responds to Bank sector work and sector experience and CAS
objectives, first through an improved regulatory environment, reduction of current
pollution loads and protection of critical water resources and second through
commercialization of operating agencies and improved tariff policy and operating
techniques. The Bank's strategy flows from and supports China's Environmental Action
Plan and Agenda 21, which provides the basis for joint Government and Bank action in
the environmental sector, especially in regard to the urban environment. Finally, .the
provincial focus recognizes the effective decentralization of regulatory and investment
authority in China, and draws on local political power and commitment to induce wider
use of the solutions demonstrated under the project.
4.    This project supports provincial efforts to reduce pollution within the province,
especially within densely populated urban areas, through improving environmental
regulation and providing new models for the efficient organization, and financing of
urban environmental services and for industrial pollution control.  Specifically, the
project would support:
(a)   the more aggressive use of user fees to shift the burden of pollution
abatement to the polluter and induce waste minimization, and new
organizational forms for wastewater providers to allow improved
management tools and to help minimize the cost of abatement;
(b)   expansion of sewerage services, to reduce water pollution, within the
boundaries of Gejiu, Kunming and Qujing, and thus protect the urban
environment and the health of their people and those living downstream of
these cities;
(c)   improvements to water supply in the cities of Kunming and Qujing, to
improve the quality of supply and meet the needs of growing urban
populations;
(d)   the first municipal solid waste landfills meeting national standards in the
cities of Kunming and Qujing with consequent protection of local land and
water resources and flaring of landfill methane to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions and an improvement in solid waste collection and transfer;
(e)   abatement of two major industrial point sources of pollution affecting
Lake Dianchi in Kunming and an industrial pollution control revolving
fund to address less costly pollution abatement efforts and provide a model
for other such funds; and



-176 -                     ANNEX 15
(f)   the provincial and municipal EPBs in their efforts to implement more
effective regulatory instruments.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.    Project formulation across three cities and a large number of sectors presented a
major analytical challenge. Ideally, the allocation of investment should be based on
maximizing the net present value while fully incorporating environmental externalities.
This involves estimating the environmental damnage reduction that would result from a
wide range of possible interventions. Yet current methodologies do not allow quick or
inexpensive, but high confidence, estimates of the impact of interventions across such a
broad choice set. Early economic analysis suggested that investment in wastewater
treatment in the Lake Dianchi Basin would yield substantial returns in terms of averting
or postponing costly future investments in water supply. Project formulation therefore
concentrated on identifying projects that would meet this need in a least-cost way,
thereby maximizing their net present value.
6.    Also, during project identification, it became clear that Yunnan and its cities
needed substantial change in policy and institutional structures along the lines described
in the sector work reported in Chapter 1 (China:  Urban Environmental Service
Management). Policy problems included urban environmental services priced too low to
discourage waste generation or provide the financing needed to build, maintain and
operate services such as water supply and wastewater collection and treatment.
Governnent bureaus providing the services lacked the financial tools to develop effective
tariff strategies or the operating autonomy needed to encourage managerial innovation.
Gaps in environmental regulation and enforcement were also apparent. Therefore,
investment choices were made with a view toward maximizing the impact of policy and
institutional innovation within the province.
7.    Specific investment choices within sectors and cities responded to long-run
municipal government strategies to bring ambient environmental quality or service
standards up to national guidelines. In the case of augmented water supply in Kunming,
and the avoided damage to Kunming's water supply, explicit benefit analysis was
possible and undertaken. In Kunming, the fact that all wastewater discharges into Lake
Dianchi, which also serves as a primary water source for the city, permits a benefit
estimate to be made at a reasonably high degree of confidence. In that case, the cost of
doing nothing different from current practice will have an impact on lake water quality
that forces increased treatment costs and an early shift to new, and more expensive water
sources. Those costs serve as a proxy for part of the pollution damage and the proposed
investment to avert them cost far less than the damage. There are also adverse aesthetic,
health and production impacts that are additional to the increased water supply costs but
are very difficult to quantify with a similar degree of accuracy. The benefit estimates in
terms of averted costs are therefore biased downwards from true benefits. For the
wastewater investments in Qujing and Gejiu and the solid waste handling and treatment



-177-                       ANNEX15
investments in Kunming and Qujing, least-cost analysis to meet specified standards was
used. Based on that analysis, city leaders made investment decisions.
City and Sector Choices
8.    In urban environmental service provision, cities were included in the project based
on the size of the population potentially benefiting from improved services and
considering their value as models to other provincial cities. Yunnan has one very large
city, Kunming, with an urban population of some 1.2 million, and 10 smaller cities, the
largest of which is Gejiu with 215,000 people. After reviewing the potential investments
in some five provincial cities, three were selected for further project development.
Kunming was given the top ranking because of its size and the major water quality and
supply problems it faces. The other two cities are Qujing and Gejiu, which are of a size
and economic strength akin to most Yunnan cities and their experience under the project
will therefore be more readily transferred than that of Kunming.  The province
established a leading group headed by a vice-governor with members from the
environmental protection, planning and finance bureaus at the provincial and/or
municipal level, to review the existing situation and guide any decisions needed on scope
or administrative arrangements.
9.    Each of the selected cities had already prepared environmental improvement plans
that outlined priority service needs, both in terms of the type of service and area of the
city needing service. The plans highlighted the relative lack of sewerage and sewage
treatment within urban areas, with household and industrial wastewater discharging to
rivers and lakes rather than to sewer systems and treatment works, and the absence of
sanitary landfill sites for the safe disposal of solid waste and nightsoil. Further work has
confirmed the choice to extend sewerage systems and ensure treatment and to build
sanitary landfills as the next step in environmental protection. Additional water supply
needs had also to be met if growing urban populations were to have access to safe water
and further commercial and industrial investments be supported.
10.   The strategy for industrial pollution control builds on national and provincial
emissions control law and regulations. The change to "total load control" in 1996
represents a positive response by NEPA and the EPBs to the problems that can occur with
a concentration-based emission control system. For enterprises built before polluting
effluents were regulated, cash flow alone rarely meets the financing needs of process
changes or end-of-pipe treatment that will allow compliance with current effluent
standards. Pollution abatement investments must compete in China's plan-driven credit
market with investments typically offering much higher financial returns to sponsors.
Where banks are able to make loans outside of state-dictated credit plans, they seek high
and rapid return opportunities, a feature uncharacteristic of most pollution-abatement
schemes.
11.   Credit market constraints (described more fully in the China Department's 1995
Capital Market Sector Study (No. 14501-CHA) leave unexploited abatement



-178 -                        ANNEX 15
opportunities in economically and financially viable enterprises that currently have a high
pollution impact. Yunnan Province therefore sought to use part of the loan to fund such
investments. The Province agreed with the Bank on a selection process to identify the
highest-impact polluters, a process that has identified two chemical fertilizer plants for
process change investments that will increase profitability as they abate pollution. These
plants both discharge high levels of pollutants, particularly phosphorus, to Lake Dianchi,
and their cleanup is far less costly than providing municipal treatment services removing
the same mass of pollutants. To provide for such opportunities in smaller enterprises, the
province also established a pollution control loan fund, to be initially capitalized at $10
million, for which it requested Bank support. A number of industries have already made
proposals for investment in production improvements and wastewater treatment under
this fund and an appraisal process is being developed for prioritizing these investments
Organizational and Financing Alternatives
12.   Of the proposed investments, the solid waste will be managed by municipal
environmental sanitation sections, the water by existing municipally-owned enterprises,
the wastewater by newly-formed municipally-owned enterprises and the fertilizer plant
pollution abatement by the enterprises themselves.  In each case, the enterprises or
activities were judged unable to compete effectively for private financing at this stage in
their development, though institutional reforms under the project will help them attain
that goal in the future. None has a history of sufficiently profitable operation to attract
private financing.
13.   In the case of the water and fertilizer enterprises, the lack of profits can be
attributed to the fact that they continue to fall under a tightly-controlled output price
regime, while facing a largely deregulated input market. The fertilizer enterprises will
shift part of their production to unregulated markets, thus partially escaping the
regulatory burden. For water, the project commits the municipalities to regulating prices
such as to allow a positive return. The wastewater enterprises were created to provide a
managerial structure facilitating efficient operation, something absent in their previous
government bureau form. For wastewater, the municipalities have committed to a price
structure that results in break-even operations. Only solid waste remains a government
bureau operation. Here, the current collection operation works sufficiently well that
emphasis was placed on providing technical assistance to cost properly the operation and
allow adequate rates for commercial, industrial and other system users. In all cases, a
project goal is to help create improved service delivery at a reduced cost.
Wastewater Collection and Treatment
14.   Kunming.  Kunming discharges all its wastewater either directly or through
sewers to the rivers and canals which flow into Lake Dianchi. These rivers and canals are
therefore grossly polluted.  Domestic and industrial pollution, erosion and land
reclamation have resulted in the lake ecosystem changing to a turbid, eutrophying water
body, the Caohai (inner lake) being more badly affected than the Waihai (outer lake). See



-179 -                      ANNEX 15
map 27911. The water quality in the lake varies by area and season, but has deteriorated
to worse than Class V over much of the year, well below the level at which it should be
used as a drinking water source. The number 3 water treatment works was closed in
October 1994, in response to the quality deterioration. Output from the number 5 works
was reduced in August, 1995 due to these same problems. Nevertheless, the Waihai
supplies up to half Kunming's water in dry years, creating very strong environmental and
health reasons why Kunming's wastewater should be treated.
15.   The Lake Dianchi water quality study identified phosphorus as the limiting
nutrient for the eutrophication of the lake. The economic analysis therefore concentrated
on investments that would control that pollutant or allow adequate treatment of the
polluted water. The economic analysis of wastewater collection and treatment programs
generally presents challenging analytical problems on the benefit side. The range of
impacts, on amenity, health and commodity production uses, can be described but usually
not easily quantified. However, in this project Kunming's Lake Dianchi water use for
municipal supply creates a condition whereby pollution damage can be modeled and
impacts quantified with a reasonable degree of confidence. The analysis is expressed in
terms of the "Do Nothing More Scenario" (DNS) which is what would happen if nothing
more was done over the next 25 years than is currently being done, i.e., no changes to
current policies, plans and institutions and no further interventions to improve water
quality beyond the two municipal treatment plants now being constructed with nonproject
funds. Lake Dianchi is a receiving lake in which pollutants will build up fairly
predictably over time and this will have inevitable consequences for water supply, the
economy and environment and amenity of the area.
16.   If nothing more is done in Kunming than currently planned there are a number of
factors that will result in substantial future investment and costs:
(a)    With rising incomes, per capita water consumption is projected under DNS
to increase by 40 percent from 180 to 250 liters/day by 2020. Industrial
demand will also rise significantly. Agricultural demand will stay fairly
constant as the irrigated area is unlikely to increase.
(b)   Predicted population growth that will increase the urban population to 2.8
million by 2020, because of which annual renewable water resources of
300 m3 per capita will decline to 195 m3 per capita by 2020, leading to a
significant and increasing water deficit whether worked out in water
balance terms or in terms of potential supply and demand flows.
(c)   Storing water from wet years and reuse of water from Lake Dianchi will
remain the main means of balancing demands until new sources of water
are found. The use of Waihai water will increase particularly in drought
years.  Total demand for water from  Lake Dianchi is currently
251 million m3 per year and is forecast to rise to 332 million m3 in 2000.
3
It has the potential to supply up to 342 million m . However, the pressures



-180 -                       ANNEX 15
on the use of Lake Dianchi water will hasten the date at which lake water
will become unusable for domestic water purposes.
(d)   The switching dates among water supply sources are further affected by
the considerable intra- and interannual variations in precipitation and
runoff and by the need to balance water supply requirements against those
of flood control.  At present the majority of the storage capacity
(100 million mi3) of Songhuaba (which has good quality water) is for flood
control purposes which forces the use of increasingly poor quality Lake
Dianchi water for municipal water supplies.
(e)    Effluent entering the lake will rise substantially. At present, more than 80
percent of Kunming's effluent enters the lake untreated. Other sources of
pollution are lakeside industry (particularly fertilizer, pulp and paper,
pesticide factories and metal smelters), lakeside townships, and runoff,
particularly from mining and fertilizers. It is estimated that currently
781 tons/year of total phosphorus (TP) enter the lake and, if nothing more
is done than currently planned, this will increase to 1,146 tons/year by
2010 (see Table 1). The sources of these loads are known in some detail
and can be forecast under the DNS.
Table 1: TP LOADS TO LAKE DIANCHI UNDER DIFFERING PROJECT INTERVENTIONS
2010
1995       "Do Nothing
TP Load      but existing   YEP with      YEP with
(tons/year)    interventions    I mg/l TP la   0.5mg/I TP da
WAIHAI
Total P load to Waihai      557           652           427           373
% in relation to 1995       100%          117%           77%           67%
CAOHAI
Total P load to Caohai      224           279           216            175
% in relation to 1995       100%          125%           96%           78%
LAKE DLANCHI
Total P load                781           931           643           548
% in relation to 1995       100%          119%           82%           70%
/a Alternative effluent targets for wastewater discharges to Waihai.
(f)   the significant deterioration in quality of water of the Waihai over the last
10 to 15 years will continue at an accelerating rate. TP concentrations
(0.14 mg/l in 1994) have been forecast by the computer model of the
Waihai to increase to 0.30 mg/l in 2000, 0.40 mg/l in 2010 and nearly
0.50 mg/l by 2020 (see Annex 7, Figure 1). There are also significant
forecast increases in nitrate, dissolved organics and toxic heavy metals, but



-181-                       ANNEX 15
phosphorus concentrations are considered to be the most significant
limiting factor for water supply because of their effect on the levels of
algae in the lake.
(g)   the Waihai is already experiencing difficulties with water treatment and
the costs of treatment will further increase. All water treatment plants
will have to install dissolved air flotation (DAF) process to remove
algae (Water Treatment Plant No 5 already has to use this process).
The practice of adding chlorine to the raw water at inlet will increase
despite the dangers of tri-halo methane (THMs).  Later, more
sophisticated filtration and purification techniques will be needed, at
much higher cost. The costs of this increased treatment are summarized
in Table 2 and details can be found on the project files.
(h)   Later on in the period, the buildup of phosphorus in the Waihai will be so
great that the water will not be suitable for industrial uses forcing
industries to install water treatment plants. Some industries are already
treating industrial water. It is not anticipated that the deterioration of the
Waihai will have any adverse effects on agriculture. It may indeed benefit
from the increased supplies and increased nutrients.
(i)    The DNS will result in all the available water in Songhuaba being used for
domestic purposes and agricultural water being pumped up from Lake
Dianchi. This process has already started and is bound to continue if there
is no effort to save the lake.
Table 2: NET PRESENT VALUE (NPV) OF "Do NOTHING" SCENARIO
NPV of future costs 1996-2020
(Y million)
Type of Environmental Damage               12 % Time Discount Rate
Additional Domestic Water Treatment                       140
Additional Industrial Water Treatment                       8
Additional Songhuaba Augmentation Cost                    378
Water Augmentation from Outside Catchment               1,958
Costs to Agriculture from Water Shortage                  277
Total (Y million)                                    2,761
Gj)    There is a well-defined limit to the Songhuaba catchment (around 133
million m3/year without further investment, 163 million m3/year with



-182 -                     ANNEX 15
investment). Even with the diversion of water from agriculture and the
proposed investment, the reservoir will not be able to come near to
satisfying the DNS municipal water requirements without further
investments in other water sources..
(k)   From the present day to the date of importing water from another
catchment, there is a growing water deficit in the Dianchi catchment that
will inevitably result in reducing the amount of water for agriculture.
Under the DNS this will happen even if Songhuaba agricultural supplies
are completely replaced by pumping from Dianchi. The economic cost is
set out in Table 2. The result in Table 2 is most sensitive to the timing of
water augmentation from outside the catchment. If quality deterioration
slowed more than expected and that need were delayed, say, five years, the
NPV of that damage component would fall to Y 1,263 million and total
averted damage would fall to Y 2,066 million.
(I)    Water demand and supply and increasing pollution levels will dictate that,
from around 2005, Kunming will have to move to sources outside the
Dianchi and Songhuaba catchment for its main source of supply. The next
least-cost source that will satisfy DNS demands until the end of the
scenario period will involve a dramatic increase in both capital and current
costs. The source has been identified by Yunnan Water Conservancy
Bureau as the Yulong Reservoir at Zhangjiu River around 150 km from
Kunming. The conveyance (through open ditch and tunnel) and pumping
of this water and its treatment has been costed by project engineers at June
1996 prices and is entered in the DNS (Table 2).
17.   The result of doing nothing will be a very steep increase in the economic costs of
water, which will adversely affect the welfare of everyone in Kunming. Many living in
rural areas will face a continued shortage of irrigation water. Doing nothing will also
impose significant increased costs on some industries resulting in a loss of
competitiveness. The economic analysis has concentrated solely on additional water
supply costs because of their scale and ease of identification. The analysis has not
attempted to calculate other damages such as that to fisheries in the lake, health and
visual amenity or damage attributable to pollutants other than those that lead to the build
up of algae in Lake Dianchi. The wastewater project will also significantly reduce
suspended solids, heavy metals and biological oxygen demand (BOD) but it is not
possible to assess with sufficient accuracy the additional environmental damage reduction
that can be attributable to this. The damage estimate may therefore be considered as a
conservative estimate of the total amount of environmental damage that would result
from Do Nothing.
18.   The long-run objective of the Kunming wastewater project is therefore to ensure
the reduction or treatment of enough wastewater being generated in the urban area (both



-183-                       ANNEX15
industrial and nonindustrial) to maximize the net present value (NPV) of the investment.
This will be achieved through four integrated strategies:
(a)   constructing trunk sewers;
(b)   reticulating currently unscrewed areas;
(c)   constructing sewage treatment works (STWs);
(d)   maximizing connections to the system
19.   The decision concerning which basic wastewater treatment technologies to adopt
for sewage treatment, e.g., oxidation ponds or a variety of conventional, treatment
systems, was made in favor of the latter on the basis of the excessive land requirements
and costs associated with ponds designed for the climatic conditions in Yunnan. Two key
factors compared were the number and location of STWs and the detailed selection of
processes. The location of the STWs had already been approximately fixed by the
existing Sewerage Master Plan. However, other potential locations were also identified
and analyzed. The network layout has been determined by the topography, trunk sewer
minimization, location of STWs, and existing and proposed urban development.
20.   Thus, comparison of network layouts emphasized the utilization of existing
sewers and ensuring use of the most economical pipe size. Within the city center, the key
issue lay not so much with the network arrangement, but whether to convert the existing
combined sewers into a separate system. The latter will ultimately reduce treatment costs
as STW capacities can be limited as they will only treat sewage flows and not stormwater
flows as they do at present. The construction of a separate sewer system also has
advantages in that it reduces sewer size and should minimize pumping, especially in a
region with large seasonal rainfall variations. Nightsoil is still being collected and
disposed of to land, but this is gradually being phased out as the city develops.
21.   In STW design, the key selection factor was to achieve the most cost-effective
method for phosphorus removal, the pollutant of prime concern in the Dianchi Basin.
Secondary factors include nitrogen, BOD/COD and suspended solids removal. The
processes adopted are those believed to be the most efficient in achieving the phosphorus
objective without compromising the secondary objectives. In addition, the selected
processes have the advantage of being technologies already operating in China.
Dewatered sludge will be disposed of to one of the landfill sites being developed under
YEP. The alternative of agricultural use of sludge has not been pursued due to the lack of
a market for currently produced sludge and potential difficulties with contamination, as
shown in the existing STW. As the treatment options involved the treatment of different
quantities, the optimal solution required the valuation of benefits rather than least-cost
methods. The rate of return based on the implied benefits of removing phosphorus
derived from the "Do Nothing More Scenario" (DNS) for the selected option-a three-
stage, twin-return biological treatment strategy, was 51 percent higher than the three-
stage, single-return biological treatment alternative and 18 percent higher than the five-



-184 -                      ANNEX 15
stage biological treatment option. Chemically-assisted primary treatment alternatives
were considered during project development. However, they did not reduce pollution
sufficiently to maintain water quality below the danger zone for treatment.
22.   In summary, the Kunming wastewater project consists of:
(a)   two new STWs and related interceptor sewer system to serve rapidly
expanding urban areas;
(b)   upgrade and extension of an existing STW serving the city center;
(c)   interceptor sewer networks for the western area of Kunring;
(d)   city center sewer rehabilitation;
(e)   house connections;
(f)   discharge of treated effluent to rivers, canals and Lake Dianchi and sludge
to the new sanitary landfill sites.
This project will complete the construction of STWs in Kunming by providing all
drainage areas of the city with an STW.
23.   The present value over 25 years at a 12 percent discount rate of the Kunming
Wastewater Component at June 1996 prices including O&M costs and M&E replacement
is Y 1,163 million. It is currently forecast that YEP wastewater will maintain phosphorus
concentrations at present levels and within the limits where advanced treatment would not
be required.  However, the 95 percent confidence interval around the phosphorus
concentration estimate does cross into the danger zone for water treatment. Therefore, a
new treatment plant for the Lake is planned using advanced water treatment processes.
The treatment of Lake Dianchi water after YEP may have to use advanced processes
involving ozone and activated carbon. The cost of this has been estimated as Y 556
million in present value terms. When this cost is added to that of YEP wastewater, the
overall cost of the YEP strategy reaches Y 1,719 million. This compares very favorably
with the costs averted of Y 2,761 million (and with the low damage scenario of Y 2,066
million) and provides sound economic justification for the component.
24.   Qujing Wastewater. Qujing discharges its wastewater to the Nanpanjiang River
(headwater of the Pearl River), which also supplies industrial and agricultural water to
Qujing. Historically, the water was of sufficient quality to permit its use as a source of
potable water, but continued failure to capture and treat the city's wastewater has resulted
in serious downstream deterioration. The increasing pollution has reduced the water
quality to worse than Class V, which now limits its use even to industry and agriculture.
To achieve the stated water quality objective of Class IV for the Nanpanjiang River, full
sewage treatment would be required, so a least-cost analysis of treatment options was
carried out. Four main treatment options were considered:



-185 -                      ANNEX 15
(a)   oxidation ponds,
(b)   primary settlement followed by activated sludge,
(c)   extended aeration activated sludge, and
(d)   two-stage activated sludge.
25.   Despite the low operating costs, the large land requirements of oxidation ponds,
together with costs and environmental impact of using available land, led to this option
being rejected. Of the other three variations on the activated sludge process, the least-
cost option was identified as the extended aeration activated sludge at a cost (including
the sewerage system) of some Y 185 million. An evaluation was also made of an
alternative site for the STW, 5 km farther away from the city. This would have incurred
additional cost for the longer inlet sewer and for upgrading the access road (a total
additional cost of some Y 23 million on an overall sewerage cost of Y 38 million)
without any significant benefits except a lower land cost for the STW site. It was agreed
that the Qujing Master Plan should be revised to avoid further development immediately
adjacent to the selected STW site.
26.   The option of providing two STWs, the second to serve the new Western
Development Area after about the year 2010, was also considered. The additional costs
of the sewerage and pumping required to carry the flows to one site were shown to be
outweighed by the economies of scale from a single STW. The reuse of the effluent for
agriculture also favored the location of a single STW in the agricultural area. However,
the authorities judged the overall cost of the project to be still too high. To reduce the
cost of this phase, the decision was taken to provide as extensive a sewerage system as
possible at the outset to intercept all the sewage flows reaching the rivers running through
the city but initially to lower the discharge standard (with only removal of gross solids
and some BOD) in the first phase. This could be achieved by providing a reduced level
of treatment. Although this treatment will not meet the long-run requirements, it will
nevertheless result in significant environmental quality improvements. Two options to
achieve this were identified:
(a)   the first stage of the two-stage activated sludge plant, or
(b)   enhanced primary sedimentation using chemicals.
27.   The activated sludge plant was identified as the least-cost investment. An initial
concern that it would produce an unstable sludge has been responded to by adding a
sludge conditioning tank. A preliminary analysis of enhanced primary treatment was also
made and a detailed costing prepared for two chemicals-lime and ferric chloride. Total
costs were higher than those from the activated sludge plant and this option would cost
more to move to secondary treatment. Land is being set aside for the addition of
secondary biological treatment as soon as that is affordable.



-186 -                       ANNEX 15
28.   In summary, the Qujing project selected as the least-cost option for the project is:
(a)   an interceptor sewer system serving the north and east of the city in this
phase, but designed for the addition (after 2008) of an interceptor
specifically designed to serve the anticipated increased development in the
west;
(b)   a single STW  serving the city, this initial phase of treatment being an
intermediate activated sludge process, with disposal of the resulting stable
sludge to the new landfill site;
29.   Gejiu Wastewater. Gejiu discharges its domestic sewage to Lake Gejiu, which
receives wastewater from tin mining and processing and other industrial activities and is
also used as a balancing reservoir for industrial water supply. As a result, the water
quality of the Lake has deteriorated to worse than Class V. Excess water from the lake
(particularly in times of wet weather) is pumped out of the closed valley in which the city
is located into the Zhadian River to the north. Flooding of Gejiu City occurs when the
capacity of the existing pumping station is exceeded. To achieve the stated Class IV
water quality objective, the sewage and industrial wastewater must be prevented from
entering the lake. The considerable benefits to both lake and downstream river of
completely separating these from the flood water were identified during project
development. Principal options considered were based on the location of the STW, since
there are effectively no significant alternatives to the two interceptor sewers which will
pick up sewage flows around Lake Gejiu.
30.   Four possible STW sites were considered, two by the lake and two beside the road
north out of the city. The lakeside sites were rejected on the grounds that the high value
of land within the city would not make these the least-cost solutions. (Environmental
impact on the surrounding urban areas is a further reason for rejecting these, as was the
higher cost of treatment required to achieve the higher effluent standard for discharge to
the lake.) Of the two sites north of the city, Site 1 was preferred over Site 2 because of its
closer proximity to the city, requiring a shorter inlet sewer. The additional cost of the
inlet sewer to Site 2 would be Y 2 million for the extra 1 km required. The capital cost of
the sewerage and pumping stations for Gejiu is Y 40 million.
31.   The arguments on the treatment process to be adopted are the similar to those for
Qujing, with full treatment options being initially considered. As with Qujing, the
secondary treatment alternative was deemed unaffordable by the authorities. The desired
reduction in project cost was achieved by reducing the level of treatment provided in the
first phase while maintaining the extent of the sewerage system (thus ensuring that all
wastewater currently reaching Lake Gejiu will be collected and treated). An intermediate
sludge system with additional sludge stabilization was also chosen for the first phase of
treatment at Gejiu. Adjacent land has been reserved for the addition of secondary
biological treatment as soon as that is feasible. Despite the lower treatment level, Lake
Gejiu water quality will be greatly improved by discharging the treated effluent to the



-187-                       ANNEX15
Zhadian River and replacing the lost water in the dry season (if required) with high-
quality surface water from controlled discharges from local reservoirs. The risk of
flooding in the city will be greatly reduced.
32.   In summary, the Gejiu project selected as the least-cost option for the project is:
(a)   interceptor sewers around Lake Gejiu, with a sewage pumping station
lifting the flows to an STW on the north side of the city;
(b)   a parallel pumping system lifting floodwater from Lake Gejiu to the
Zhadian River;
(c)   a single STW  serving the city, the first phase of treatment being an
intermediate stage activated sludge system.
Water Supply
33.   Kunming. The Kunming Water Supply component was evaluated on a least-cost
basis to supply estimated demand and by the company average incremental cost of the
new supply with willingness to pay revealed through surveys and the recent price:
(a)   the extension of two existing Water Treatment Plants (WPT);
(b)   construction of a new WTP;
(c)   the extension of existing WTP No. I plus construction of a new WTP.
34.   Option 3 was both least-cost grounds and most robust to the most likely
alternative demand scenarios. All long run studies include the eventual importation of
water, the key being that the combination of effective water demand management and the
proposed projects, together with other interventions, should defer importation as long as
possible. Provided all potential water resources within the catchment are developed, the
indications are that there could be sufficient resources to meet the water demand up to the
year 2020 at 95 percent reliability. This involves continuing use of Lake Dianchi for
municipal water supply, albeit using advanced treatment processes, and therefore justifies
the investment to limit damage to the lake. It also clearly stresses the importance of
protecting the lake as a local source for future use for drinking water supply and in so
doing defer more costly interventions as long as possible.
35.   The raw water source of Songhuaba was selected because it is at present the least-
cost source and although the primary role of Songhuaba is for irrigation and flood
control, small increases in municipal supplies can be obtained at the lowest average
incremental cost. Yield modeling showed that with conjunctive use of Dianchi Lake
water, Kunming demands could be met from this source without further augmentation.
36.   Incremental water supplied under the project will be 65 million m3/year at full
development. It is estimated that some 500,000 new individual connections will be



-188 -                      ANNEX 15
provided mainly in the fast growing suburban areas of north, east and west of central
Kunming. The economic cost of this incremental supply has been estimated to be
Y 0.60/m3
37.   Two small willingness-to-pay surveys have been undertaken which indicated that
a substantial number of people would be prepared to pay that much or more for water.
The more recent study indicated that 72 percent of the respondents already served by
piped water would be willing to pay at least Y 0.60/m3. This study confirmed the results
of a 1993 survey in which 89 percent of the households were willing to pay at least
Y 0.72/m3 for current supply. The difference between these studies likely reflects their
methodological differences or small sample error rather than a shift in willingness to pay.
Kunming increased water tariffs to an average of slightly more than Y 0.60/mi3 in January
1996. The water company has seen no consumption decline, although this is the winter,
low demand, season and not until summer will it be possible to fully assess price
elasticity. Nonetheless, experience at current tariff levels, the willingness to pay surveys
and the new connection program all strongly support the conclusion that the net present
value of the investment is positive. Better estimates of the net present value would
require information about the demand cure when prices are above current levels, but that
information is lacking.
38.   Qujing. The Qujing water supply component was evaluated on a least-cost basis
to supply estimated demand. In Qujing's case, local groundwater and surface water
supplies have been fully exploited by the existing rural and urban users, so new supply
must come from either better use of the current system or new sources at a considerable
distance from the city. In this case, both options would be exploited.
39.   The current supply relies on three small reservoirs feeding three water treatment
plants. The treatment plant capacity totals 81,000 m3/d, but the distribution system
capacity reaches only 55,000 m3/d. Some 26,000 m3/d of potential supply therefore goes
unexploited in normal-weather years (dry-year supply of the reservoirs does not reach
treatment plant capacity). Distribution system investments can augment supply by the
26,000 m 3/d (or 47 percent), at a net present value of Y 0.44/m3 . This contrasts very
favorably with the Y 0.93/m3 1996 tariff. Using a conservative assumption that new
supply becomes available over 1999 to 2003; that only 50 percent of newly available
supply is demanded its first two years, rising to 70 percent over the remaining life of the
project; and using the 1996 tariff of Y 0.93/m3, rather than the higher real tariffs proposed
for later years, the distribution system investment realizes a 15 percent rate of return, or a
Y 4.42 million net present value.
40.   The distribution system expansion would primarily serve areas designed for new
industry and residences, areas now provided with all other infrastructure but the water.
Although Qujing's industrial and population growth has been rapid and is now
constrained primarily by water supply, the investment clearly will be most sensitive to the
offtake of treated water and to the availability of raw water (given drought year supply
problems). Sensitivity tests therefore concentrated on this issue, and the investment was



-189 -                       ANNEX 15
found to be quite robust. For example, even with only 35 percent capacity use in the first
five years of operation, rising to only 50 percent thereafter, the rate of return remains at 7
percent. Use would have to fall to only 30 percent of the new capacity over the life of the
project to drive the rate of return down to zero.
Solid Waste-Kunming and Qujing
41.   Initial choices for the solid waste management projects in both Kunming and
Qujing were based on an evaluation aimed at defining the most appropriate technologies.
A least-cost analysis of options was developed for the optimization of the key
components. The initial evaluation considered potential solid waste treatment and
disposal strategies including recycling, composting, incineration and gasification, and
landfilling. Recycling already plays an active role in each of the cities, capturing most of
the 5 percent of the municipal waste stream that can be profitably recycled, mainly glass,
plastics and metals. The industry is highly competitive, with a combination of state-
owned and private firms providing services and little scope for additional municipal
intervention.
42.   Composting, to recycle organic materials, has been tested in both Kunming and
Qujing, but there have been serious operational and environmental problems, costs have
been high and markets have not supported adequate sales.  Both incineration and
gasification have been shown in other cities with similar waste streams to be substantially
more costly than landfill. The current continuing significant use of coal in Kunming
gives the waste a low combustion value, over half the waste stream being inorganic. This
represents a major problem for both composting and incineration/gasification from which
the residues still require landfilling. Landfill was therefore chosen in both cities for the
disposal of municipal solid wastes.
43.   An evaluation of the collection system in Kunming showed the advantage of
developing two landfill sites to serve opposite sides of the city and significantly reduce
the haul distances and environmental impact. The identification and assessment of
sanitary landfill sites took into account factors including haul distance, life expectancy,
cost, access, land use, land acquisition and resettlement, cover material, ecology,
hydrogeology and potential reuse. Five potential sites were identified for Kunming.
44.   Acknowledging the difficulty in a area like Yunnan of finding a landfill site which
can meet all the impermeability requirements naturally, it was accepted that artificial
linings would have to be provided for at least some part of any landfill site chosen for the
two cities. However, the risk of earthquake damage to the liner and the potential for
groundwater contamination is small, there having been only 14 earthquakes in the region
of not more than 7 (on the Richter scale) over the last 500 years. The preferred sanitary
landfill sites for Kunming were identified as Hongshuitang and Baishuitang with a total
cost of Y 45.8 million and a life expectancy of 21 years. In a similar exercise for Qujing,
in which four sites were subject to a similar assessment, a single site, with a total cost of
Y 11.8 million in the first phase and a life expectancy of 19 years and located between the



-190 -                       ANNEX 15
city's two main urban centers (Qujing and Zhanyi), was chosen at Back Valley of Taihe
Mountain.
45.   In both cases, the least-cost site had, as one of the main decision criteria,
minimization of the joint cost of transport and land acquisition. Since land acquisition
cost correlates very strongly with resettlement impact, this criterion also tends to
minimize resettlement. Sanitary landfills must also comply with national standards,
which require leachate and gas collection. No attempt was made, therefore, to compare
the cost of including these with the damage which would ensue from their absence.
Given the long-run risks inherent in unprotected landfills, the need to provide leachate
and gas collection was accepted and additional impact evaluation was not carried out.
46.   Although solid waste collection and transfer vehicles and equipment have a
relatively short life, the transfer stations which form an integral part of the system have
much longer lives, and therefore need to be designed for flexibility to adjust to changing
situations. The analysis of the waste collection system therefore addressed both the cost
of collection and transfer equipment and the optimization of size, location and design of
small, medium and large transfer stations (STSs, MTSs and LTSs) within the city. Costs
of collection and transfer were analyzed and optimized using the UNCHS WAGS
Compactor Program for equipment ranging from tricycles to container trucks.
47.   Optimization of the numbers of collection vehicles showed that for Kunming the
ideal system should be one with a large number of STSs. Waste is carried direct from
them to the landfill sites in 8-ton containers. However, an evaluation of the land
acquisition and environmental impact aspects of the 35 STSs originally proposed
demonstrated the considerable problems of trying to locate a large number of transfer
stations of any size within the city. Particular environmental problems related to noise in
residential areas and to increased traffic movements during the night. On these grounds,
the decision was taken to limit the number of transfer stations in Kunming and thus build
only 15 STSs and to locate four MTSs in the areas of greatest environmental impact.
Sites for a further two MTSs were identified for future expansion. The evaluation
showed that there was no need at all for LTSs, because the time saving achieved would
not justify the additional capital and operating costs of the LTS and related vehicles.
48.   A similar exercise in Qujing showed that the least-cost system would be one with
five STSs in Qujing City and one in Zhanyi. No MTSs are required because of the short
haul distance to the landfill site.
49.   The key area for sensitivity analysis is in the anticipated changes to the nature of
the waste over the lifetime of the two schemes. The feasibility study for solid waste
demonstrated that the density of the waste is expected to fall by 15 to 20 percent over the
next 10 to 15 years as conversion from coal to gas proceeds in the two cities. In
Kunming, the existing STSs already serve residential and commercial areas where gas
conversion has taken place and so little change is expected for them. New STSs and
MTSs should be designed to allow the use of deeper containers in the future to maintain



-191-                        ANNEX 15
an optimum load capacity for the lower density wastes. The density of the waste will
remain quite high for the foreseeable future, so there is no advantage in the use of
compactor trucks for waste collection during the next 10 to 15 years. These are not
therefore being provided. In the MTSs, the waste loaders can be used to achieve a small
increase in compaction (by applying pressure during loading). The slightly increased
need for additional capacity can be met by adjusting shift hours for the vehicles.
50.   Operational flexibility will be built into waste collection management to allow in-
situ decisions on the need to take waste either to local STSs or to go direct to MTSs
depending on traffic levels and thus save on waste handling and costs. The increasing
need to formalize waste recycling processes as the standard of living in the city rises can
be accommodated by the short-run modification of the collection system and vehicles, but
if any changes in waste quantities reaching the landfills are likely, they can be expected to
decrease, simply extending the landfill life.
Industrial Pollution Control
51.   The industrial pollution control component has three subcomponents, two
involving funding for the two fertilizer factories on Lake Dianchi (ranked as the most
environmentally damaging enterprises on the lake) and the third a pollution control fund
targeting small investments and small-scale enterprises. The first two components were
appraised by the Bank/IDA.
52.   The environmental pollution control subloans facility remains to be established.
The goal of the fund is to serve as a model for the operation of the municipal and county-
run pollution control funds capitalized though pollution levy fees. These are revolving
finds, but to date have lacked effective management, targeting and credit policies. The
fund will seek to minimize management costs, while effectively recycling loans. The
fund will bear credit risk because the bank managing it will play a solely agent role.
Loans will be made at a rate of no less than 150 basis points above the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, the margin to be determined by
operating costs and credit risk assessment. The Fund will also face a history of pollution
levy fees as grants increasing the credit risk. The fund will respond to these risks in two
ways, first by careful financial analysis and conservative lending, and second by
concentrating on smaller loans with relatively short repayment periods.
53.   The second part of the Industrial Pollution Control strategy involves direct
investment in two chemical fertilizer plants producing a high proportion of phosphorus
load in Lake Dianchi. The fertilizer factories contribute 16 percent of total phosphorus
(TP) discharge to the Lake and 73 percent of industrial phosphorus loads. The two
factories are Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory and Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer
Factory.
54.   Existing wastewater treatment facilities at the factories are inadequate for present
loads and frequent breakdowns further reduce treatment. In a attempt by the Central
Government to hold down agricultural input prices, the fertilizer industry is subject to



-192 -                      ANNEX 15
strict price control which forces many of them to operate at a loss, made up through
government subsidies.  However, subsidies do not cover adequate operation and
maintenance funds which exacerbates operating pressures on the waste treatment systems.
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory
55.   Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory is owned by the Heavy Industry and
Chemical Industry Bureau of Kunming Municipality and is located close to the
southeastern shore of Dianchi Lake. Its products are nitrogen and phosphorus based with
potential capacity of 185,000 tons per year which includes ammonia, phosphoric acid,
nitrogen phosphorus potassium (NPK) and ammonium carbonate (NH4HCO3). The
Factory sustains losses of approximately Y 10 million per year on capital of Y 90 million.
Overall, it discharges 4.83 million m3/year containing 35 tons/year of total phosphorus
(TP) and 555 tons/ year of ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) to the Waihai of Lake Dianchi.
56.   The Yunnan Chemical Industry Design Institute feasibility study proposed
production changes including a major investment in a new 80,000 tons/year H2SO4 plant,
which will allow continuous operation and reduce pollution problems arising from
current stop-start operations.  Recovery of raw materials from wastewater will be
increased and recycling of water will improve. The majority of the Y 54 million
investment will help fund the new sulfuric acid (H2SO4) Plant. The remaining sum will
be used in the following way:
(a)   modification to NH3-N production processes;
(b)   modification to monoammonium phosphate (MAP) and phosphoric acid
(H3PO4) production processes;
(c)   modification to water recycling system,
(d)   treatment for MAP and H3PO4 wastewaters,
(e)   modification to water supply system, to drainage,
(f)   general drawing and transport,
(g)   treatment of ammonia wastewater,
(h)   further modification to NH3-N production processes, and
(i)   other capital construction.
The proposed improvements will reduce wastewater discharge to Lake Dianchi of TP
to nearly zero and ammonia to 10 tons/year.



-193 -                      ANNEX 15
57.   Currently the output of the plant is sold at an average of over 50 percent less
than the border price of these products. This adversely affects the financial viability of
the firm and the financial viability of the incremental project because without price
control the firm could put up its prices to about this extent (plus or minus any
differential transport costs between the firm, customer and port) and still remain
competitive. However the firm also receives competitive advantage from subsidized
and controlled prices of its inputs. An initial attempt to adjust the rates of return for
both these effects suggests that the rates of return to the project would not be
significantly higher that those above if the company was operating in a regime of
uncontrolled prices. In fact, the project itself will move the company into a less
controlled environment as the new processes and products are less subject to price
control.
58.   The economic rates of return for the proposed investment were calculated on a
base core of 83 percent capacity utilization. To date, plant sales have been construed
by input shortage, rather than lack of output demands. Relief of the input constraint
should allow full production (which, by industry standards in China is 300 days per
year). The sensitivity analysis focused on the capacity utilization issue, on a proxy for
both operational problems, and lack of member demand. It also looked at input price
shifts in sulfur, one of the key inputs The results of the analysis are given below.
Table 3: PROJECTED ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN TO THE KUNMING
FERTILIZER FACTORY (%)
Utilization rate                Price changes
83%          70%         60%         Sulfur price up 50%
ERR                 56           45           36                 37
Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory
59.   Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory is owned by the Provincial Chemical
Industry Department and is located approximately 69 km from Kunming and southwest
of Dianchi Lake. Its major outputs are more than 24 phosphate ore-based products
weighting more than 300,000 tons per year including phosphate and superphosphate
fertilizer, phosphate chemical products and other products. At present, the Factory owns
fixed assets of Y 150 million and employs 2,900 people. It maintains a modest profit of
Y 3 million per year or a return of 2 percent on capital. It currently discharges 4.1 million
m3/year containing 504 tons/year of suspended solids, 56.5 tons/year of total phosphorus
and 22.9 tons/year of fluoride to the Waihai of Lake Dianchi.



-194 -                      ANNEX 15
60.   The Yunnan Chemical Industry Design Institute feasibility study assessed three
engineering options on the basis that they minimized the quantity of effluent discharged.
The options all involved process and product changes. No options were considered for
the water treatment plants. The proposed production changes will shift the composition
of final products away from certain phosphate products (calcium magnesium phosphate)
to high-value food-grade phosphates. Two new water treatment plants are proposed to
increase recycling of water. The major portion of the Y 75 million investment will be
placed in:
(a)   modification of the 40,000 tons/year H2SO4 Plant,
(b)   two-stage precipitation wastewater treatment facility and
(c)   production facilities for food-grade compounds.
61.   Other improvements are:
(a)   modification to the existing production processes,
(b)   expansion/modification to existing treatment facility,
(c)   modification to water recycling system,
(d)   segregation of drainage,
(e)   discharge pipeline,
(f)    water supply station and
(g)   importation of technical know-how.
62.   After the investment in production processes, overall TP discharge will decrease
from 56.5 tons/year to 0.84 tons/year.
63.   Similar to the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory, economic analysis was
performed on Kunyang with and without the proposed investment. Sensitivity analysis
was performed by varying output and observing its effects on the economic internal rates
of return (ERR). The results of the analysis are shown in Table 4.



-195 -                      ANNEX 15
Table 4: PROJECTED ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN TO THE KUNYANG
PHOSPHATE FACTORY (%)
Utilization rate                Price changes
83%         70%          60%         Sulfur price up 50%
ERR                 33           29           24                 37
64.   Currently the output of the plant is sold at an average of between 30 and 40
percent less than the border price of these products.  This adversely affects the
financial viability of the firm and the financial viability of the incremental project
because without price control the firm could put up its prices to about this extent (plus
or minus any differential transport costs between the firm, customer and port) and still
remain competitive. However the firm also receives competitive advantage from
subsidized and controlled prices of its inputs. An initial attempt to adjust the rates of
return for both these effects suggests that the rates of return to the project would not be
significantly higher that those above if the company was operating in a regime of
uncontrolled prices. In fact, the project itself will move the company into a less
controlled environment as the new processes and products are less subject to price
control.
65.   Overall, the proposed investment in the two plants would upgrade their
production processes, change some of the final outputs and allow profitable and
cleaner operations. Phosphorus discharge will drop from 93 tons per year to below 2
tons. The amount of other pollutants will also drop. As the preferred options undergo
further review, the economic and financial analysis will be amended appropriately.
Sensitivity analysis on the two investment indicated that Kunming Chemical is more
robust than Kunyang Phosphate.
C. AFFORDABILITY
66.   The affordability issue arises only with the water and wastewater components of
the proposed project. The industrial pollution interventions will proceed only if the
enterprises can demonstrate that they will remain financially sound after the investment.
Solid waste charges will rise only for industrial and commercial users of the new
landfills. Affordability of the new water and wastewater systems was tested against
current consumption patterns and average income of the poorest 10 percent of the urban
population in the three cities. The proposed first-year tariff would consume an average of
less than 2 percent of the income of the poorest 10 percent of the population, with
wastewater fees based on 80 percent of water used. Indeed, because the poor are less
likely than other households to have water piped to the, even the 2 percent figure
represents an upper bound.



-198 -                                      ANNEX 15
Risk                          Possible Cause                Mitigation Measures            By Whom /a
Institutional
Industrial pollution control  * Lack of capacity to enforce   * TA to strengthen EPBs     YEPB. KEPB, QEBP, GEPB
measures not effectively        regulations                   monitoring and enforcement  Polluting Industry
enforced                      * Technical constraints within  * Pollution Level Collection
factories (weak process      Improvement Action Plan
control, outdated technology) * Yunnan Environment Fund to
* Lack of incentives to encour-   support PP/PC
age waste minimization
Gaps and/or overlaps in       * No regulatory agency for    * Define clear responsibilities   KMG, YEPB/KEPB
implementing and regulatory     domestic solid waste and      for implementation and
agencies                        stormwater                    regulation
Lack of enforcement]          * Fragmented responsibilities   * Combine all EPB monitoring  KEPB
development control             for pollution control in Lake    and pollution control function
Dianchi Basin                in Basin (TA to support
rationalize)
/a Legend:
GEPB      -  Gejiu Environmental Protection Bureau
CMG       -  Gejiu Municipal Govemment
GWSDC  -  Gejiu Water Supply and Drainage Companv
KDC       -  Kunming Drainage Company
KEPB      -  Kunming Environmental Protection Bureau
KFB       -  Kunming Finance Bureau
KMESS   -  Kunming Municipal Environmental Sanitation Section
KMG       -  Kunming Municipal Govemment
KPDI    -  Kunming Planning and Design Institute
KPUB    -  Kunming Public Utilities Bureau
KWSC    -  Kunming Water Supply Company
QCAL    -  Qujing City Appearance Committee
QEPB      -  Qujing Environmental Protection Bureau
QMESS   -  Qujing Municipal Environmental Sanitation Section
QMG       -  Qujing Municipal Govemment
QWSDC  -  Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company
YEPB      -  Yunnan Environmental Protection Bureau
Long-Term Strategic Risks
71.   Increase Environmental Pressures. Rapid economic and population growth in
the Dianchi Catchment may simply exert too much pressure on available water and land
resources, and the emergent planning and environmental controls may not be able to cope
with this. Furthermore, the degree of ecological integrity and carrying capacity of the
environment are key parameters which will determine the level and intensity of urban and
rural development in the catchment but many of these are unknown at present. Increased
environmental pressures are from the following:
(a)    Policy Conflicts I-Inappropriate Resource Pricing. The underlying
causes of a number of environmental problems in the Dianchi Catchment
are in part a product of policies operating at the national level, especially
as they relate to resource pricing and agricultural support policies, such as
price   controls  on   fertilizer  supply.              The   longer-term    transition   to
sustainable development will require changes at the national level to
resource pricing and agricultural development objectives and plans.
(b)    Policy Conflicts II-Going for Growth. Other areas of potential conflict
include the push for economic growth and need to protect the
environment. In the short run it is tempting to "go for growth" and then



-199 -                     ANNEX 15
return to the task of cleaning up, rehabilitating and protecting the
environment. This strategy is very risky and is unlikely to be successful
given the existing precarious position of water resource shortages and
degradation.  The latter will almost certainly put a brake on future
development, and thus undermine future income and employment growth,
if no pollution control and water conservation measures are implemented
immediately.
(c)   Rapid Growth in Rural Areas. Increases in TVE and other rural-based
activities in the catchment area will increase the demand for scarce water
resources and increase pollution loads. Rural-based activities are the most
difficult to control as they are currently outside the urban master plan
areas. This threat principally relates to Dianchi Lake (control apply in the
Songhuaba Reservoir area).
(d)   Rapid growth of Kunming. Population growth (including the floating
population in the urban and peri-urban areas) will lead to intensified
competition for land and water while at the same time increase pollution
loads. A key risk here is that the pace of urban development exceeds the
financial and institutional capacity of Kunming Municipal Government
(KMG) to implement urban environmental service improvements and
pollution control measures.
72.   Mitigation measures designed to mediate or avoid these risks include
strengthening the development planning system, improving resources pricing, and
improving the provision of environmental services provision. A key focal point of the
YEP is to strengthen the planning and provision of environmental services.
Complementing these initiatives are broader planning proposals in DEAP, which are
aimed at providing effective tools for regulating development in the Lake Dianchi and
Songhuaba Basins. The IPC Components of the YEP and DEAP, coupled with improved
resource pricing and pollution charges, are also designed to support industry and
introduce pollution prevention/pollution control measures. The objectives for managing
development include limiting the scale of growth to the resources available to support it.
Institutional Risks: Failure to Manage Environmental Pressures
73.   Increasing environmental pressures necessitate that institutions must have the
capacity to manage these pressures. Environmental management in the catchment is
marked by weak and fragmented institutions, lack of clear lines of authority and conflict
and lack of cooperation among institutions at all levels. To date there has been a
reluctance to enforce regulations and make polluters pay. There will be an overriding
need for cooperation and coordination among institutions specifically responsible for
environmental protection and development control around Lake Dianchi and the
Songhuaba Reservoir. A critical component of the success of the YEP and DEAP is the



- 200 -                                      ANNEX 15
enforcement by Yunnan Provincial Government (YPG), KMG and the KEPB of the
existing and enhanced environmental protection measures and regulations.
Financial Risks
74.       There  are  a  number  of longer-term   financial risks  to  the  project.   There  is
uncertainty regarding the state of municipal finances. The major concern here is the
extent of off-budget and contingent liabilities incurred by KMG and other municipal
governments and their impact on the affordability of the YEP at the municipal level. It is
important that there is no delay in accessing funds in support of the project and
complementary investments required to support overall environmental improvement in
the Dianchi Lake Basin.
Table 6: LONG-TERM STRATEGIC RISKS
Possible                          Mitigation
Risk                           Cause                             Measures                        By Whom
Environmental
Environmental capacity         . Standards not appropriate to meet * Control of growth within the
exceeded-accelerated decline    specific lake requirements         Basin-DEAP and Water
of Lake Dianchi                * Unplanned industrial develop-     Resources Master Plan
ment in Basin (TVEs)-planning  * Limit development in Basin to
failures                          those industries which are
* Failures to control point source  clean and not water using
pollution-lake of enforcement of * Decentralize development and
standards                         relocate major water users and
polluters to outside of Basin
Decline of Songhuaba          * Rapid redevelopment of existing  * Rural sanitation component of
Reservoir water quality         settlements without adequate       YEP to initiative improved
sanitation measures-planning      planning and environmental
failures                          management
aChanges in cropping practices    . Enforce Catchment Protection
leading to possible runoff prob-  Strategy
lems
* Improper disposal of solid waste
Financial
Off-budget & contingent        * Uncertain-possible liabilities    * Improve financial resource  1. KMG, KDC, KWSC,
liabilities limit financial      incurred through support of SOBs   mobilization of environment    KFB.
capacity                         and noncore activities            service providers (utilities);   2. KDC, KWSC,
TA packages A,B,C            3. KDC, KPDI
* "Ring Fence' utilities and
make financially independent
. Possible assistance to local
govemments to improve
financial management (this is
outside the present scope of
YEP)



-201-                       ANNEX 16
ANNEX 16: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Report on Provincial, Prefectural, Municipal and County Financial Projections Fiscal
Year 1992 to 2005 (On-Budget).
2. Report on Water and Wastewater Companies' Operational and Financial Projects,
1993 to 2005.
3. Termns of Reference for Consultants' Services-Package A.
4. Terms of Reference for Consultants' Services-Package B.
5. Feasibility Study Report of Yunnan Environmental Management System, by Yunnan
Provincial Environmental Project Consulting Services, October 1995.
6. Environmental Assessment Report, by Yunnan Institute of Environmental Sciences,
February 1996.
7. Addendum to Environmental Assessment Report, by Yunnan Institute of
Environmental Sciences, March 1996.
8. Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action Plan, by Yunnan Environment Project
Consulting Services, April 27, 1996.
9. Initial Report of Ecological Survey of Dianchi Lake, by Yunnan Biological Resource
Development Institute of Yunnan University, May 1996.
10. The Yunnan Environment Project Environmental Monitoring and Data Management
Component-Needs Assessment and Upgrading Plan-Final Report, by CANREDE,
Inc., March 25, 1996.
11. Environmental Action Plans, Submitted by Yunnan Provincial Government, May 9,
1996:
* Dianchi Environrmental Action Plans
*  Gejiu Environmental Action Plans
* Qujing Environmental Action Plans
*  Industrial Pollution Control Environmental Action Plans



- 202 -                     ANNEX 16
* Yunnan Environment Project Implementation Agencies Action Plan
* Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
*  Management Regulation Methods on Environmental Pollution Control
Subloans
*  A Notice of Implementation of "Time-Bound Enhancement of Yunnan
Pollution Levy Action Plan"
* Alternatives for Kunming Pesticides Factory Pollution Control and
Proposal
* A Report on Integrated Pollution Control Alternatives and Action Plan
for Yunfeng Paper Mill
*  Proposal on Integrated Wastewater Control for Kunming Iron & Steel
Corporation.
12. The following reports prepared by DRA Consultant-Montgomery Watson in
association with GHK/MRM International, Hunting Technical Services, Severn Trent
Water International, March 1996:
* Introduction
* Project Background
* Project Rationale
* Project Description
* Project Implementation
* Project Finance
* Project Justification
* Project Risks
* Annexes A to P.



iBRD 27911
RUSSIAN      'iAohe
FEDERATION                                                  CHINA                                                                               a ] '
4,w   --    ,  -.-.-,~ i         ,         '---,,                    DIANCHI LAKE BASIN
,-   MONGOLIA   t                                         *   PROPOSED WATER TREATMENT PANTS                                                       i'
S .                                    E PROPOSED WATER SuPPLY UNE
-. -.  rycC..<yt~PROPOSED WASTE WATER TWATMENT PLAnTS                                     *  Horgs
OJE  v -                                            3 H ; Sg  X r   oF  PROPOSED SANWARY LANDEIU
( N~                            tRRA                        A *       .   , 'PROPOSED SIMAU TOWN SANTATONP  J    A
- (                                      *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iNDSTELTL PLANTS
C\j CF n ,Z, r KOALA                                                                                              /  INURLPU9S { 
CATCKMENT ROUNDARY                                                   No  /
D                                     -- RrV~~ESERS(                  __
K nit                                   0    SELECTED TOWNS
URBAN AREAS                                                                                   Daibaoia4
I  I  I I I            I                      \KKUItMING EKU N
-                                                0    5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0                                          A.
KILOMETERS                   JT Ar AQ  No I*73
LAO P                                                                                                                                    HUNSSN\ -  -2  S
CHINA                      105                                                           uaUan 
\  0  t   t CHINA   'C'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4  :;/    <,5                                      ,>                             Bol~~~~~~~~~~~~B0shuiTongfl
YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                  /
3 tr:ia     PROJECT CflES                                           Anning
-~~~~~~~~~~~                   -, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MMN RNDounon
-*   h1P         -                              -. \  /    :     !.A STEEL PLANT
*eS9^L    t    ,! \    SICHHUAN       ..                          \  J                                                                            o Chenggong
)V   O<L~ J!\J  Kv d     GUIZHOU                                                                          a,1  :-            .   B               0                  1
0                                                                                         ul~~~~~~~  S
; o     Q iu    .H.                                        /
GUANGXI                           TPAR Mg[N-
d!  p    FLE                 OKq on                ,,                                          /~O
jlorng       S   r                su           W                :1~'._                       /                                                                             ,
0~~~~
MYANMAR
KUNAMNOCSTAACAL
S      >1   oJ4ws -       s               VIETNAM                                  FERTILIZER PLANT                        FERTLIZER PlN
0  50  100 150C          -   .             / J                                                            -                                                           /nning
IEO  I IER                                      PROIRCI CMTESJIfIT
KILOMETERS                                     0  SELECTED lON S
  P(3 FROCE CFALw.
- 20~) '''    ~    'LAO P.D. R.   -                                                                                                                  vFRS  Jt.
NJ '* _              /                                  PREFCtURE SOuNDATIES                                                                           -                     nA w  1 C.
i%     THAILAND                                    - .       A _   - IRNSTCA  OU'NEA"IES
'C _'_                                                             1'
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4PW









IMAGING
Report No:       15361 CHA
Type: SAR



