YEP COORDINATIVE LEADING GROUP
YUNNAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT OFFICE
Yunnan Environmental Project
ADDENDUM TO
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORT
March 1996
Yunnan Institute of Environmental Sciences
in assodation with
Montgomery Watson
GHK/MRM International   IFI
Hunting Technical Services   FILE  C_ _i
Severn Trent Water International
under assignment from
Overseas Development Administration



CONTENTS
page no.
I.:troduction                                                                     I
Issue No. I Kuumning and Qujing Solid WVaste Landfills                             I
Issue No. 2 Selection of Wastewater Treatmnent Processes for Kumning              2
Issue No.3 Water Demand Management                                                5
Issue No. 4 Review of Alternatives                                                5
Issue No. 5 Water Quality Data for Lake Dianchi                                  I I
Issue No. 6 Ecology of Lake Dianchi                                              11
Issue No. 7 The Fisheries of Lakie Dianchi                                       15
Issue No. 8 Industrial Pollution Control Investments                              18
Issue No.9 Water Quality Model                                                   21
Issue No. 10 Beneficiaries of YEP                                                24
Issue No. I I Implementation of YEP                                              28
Appendix I Preliminary List of Key Variables to Lake Dianchi Ecosystem Recovery
Appendix 2 Data on Lakle Dianchi Fish Fauna and Catches



ADDENDUM                                                                EA REPORT
Introduction
The Environmental Assessment (EA) Report for the Yunnan Environment Project (YEP) was
submitted to the World Bank in February 1996. Following its review by the World Bank. a number
of issues requiring clarifiration were identified. Furthermore, as a result of ongoing development of
the sub-components of the YEP, other aspects of the project were also finalised.
This Addendum to the EA Report therefore addresses the issues raised by the World Bank and
provides further information on other aspects of the YEP which have now been agreed.
Issule No I - Kunmwr' and QXfin, Solid Waste Landfls
The EA Report provides few details on the environmendal mitigation measures to be employed
at the three landfil sites. tw  in Kzmming. one in Qaiing. More detailed information is
required on the linersystem, leachate control and teatment and offsite water management.
Reference should be made to Sections 3.4.3 and 3.5.4 of the EA Report.
Containment
The landfill designs for both the Kunming and Qujing Solid Waste projects have progressed to the
detail design stage and the preliminary proposals have been reviewed. Containment and removal of
leachate are ack-nowledged as the most important objectives of a landfill site.
At all three landfills, containment will be achieved by an appropriate combination of impermeable
membrane and clay from the site. Further geotechnical tests are to be carried out over the site areas to
confirm the precise extent and nature of the clay available on each site. This in turn will permit
determination of the areas of impermeable membrane which are required. This will be placed where
the clay layer is too thin or where voids are to be filled with a soil-cement mixture. Only clay with a
field impermeability of 10'7 cm/s will be used without a liner. Where the clay is not suitable, a single
or double impermeable membrane will be used as appropriate, each membrane being placed over
600mm of clay. The membrane will be of HDPE to an appropriate international standard like ASTM.
Leacrate Generation and Treatment
To minimise the generation of leachate, surface water will be diverted around the landfill sites by
temporary and permanent peripheral drains, one of which has already been installed at Hongshuitang
to keep water from entering the landfill as run-off from adjacent areas. As far as possible, the sites
will be filled from the top down so as to minimise the entry of stormwater into the leachate collection
system and into the landfill.
Average annual rainfall in Kunming is 1,W07mm, 85% of which falls in the period May to October.
Annual average evaporation is 2,120mm. Leachate will be collected in perforated pipe drains with
access for internal cleaning byjetting.. A 300mm continuous gravel drainage blanket will be provided
to carry the leachate to the drains. The leachate will be collected in a leachate pond with a volume of
24,000 m3 and treated by recirculation through the landfill.
Disposal of leachate will be by way of irrigation on the site and later also on completed landfill.
Typical leachate production at all sites is about 10% of rainfall, and annual leachate on an area of 30
pageI of 28



Addendum
mu (2 ha) would therefore be 20,000 mi. This will increase as morm of the site is filled. The design of
the drainage system will ensure that leachate short-circuiting does not occur. Recirculation also has
the advantage that it helps speed up refuse degradation. There will be no net outflow of leachate from
the site.
In the early years, the leachate quantity will be small and easily manageable. Leachate quantity and
quality will be monitored and additional treatment and disposal capacity provided when needed.
Should further treatment be required, it is likely to be by aeration of the leachate pond. However,
recirculation may well be sufficient to ensure satisfactory disposal. After final capping, the annual
quantity of leachate will reduce. The leachate quality will also slowly improve when the process of
waste stabilisation is well advanced.
Average annual rainfall in Qujing is 950mm, 85% of which falls in the period May to October.
Annual average evaporation is 2,130mm. Leachate will be collected in perforated pipe drains with
access for internal cleaning byjetting. A 300mm continuous gravel drainage blank-et will be provided
to canry the leachate to the drains. Initially, the leachate will be collected in a leachate pond with a
volume of 24,000 m' and treated by recirculation through the landfill. In due course, the leachate
pond is expected to be connected to the city's sewage treatment works, where its impact on the design
loads will be minimal.
|i is not clear why the specfic approachesfor wastewater treatment were selected as they were.
It is clear, however, that phosphoas removal is a primary objecrive  Col this not be
accomplished in the primary stage using chemical treatment? What other methods are under
consideration for reducing the inflows ofphosphorus to Lake DianchZ in particular from non-
point sources? What about the use ofphosphate-free detergnts?
Reference should be made to Section 3.4.1 of the EA ReporL
Wastewater Discharge Standards
The philosophy for the design of the sewage treatment works in Kunming is based on the discharge
effluent into the Waihai and Caohai via a number of watercourses. The Waihai is one of the city's
primary water resources and is suffering from increasing pollution and eutrophication (excessive
nutrients and most probably phosphorus). The watercourses draining to the Waihai and Caohai have
little base flow (hence there is no dilution of treated effluents) and are used all year round as sources
of irrigation water and also for a variety of industrial uses. The relevant Enviromnental Quality
Standards (which define Class II IV and V surface waters) and Effluent Discharge Standards (for a
Grade I discharge to a Class III surface water) defined in the Integrated Wastewater Discharge
Standards are summarised in Table No I on the following page.
The criteria defined in the Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standard document are maximum
allowabie concentrations (MACs). With the very limited (frequently zero) dilution available within
the local watercoumses, the required effluent discharge standards can be considered to be equal to the
EQSs. From a design point of view, the average effluent quality should be about 25% of the MAC
(and the 95 percentile about half of the MAC) although from a technological standpoint the current
state of the art does not provide means to achieve the EQS-based standards for BOD, COD and TP
page 2 of 28



EA Report
without excessive cost, i.e. microfiltration plus chemical tratnent Thus, a set of standards has been
adopted (which are to be complied with on a 95 percentile basis). These are considered to be
appropriate, technically achievable without excessive cost and relate to the National Standards.
Table No 1 Water and Effluent Quality Standards
Maimum Allowable Concentration (mg/1)        Effluent Standard for
Kunming STWs (mg/l)
GB8978-8   GB3838-88  GB383888  GB3838-88          Compliance on a
Grade I    EQS Class  EQS Class   EQS Class          95%ile basis
discharge to    mI          IV           V
Class M
BOD            30            4           6          10             15
COD           100           15          20         25              n/s
SS             70           n/s        n/s         nIs             15
TN             n/s          21          22         22      -        12
TKN       15 as NH3N         1           2          2           n/s but expect 2
NO3N           n/s          20          20         25           n/sbuteexpect 0
|P2asP   |       05           0.1*        02          0.2            1.0
Q.05 for lake or reservoir      n/s not stacd
CLbs;m Il- Domestic Potable Watcr Source Cbss IV - Industrial & Recreafion: Clss V - Agriocltmial and General Amenity
TretmentReqairemeas and Options
Both oxidation of ammonia and removal of nitate by denitrification will be required to ensure
compliance with EQS for Class IV and V waters. The incorporation of denitrification into the
treatnent process provides benefits in terms of process economics and process stability, i.e. reduced
air requiremnents, reduced alkalinity loss and a selector gradient which will tend to reduce potential
sludge bulking problems.
Phosphorus remnoval is required to protect the lake. Wastewater characteristics as calculated in the
"Design Parameters Reporft indicate that low levels of phosphate (less dhan I mg/l as P) can be easily
achieved through the provision of biological phosphorus removal at a very low incremental cost The
design proposed for STW Nos. 4B and No. S has been based on the Modified UCT (University of
Cape Town) process which provides measures to reduce the potential interference of recycling nitrate
associated with the Returned Activated Sludge (RAS) through denitrification.
Alternative methods of removal of phosphorus from wastewaters which are not considered
appropriate to the local situation in Kunming include:
* chenical dosing with iron salts either prior to settlement of crude sewage or into the works final
effluent prior to the-renoval of precipitated/flocculated solids by sedimentation or filtration.
Aluminium salts are not recommended as any soluble residual is toxic to aquatic life and the use
of lime has potential disadvantages as a result of high sludge yields relative to aluminium or
ferric addition, potential scaling problems and increased recarbonation requirements (dependent
upon the operating pH).
page 3of 28



Addendum
Chemnical dosing at the primary stage cannot be recommended (these conclusions are supported
by USEPA) prior a denitrif;ying activated sludge plant as there would be some loss of soluble
carbon which may necessitate an cxternal carbon source such as methanol to ensure
denitrification (such practises are of particular concern in this instance due to the toxicity of
methanol with respect to water supply); and potential bulking problems may arise by the loss of
trace organics from the system. Chemical addition to the works' eMfluent will re-'aire significant
additional plant in the form of sedimentation tanks or filtration equipment and facilities for
storage, dosing and mixing of chemnieals
Further reservations regarding the removal of phosphorus by chemical treatment relate to the high
consumption of a number of chemicals (including ferric chloride, lime, polyclectrolyte and
possibly methanol) and the associated problems of availability, quality, reliability of supply and
cost
* more recent innovative designs which include fluidised or fixed upflow beds (such as Crystalactor
type process) and ion exchange technology (using cliptilonite and anionic resins) are complex,
have high regenerant requirements and are unlikely to be cost effective for large municipal
sewage tratnent works.
Plhospzarte-hosed Detergeels
Consideration was given to the possible banning of the use of phosphate-based detergents in Kunming
to reduce phosphorus levels in the raw sewage. The impact of such a policy on the design and
operation of a conventional biological sewage treaument works is considered to be negligible, as
increased biological phosphorus removal can easily be achieved at a nominal incremental cost For
phosphorus removal systems based on the use of chemicals, the impact would be more significant, as
operational costs are directly proportional to the reduction in phosphorus levels achieved.
However, policies banning phosphate-based detergents are not considered to be practical.
Enforcement within the PRC is likely to be difficult to achieve. Furthermore, switching to alternative
non-phosphate based detergents such as zeolites has potential secondary impacts on the design of the
STWs with respect to sludge production and Ulodegradability. Fortunately, since the STWs for
Kunming are based on biological treatment processes, there arc no cost implications related to the
level of phosphorus in the raw sewage, so control of detergents is unnecessary.
Sluade Treatmen and Disposal
For the sewage tratment works in Kumning, the sludge treatment schemes have based on gravity
thick-ening followed uy dewatering using conventional belt presses. This option provides a low cost,
robust and reliable solution using technologies familiar to local operators. Provision has been
included in designs to eliminate phosphorus which may return in the sludge liquors, by precipitation
with ferric salts. The slu'dges produced in the wastewater treatment process are considered to be
stable, as a result of the long sludge age required to ensure full nitrification hence further stabilisation
processes such as aerobic or anaerobic digestion are not considered to be necessary. Dewatered
sludge cake will be disposed of to the sanitary landfill sites.
page 4 of 28



EA Report
Issue Ne 3 - Waer Demand Manngemen:
It -would seem that, in a situation where water quantity will be an issue within a few years.
more effort shoud be put water conservation and re-use approackes. The EA Report provides
litte information on the potential of this.
The water losses quoted in the EA (8 to I01%) are those officially reported by the Kunming Water
Supply Company (KWSC). However, as all the final flow meters at the water treatment works
(WTWs) are either stopped or faulty, the water loss figures are calculated using estimated flows from
the WTWs. The State Planning Council has instructed water agencies and companies throughout the
country to aim for a target water loss of IO%/o.
Preliminary evidence suggests that the actual water losses in Kunming may be in excess of ;0% in
some areas. The Kunming People's Government and senior managers of KWSC acknowledge that
water losses must be reduced. To this end, KWSC has established a Water Loss Reduction Leading
Group which is responsible for developing an integrated company-wide loss reduction strategy for the
company. The duties and responsibilities of the group, which have been agreed by management, are
to develop loss control strategies, set targets for reducing losses, implement control meares and
monitor achievement of the targets. The Water Saving Office of the Kunming Municipality is
responsible for setting consumers maximum water consumption targets linked to tariffs. It also has a
responsibility for public education about water.
| Issue No 4- Review QfAlternC al
In the EA Report, one finds lale discussion of aiternatrues or how speciftc technologies and
approaches were selected fiom a host of possibilities  This pertains in particular to the
selection of the wastewater treatment processes. Th also appeors to be little environmental
just ftcaftonfor the selection ofapartiwdar alternative aside from simple least cost
Reference should be made to Sections 3 and 6 ofthe EA ReporL
I KZunmuag Wastewater Project
Kunming discharges all its wastewater either directly or through sewers to the rivers and canals which
flow into Lake Dianchi. These rivers and canals are therefore grossly polluted. Domestic and
industrial pollution, land abuse, erosion and land reclamation have resulted in the lake ecosystem
changing to a turbid water body, the Caohai being worse affected than the Waihai. The water quality
in the lake has deteriorated to worse than Class V, well below the level at which it should be used as a
drinking water source. Nevertheless, the Waihai supplies up to half Kunming's water in dry years
and there are therefore very strong environmental reasons why Kunming's wastewater should be
treatet.
The overall objective of the Kumning wastewater project is therefore to ensure the capture of all
wastwater being generated in the urban area (both industrial and non-industrial) and prevent it entering
watercourses and the lake untrated. This will be achieved through four integrated strategies:
page S of 28



Addendum
* constructing trunk sewers;
* reticulating currently unsewered areas;
* constructing sewage treatmnent works (STWs);
* maximising connections to the system.
The decision concerning which basic wastewater treatment technologies to adopt for sewage
treatment, e.g. chemical treatment, oxidation ponds or conventional, intensive treatment systems, was
made first in favour of biological systems (see Issue No 2) and then in favour of intensive treatment
on the basis of the excessive land requirements and costs associated with ponds designed for the
climatic conditions in Yunnan. The two key factors compared were the number and location of STWs
and the detailed selection of processes. The location of the STWs had already been approximately
fied by the existing Sewerage Master Plan. However, other potential locations were also identified
and comparison analyses carried out. To a large extent, network layout has been determined by the
topography, trunk sewer minimisation, location of STWs, and existing and proposed urban
development.
Thus comparison of network layouts was based more on utilising existing sewers and in ensuring the
most economical pipe size was used. Within the city centre, the key issue lay not so much with the
network arrangement, but whether to convert the existing combined sewers into a separate system.
The latter will ultimately reduce treatment costs as STW capacities can be limited as they will only
treat sewage flows and not stormwater flows as they do at present The construction of a separate
sewer system also has advantages in that it reduces large sewer size and should minimise pumping,
especially in a region with large seasonal rainfall variations.
The key selection factor was to achieve the most cost effective method for phosphorus removal, the
pollutant of prime concem in the Dianchi Basin. Secondary factors include nitrogen, BODICOD and
suspended solids removal. The processes adopted are those believed to be the most suitable to achieve
the phosphorus objective without compromising the secondary objectives. In addition, the selected
processes have the advantage of being technologies already operating in China. Dewvatered sludge
will be disposed of to one of the landfill sites being developed under YEP. The altemative for
agricultural use has not been pursued due to the lackl of mark-et potential and ptential difficulties with
contamination.
2 Qutjng WastewaterProjed
Qujing discharges its wastewater to the Nanpanjiang River (headwater of the Pearl River) whick' plays
a decisive role in providing industrial and agricultural water supply to Qujing. Historically, the water
was of sufficient quality to pernit its use as a source of potable water, but continued failure to capture
and treat the city's wastewater has resulted in serious deterioration. The increasing pollution has
reduced the water quality to worse han Class V which now limits its use even to industry and
agriculture. To achieve the stated water quality objective of Class IV for the Nanpanjiang River, full
sewage treatment would be required, so a least-cost analysis of treatment options was carried out.
Four main treatment options were considerecL
- oxidation ponds,
* primary settlement followed by activated sludge,
* extended aeration activated sludge, and
* two-stage activated sludge.
Despite the low operating costs, the large land requirements of oxidation ponds, together with the lack
of suitable waste land or wetlands and the costs and environmental impact of using agricultural land
led to this option being rejected. Of the other three, variations on the activated sludge process, the
least cost option was identified as the extended aeration activated sludge at a cost (mcluding the
vage 6pof028



EA Report
sewerage system) of some *l 85 million. An evaluation was also made of an altenative site for the
STW, 5 km further away from the city. This would have incurred additional cost for the longer inlet
sewer and for upgrading the access road (a total additional cost of some *23 million on an overall
sewerage cost of *38 million) without any significant benefits except a lower land cost for the STW
site. It was agreed that the Qujing Master Plan should be revised to avoid further development
immediately adjacent to the selected STW site.
The option of providing two STWs, the second to serve the new Western Development Area after
about the year 2010, was also considered. The additional costs of the sewerage and pumping required
to carry the flows to-one site were shown to be outweighed by the economies of scale from a single
STW, as has also been demonstrated for Kunming. The re-use of the effluent for agriculture also
favoured the location of a single STW in the agricultural area
However, the autthorities judged the overall cost of the project to be still too high. To reduce the cost
of this phase, the decision was taken to provide as extensive a sewerage system as possible at the
outset to intercept all the sewage flows reaching the rivers running through the city but initially to
lower the discharge standard (with only removal of gross solids and some BOD) in the first phase.
This could be achieved by providing a reduced level of treatment. Although this treatment will not
meet the long temc requirements, it will nevertheless result in significant environmental quality
improvements. Two options to achieve this were considered:
* the first stage of the two-stage activated sludge process;
* chemically enhanced primary sedimentation.
Chemically-enhanced primary sedimentation was found to offer the lowest initial cost but, due to the
cost of chemicals, operating costs would be higher. Tests on the actual sewage treated would be
required to establish the optimum dose rate. However, lime was expected to offer the lowest
chemical cost which was estimated be in the order of 0.01 to 0.02 W/m3 of sewage treated.
Investment would be required in chemical storAge, dosing, mixing and flocculating equipment which
would become redundant as soon as full sewage treatment is provided. Therefore, alternatives were
considered which, although requiring higher initial expenditure, would lead to savings in initial
operating costs and less redundant facilities when full treatment is eventually provided.
The first stage of the two-stage activated sludge process is a high rate process which produces
unstable sludge. It is necessary to stabilise the sludge prior to dewatering. There are several methods
of achieving this but, in order for the initial investment in sludge stabilisation to remain useful in the
eventual two stage activated sludge process, the most appropriate method is aerobic stabilisation. This
can take two forms:
* aerobic digestion of surplus sludge;
* aerobic stabilisation of return sludge.
The volume of the aemted tank required for both alternaives is similar, the former providing a
relatively long retention of a smnaller amount of sludge and the latter providing a shorter retention
time for the larger volume of return sludge. If the returned sludge is stabilised, the process becomes
the contact stabilisation process which provides the additional advantage of reducing the amount of
ammonia in the treated sewage. Since only minor modifications are required, both sludge stabilisation
options can be provided for little additional cost, giving the flexibility to use the mode of operation
which is found by experience to provide the most cost effective treatment.
Enhanced primary teatment will be provided using high rate contact oxidation and aerobic
stabilisation of either return or surplus activated sludge. Land is being set aside for the provision of
full biological treatment using the two-stage activated sludge process as soon as that is affordable.
page 7 of 28



Adde-diam
3 Gejia WYastewater Project
Gejiu discharges its domestic sewvage .o Lake Gejiu, which receives wastewater from tin mining and
processing and other industrial activities and is also used as a balancing reservoir for industrial water
supply . As a result, the water quality of the Lake has deteriorated to worse than Class V. Excess
water from the lake (particularly in times of wet weather) is pumped out of the closed valley in which
the city is located into the Zhadian River to the north. Flooding of Gejiu City occurs when the
capacity of the existing pumping station is exceeded.
To achieve the stated water quality objective of Class IV, the sewage and industrial wastewater must
be prcvented from entering the lake. The considerable benefits to both lake and downstream river of
completely separating these from the flood water were identified during project development.
Principal options considered were based on the location of the STW, since there are effectively no
significant alternatives to the two interceptor sewers which will pick up sewage flows around Lake
Gejiu.
Four possible STW sites were considered, two by the lake and two beside the road north out of the
city. The lakeside sites were rejected on the grounds that the high value of land within the city would
not make these the least cost solutions. (Environmental impact on the surrounding urban areas is a
further reason for rejecting these, as was the higher cost of treatnent required to achieve the higher
effluent standard for discharge to the lake.) Of the two sites north of the city, Site 1 was preferred
o-ver Site 2 because of its closer proximity to the city, requiring a shorter inlet sewer. The additional
cost of the inlet sewer to Site 2 would be 12 million for the extra I km required. The capital cost of
the sewerage and pumping stations for Gejiu is Y40 million.
The arguments on the treatment process to be adopted are the similar to those for Qujing, with full
treatment options being initially considered.  As with Qujing, the overall project was deerned
unaffordable by the authorities. The desired reduction in project cost was achieved by reducing the
level of treatment provided in the first phase whilst maintaining the extent of the sewerage system
(thus ensuring that all wastewater currently reaching Lake Gejiu will be collected and treated).
Enhanced primary treatment will therefore be provided using high rate contact oxidation and aerobic
stabilisation of either return or surplus activated sludge. Land is being set aside for the provision of
full biological treatment using the two-stage activated sludge process as soon as that is affordable.
Despite the lower treatment level, Lakle Gejiu water quality will be greatly improved by discharging
the treated effluent to the Zhadian River and replacing the lost water in the dry season (if required)
with high quality surface water from controlled discharges from local reservoirs. The risk of flooding
in the city will be greatly reduced.
4 Kanmdg Water SArply
The Kunming Water Supply component was evaluated on a least cost basis. Initially, three options
were considered:
1. the extension of two existing WTWs;
2. construction of a new WTW;
3. the extension of existing WTW No I plus construction of a new WTW.
Option 3 was selected on least-cost grounds and because it was considered to be the most practical.
Sensitivity analysis based on varying the capacities in each of the options found this selection to be
robusL A set of long run sraegies are -being evaluated on a least cost basis as part of the Water
Resources Master Plan development and the preliminary results of this analysis infonned project
identification. All of them include the eventual importation of water, the key being that the
page 8 of 28



EA Report
combination of effective water demand management and the proposed projects, together with other
interventions, should defer importation as long as possible.
Provided all potential water resources within the catchment are developed, the indications are that
there could be sufficient resources to meet the vater demand up to the year 2020 at 95% reliability.
This involves continuing use of Lake Dianchi for municipal water supply, albeit using advanced
treatment processes, and therefore justifies the investment to limit damage to the lake. It also clearly
stresses the importance of protecting the lake as a local source for future use for drinking, water
supply and in so doing defer more costly interventions as long as possible.
The raw water source of Songhuaba was _z.lected because it is at present the least cost source and
although the primary role of Songhuaba is for irrigation and flood control, small increases in
municipal supplies can be obtained at the lowest average incremental cost. The Songhuaba
augmentation project will involve a modest increase in the yield of the reservoir initially through the
construction of a tail end dam. This was in turn selected as the least cost way of increasing yields as
the alternative of resettlement to allow the level of the entire reservoir to be raised would have been
much more excpensive. A further increase in yield could also be obtained by the construction of the
Huang Shi Yen Reservoir within the Songhuaba catchment.
S Qujing Water Project
The Qujing Water Supply Project is required primarily because the lackl of available water is severely
constramining industrial development in the city and therefore inhibiting its ability to act as a valuable
counter-magnet to Kunming despite its abundant coal and other mineral resources. Qujing has made
commendable efforts to conserve water and the price of water is presently significantly higher than in
Kunming and other towns in the area. The situation does not lend itself to full economic analysis. It
is not possible to identify with any accuracy the amount of industry that has been lost due to water
shortage and whether this industry had to locate or relocate in areas which result in real economic
losses. Nevertheless, the view in the Province and particularly in the Municipality is that the shortage
of water is significandy limiting present and future economic welfare.
All low cost sources of water for Qujing have been fully developed and the future options will require
a significant increase in water costs. Initially, four options were considered, based on the exploitation
of two existing reservoirs, Huashan 30km north of Qujing and Du Mu, 40km southeasL For each
reservoir, two locations for the WTW were evaluated and costed. Identification of the potential
additional yield of Huashan Reservoir rcvealed that, because of existing commitments, it would be
insufficient to justify the large expendi:ure.
Consideration of Du Mu options revealed that the least cost solution involved location of a new WTW
to the south of the city, but that this solution, at Zf440 million, was still considered as too expensive
for the city. Following a detailed review and redesign of the project in which the route of the
aqueduct was optimised and the pipe material and diameter rationalised, the least cost solution was
reduced to *300 million, and the project included in the YEP.
6 Soid Wase - Kwzg and Qjing
Initial choices for the solid waste management projects-in both Kunming and Qujing were based on
an evaluation aimed at defining the most appropriate technologies. A least cost analysis of options
was developed for the optimisation of the key components. Tse initial evaluation considered
potential solid waste treatment and disposal strategies including recycling, composting, incineration
and gasification, and landfilling. Recycling already plays an active role in each of the cities,
capturing most of the five percent of the municipal waste stream that can be profitably recycled,
mainly glass, plastics and metals. The industry is highly competitive, with a combination of state-
page 9 of 28



Addendum
owned and private firms providing services and little scope for additional municipal intervention. It
also provides employment for the lower end of the social economic ladder.
Composting, to recycle organic materials, has been tested in both Kunming and Qujing, but there
have been serious operational and environmental problems. costs have been high and markets have
not supported sales. Both incineration and gasification have been shown in other cities with similar
waste streams to be substantially more costly than landfill. The current continuing significant us-e of
coal in Kunming also gives the waste a low combustion *alue, over half the waste stream being
inorganic. This represents a major problem for both composting and incineration/gasification from
which the residues still require landfilling. Landfill was therefore chosen in both cities for the
disposal of municipal solid wastes.
An evaluation of the collection system in Kunming showed the advantage of developing two landfill
sites to serve opposite sides of the city and significantly reduce the haul distances and environmental
impact. The identification and assessment of sanitary landfill sites took into account factors including
haul distance, life expectancy, cost, access, land use, land acquisition and resettlement, cover
material, ecology, hydrogeology and potential re-use. Five potential sites were identified for
Kunming.
Acknowledging the difficulty in a geologically active area lik-e Yunnan of fnding a landfill site which
can meet all the impermeability requirements naturally, it was accepted that artificial linings would
have to be provided for at least some part of any landfill site chosen for the two cities. However, the
risk of earthquake damage to the liner and the potential for groundwater contamination is only smalL
there having been only fourteen earthquak-es in the region of not more than 7 (on the Richter scale)
over the last 500 years. The preferred sanitaly landfill sites for Kunming were identified as
Hongshuitang and Baishuitang with a total cost of W45.8 million and a life expectancy of 21 years. In
a similar exercise for Qujing, in which four sites were subject to a similar assessment, a single size,
with a total cost of *1 1.8 million in the first phase and a life expectancy of 19 years and located
between the city's two main urban centres (Qujing and Zhanyi), was chosen at Back Valley of Tail:
Mountain.
In both cases, the least cost site had, as one of the main decision criteria, minimization of the joint
cost of transport and land- acquisition. Since land acquisition cost correlates very strongly with
resettlement impact, this criteria also tends to minimize resettlement Sanitary landfills must also
comply with national standards, which require leachate and gas collection. No attempt was made,
therefore, to compare the cost of including these with the damage which would ensue from their
absence. Given the long run risks inherent in unprotected landfilk, the need to provide leachate and
gas collection was accepted and additional impact evaluation was not carried out.
Although solid waste collection and transfer vehicles and equipment have a relatively short life, the
transfer stations which form an integral part of the systern have much longer lives, and therefore need
to be designed for flexibility to adjust to changing situations. The analysis of the waste collection
system therefore addressed both the cost of collection and transfer equipment and the optimisation of
size, location and c sign of small, medium and large transfer stations (STSs, MTSs and LTSs) within
the city. Costs of collection and transfer were analysed and optimised using the UNCHS WAGS
Compactor Program for equipment ranging from tricycles to container trucks.
Optimisation of the numbers of collection vehicles showed that for Kunming the ideal system should
be one with a large numberof STSs. Waste is carried direct from them to the landfill sites in 8 tonne
containers. However, an evaluation of the land acquisition and environmental impact aspects of the
thirty-five STSs originally proposed demonstrated the considerable problems of trying to locate a
large number of transfer stations of any size within the city. Particular environmental problems
related to noise disturbance in residential areaS and to increased traffic movements during the nighL
page 10 of 28



EA Report
On these grounds, the decision was taken to limit the number of transfer stations in Kunming and thus
build only thirteen STSs and, instead, to locate four MTSs in the areas of greatest environmental
impact. Sites for a further two MTSs were identified for future expansion. The evaluation showed
that there was no need at all for LTSs, because the time saving achieved would not justify the
additional capital and opeating costs of the LTS and related vehicles.
A similar exercise in Qujing showed that the least-cost system would be one with five STSs in Qujing
City and one in Zhanyi in the long-term. No MTSs are required because of the short haul distance to
the landfill site.
Issue No 5 - Water Q&fffli Data for Lk Dianchi
Ambient water quality datafor Lake Dianchi appear to have some problems. For exanple, the
quaity of the inflows from rzvers is higher than the receiving body There are several values
quoted in the data which are contrary to conzmon sense. such as 12 mg/Ifor a dissolved oxygen
concentration. cdearly in the supersaturated range-
Reference should be made to Section 4.1.7 of the EA Report.
Water quality data for Lake Dianchi and its influent rivers have been collected by a number of
different agencies during both regular sampling programmes and special surveys over a period of
many years. Many of the data available are dated and there are clearly some compatibility problems,
which probably derive from different sampling and analysis techniques and different personnel.
However, it was not possible within the scope of the project to mount a new comprehensive water
quality study, especially as the principal problems with water quality are well-known. The data
clearly demonstrate a significant deteriororation since 1988.
Issue No 6 - Eology oLak Dianchi
We understand there have been sigl4ficant changes in Lake Dianchi's ecology over the past
severalyears What are some of these changes and what do theyforetell asfar aspossibilities
for restoration? How has hiodiversity been reduced over the years?
Few data are available on the ecology of Lake Dianchi. Most are biological data fron the 1950s and
1988-1989, on macrophyts, plankton, fish and benthos, contained in an English translation of a
compendium "The Ecosystem in Lake Dianchi Catchment". The spatial and temporal variation of the
data is unknown, because most have been sunmarised and/or are only qualitative. Only some structural
page 11 of28



Addendum
analysis of the ecosystem is possible. A functional analysis would require more data. Table No 2 offers
a comparison of the characteristics of the lake between the 1950s and today.
Table No. 2 Comparison of both Biotic and Abiotic Characteristics of Lake Dianchi between the
1950s and the 1988-1989/current situation
In some cass a disincon was made betwhe Caohai or ,ier lake (1) and dte Waihai or outer lake (0)
Variable                     lunit             1950s                current
transparency                   m              (bottom)            0A (1) 0.7 (0)
max-min watei level            m              unknown                 1.90
total-P                       mg/l            unknown            0.57 (1) 0.14 (0)
total-N                       mgil            unknown             3-7 (1) 1-2 (0)
N:Y                                           unknown              6 (1) 12 (0)
shoreline                                  sloping/gradient         steep (1)
sediment                                    probably thin        thick, polluted
macrophyte species             n                41                    20
macrophyte lake coverage       %                >80                   <3
dominant group                              Charophyres          Eikhomia (1)
Myriophyllum (0)
phytoplankton species          n                186                   126
dominant group                  _             unknown            Cyanobacteria *
numberof algae               n*lO3/l        1 3(1)37(0)        19,000 (1) 11,000 (0)
zooplankton species        _                  unknown                 61
dominant group              _                                       Rotifers
i  abundancy           _  _  nll             1200-1,400        14.000 (1) 14,000 (0)
dominant fish species                     endogenous >60%            exotic
* dominance of Cyamobactria. at kast in biomass. is deduced from the oca rence of alga blooms dmt were reported:
ChIoroavaea and BacillariophIcae (sti) domine nnuericaly. Thc species prost have cnged from mesotrophic to
etrophic indicato
Soume: DRA CotamWs sumway of papcrs by Yutmna organisations
ainmges to Lake Ecoloy
In the early fifties, Lake Dianchi was an oligo- to mesotrophic clear water lake. Sediments were largely
covered by macrophytes, Charophytes being dominant nhe fish community consisted largely of
indigenous species, while phytoplankton was dominated by Chlorophymaea (green algae) and Bacillkio-
plycaea (diatoms). Some Cyanobacteria (bluegreens) were also present Under these conditions of low
to moderate productivity, zooplankton numbers of about 1,20QII apparently succeeded in suppressing
algal grwth. Shores were sloping, resulting in different zones of littoral macrophyte communities,
contributing to a large biodiversity.
In the sixties and seventies, apparently important changes took place in the ecology of the lake. in-
creased human activity led to domestic and industrial pollution, land abuse, erosion processes, land
reclamation at the shores, overcatching of fish and introduction of exotic edible fish species. As a result,
the lake ecosystem changed into a turbid waterbody, the fish community probably being dominated by
caps, and the algae by blue-greens, (periodically) including harmful taxa such as AMsrocyutis,
Oscglioria and Aphaomenon.
Average chlorophyll-a values incrased to 120-150 pg/I for the Caohai and 20-50 WpI in the Waihai.
Zoopbnkton numbers increased more than 10-fold over the years and now mainly consists (60%) of
page 12 of 28



£4 Report
smaller Rotifera which hardly contribute to filtering the lake as the larger Cladoceaans would. Despite
the enriched sediment, the inner lake surprisingly almost lacks macrozoobenthos (80 - 3,000
individuals/m2), which can only be explained by a very high sedimentation rate, anoxic conditions
andlor serious toxic pollution. The sediments of the outer lake sediments contains much more
zoobenthos and numbers of O13,000/r have been reported.
Macrophyte coverage changed from >80%6 to -2% of the lake surfice. By the early seventies, eutrophic
indicators such as Ceratophyflum demersum and Powamogeton pectizaus became dominant over the
Charophytes. In the late seventies, these species disappeared resulting in almost no subnersed
macrophytes at all. Nowadays, dominant macrophytes in the outer lake are Myriophyliwn (west bank)
and Phragmites (east bank). The Caohai is covered (40-50%) by water hyacinth (Eichronia), closing
off large parts of the water column from light and oxygen. Indications are given in the literature that
certain parts of the west bank might be in a process of landforning. Marshy species like A-olHa and
Polygomm have been reported in these areas. Only in a few western parts of the Waihai (Huiwan Bay)
macrophyte coverage is adequate for fish to spawn and matu
In Table No. 3, some of the current abiotic conditions in the lake are summarised. These show that
eutrophication is only one of the current ecological problems. Another is the discharges from industry,
of which especially the copper smelter and the pesticide industry seem to have a large impat on the
water and the sediments. As there is very litle information, the table must be used with great care. The
process of deterioration of the ecosystem can hardly be reconstructed, because there is a lack of
comprehensive data between 1950 and 1995. This is especially regretted because this historical
perspective could have been helpful to derive measures for restortion or assess the feasibility of those
measures.
Table No.3 Summary of Crrent Abiotic CharacterticL
Variable                          unit            Caohai             Waibai
transparency (SD)                 m                 037                0.68
total phosphorus                 mg/i           0.42-0.97          0.07-0.14
total nitrogen                   mgIl                3-7                1-2
chlorophyll-a               _      gl_   100-130                      15-40
waterdepth                        m                   1-2           34 (10)
Cu (sediment)                   mg/k             360-714             34-446
Pb (sediment)                    mg/kg          661-1000              28-66
Cd (sediment)                   mg/g               42-80            0.4-3.36
Hg (sediment)                   mkg                1.0-1A           0.1-0.35
As (sediment)                   mg/kg            267-332              13-43
Souc DRA Consultants sumamy orpapces by Ytmnan organisations
Eco-toxicological effects on the aquatic community largely depend on the bio-availability of toxins to
both benthic and aquatic species and on foodweb strcu     Apart from acute lethal effects (to
organisms that are exposed to high concentrations of toxins), diffirent sublethal effi:cts are possible to
happen. Sub-ledtl efects can include a general decrease in physical condition, the forming of
carcinomas, loss of reproductivity and genetic changes. As a result, sensitive species disappear from the
aquatic community, changing the structure of it and leaving out functional groups in the foodweb. In
different ways, man could suffer from these eco-toxicological effects. Possible effects include diseases,
reduced fish productivity and a general loss of natd values.
page 13 of 28



Addendum
Restoraton of te Lake Ecoloy
In general, highly eutrophic ecosystems are hard to restore Large reductions of the phosphorus loading
are needed to force the lake into another trophic state. Therc might even be a resistance of the current
foodweb to changes. Reduction of the phosphorus loads will hardly ever result in an immediate
response of the in-lake concentration, amongst other reasons because of release of phosphorus from the
cnriched sedimcnts, especially if there are major reductions in the water column.
It has been shown that, even if phosphorus loads into the lake were reduced to zero, it would still take
about 10 years for the phosphorus concentrations to return to the pre-1970 levels. Furthernore,
hysteresis effects in the relationship between thie limiting nutrient (often phosphorus) and chlorophyll-a
are known. As a result, chlorophyll-a will drop long afler expected from the nutrient concentrations
established in the lake. These hysteresis effects are often caused by factors such as foodweb changes,
lost spawning grounds for fish, etc. Reduction of TP to concentrations ofthe order of 0.05 to 0.Q mg/l is
likely to be required before a significant improvement in the lake ecology can be achieved. This
recovery could be assisted by the re-introduction of appropriate macrophytes within the lake. Proposals
already exist for such a project.
In determining the best measures to be taken with respect to reduce the effects of eutrophication, the
limiting nutrient should be known. Front the data analysis carried out,t it appears that the lak-e is
phosphorus limiting. Very effective nitrogen reduction by a dense macrophyte coverage has been
reported in the literature on Lake Dianchi. Nevertheless, phosphorus reduction is generally more safe to
reduce algal productivity in freshwater, because certain nitrgen fixing Cyanobacteria could reject the
positive effects expected from nitrogen reduction only.
Lake ecosystens that are affected by eutrophication, sedimentation, water shortage, changes in
morphology and ecotoxins at the same time, need a set of integmated measures to be restored. These
mneasures must address the k-ey variables to which the aquatic ecosystem will respond. Preferred
standards should consist largely of variables that are easy to monitor. It is cost effective to spend most
effort in getting relevant and representative ("clever") variables instead of spending it on broad
monitoring programs. A preliminary list of key variables for Lakle Dianchi based on the available
infornation, is presented in Appendix 1. It is also cssential to have a good understanding of the current
ecology of the lakle and proposals for comprehensive studies are under preparation. These should
include determination of the capacity of the lake to absorb pollution, especially phosphorus, and how
this can be improved, a- this is critical to understanding the long-tern ecological status ofthe lake.
Beneueks and the Needfor Further Stuey
Beneficial effects of restoring Lake Dianchi include increased possibilities for tourism, natural values
and wildlifi:, sustainable fisheries, and less eutrophication related problems, such as water hyacinth
coveage, algal blooms, odour, fish kills, water supply problems resulting from algal blooms and oxygen
depletion. Waterborne diseases will probably decrease However, further study is needed to understand
how the restoation will be achieved. One key aspect is the dynamics of pollution fiom non-point
source phosphorus in the catchment This has the potential to be of particular significance to the future
of the lake.
Further study needs also to address the apparent paradox in which nutrient levels and clear water
conditions combine with sustainable fisheries. If these two objectives appear to be contradictory, than
perspectes for intensified pisciculture around the lake should be examined, because the curreiit fish
catches fromn Lake Dianchi make about 30Xe of the total fish production in the Yunnan Province.
Related matters such as the edible species preferred znd the fisherman's income perspectives should also
be taken into account
page 14 of 28



EA Report
To help start the restoration of Lake Dianchi effluent standards for municipal and industrial discharges
have been set (see Issue No. 2 above). These include standards for both phosphorus and nitrogen.
However, the difficulties in restoring Lak-e Dianchi to the clear water conditions of 40 years ago need to
be acknowledged. The ecological response will not always follow abiotic improvements proportionally.
For instance, algal blooms will not necessarily disappear when the phosphorus concentration drops to
0.2 mg IPA, but will do so if it drops from 0.2 to 0.05 mg TPAI.
Issue No 7The Fistikes of L Dake Iin,hi
The diversity and number offcs species are good indicators of general biodiversity The EA
Report provides little information on the dynamics offish species since the 1950s, when the
lake was considered to be heathy. Should we consider a fish survey at this time to obtain a
good picture of the cwrrent sitation before tee project implemented?  In addirion  little
information is provided on aquacuftral activities and the economic impact of fishing and
Fisk Species in Lake
Fisheries biologists identified 23 indigenous fish species as having been present in the lake originally,
12 of them being endemnic to Lake Dianchi. In addition, a further 30 exotic species have been stocked
into the lake since the late 1950s, making a total of 53 fish species. However, competition for food
and living space, along with increasing fishing effort and escalating pollution of inflowing river
waters, is reported to have resulted in the extinction of at least 16 of the indigenous group according
to surveys conducted by Prof. He Ji-chang and Liu Zhen-hua of Yunnan University during 1984/85.
They also found that 6 of the exotics had not survived, with the result that the fishery then comprised
some 31 species (see Appendix 2 Table 1). -
Kunming Municipal Fishery Administration and Management Department (MFAMD) reports since
then suggest that the fish fauna has contacted further to 27 species. In fact, only 6 of these fish
species figure prominently in fishermen's catches together with quantities of shrimp and molluscs.
There arr now indications that all but 2 of the 12 endemic fish species have disappeared from Yunnan
and that only one, Anabarilius alburnops (Regan) actually remains in the lake today. This fish is
listed in the China Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan as a Grade C Priority Fish Species. Two
other indigenous fish in that Plan (Sinocyclocheilts grmami (Regan), which is on the Grade B list,
and Cyprinas micristius micristius (Regan), which is on the Grade C list, may therefore have already
disappeared.
Fish Stocks and Cathes
Contrary to an earlier view that fish catches and stocks in Lake Dianchi were generally on the decline,
catch data supplied by MFAIAD covering the period 1984 to 1994 and preseted in Appendix 2,
Table 2, now suggests that of the 6 commercially important fish, only Neoslanx zaihuensis is in
serious trouble, catches having dwindled from 3500 tonnes in 1984 and 3200 tonnes in 1987 to only
200 tonnes in 1994. Catches of molluscs have also fallen over the decade, from more than 1000
tonnes per year in 1984/85 to 300 tonnes in 1994.
MFAMD efforts to conserve fish stocks include annual releases of hatchery produced fish fry into the
lake, e.g. 16.64 million in 1993, comprising five of the species of commercial importance. Other
page 15 of 28



Addendum
measures include reductions in fishing effort, fishing net mesh size rules and closed seasons imposed
when judged necessary.
In response to the decline in stocks of Neosakmx, MFAMD has imposed restrictions on size of the
fishing fleet so as to reduce fishing efforL In particular, the use of motorised fishing boats was
prohibited as from January 1994 and it is reported that fleet size has fallen from 3236 boats in 1992 to
2463 boats in 1994. Very few of the boats carry more than 3 fishermen and it follows that the smaller
fleet has also caused a reduction in numbers of fishermen, from 9630 in 1992 to 7380 in 1994.
Although this reduction in employment might have had serious sociological consequencies, it is
understood that the majority of fishermen are also farmers who, having access to farmland, fish on the
lake for only part of the year, usually for no more than 3 months. According to MFAMD, only 350 of
the 1992 fishing labour force were fill-time fishennen and most of them still continue to operate.
Fishing nets in use include a small mesh drag-net for catching bottom living small species,
particularly Neosalanx and shrimp, and a variety of surface-set and bottom-set gill nets for the various
kinds of carp and other fish.
Despite its unpreposessing appearence the Caohai does still contain some introduced fish, particularly
Silver Carp and Grass Carp, and is still fished by a number of fishermen using gill nets. They said that
catches nowadays are much lower than in the past and comprised mainly the two carp species with
very few other fish. Traders come each day to the lake shore to buy their catches paying   11/kg for
Silver Carp and * 8/kg for Grass Carp.
According to the record, overall production of fish and shellfish from the lake increased rapidly from
about 100 tonnes per year in the early 1950s to peak at 9100 tonnes per year during 1987 to 1989,
since when there has been a moderate decline to around 7500 tonnes. (see Appendix 2, Table 2). In
more detail, it appears that the catch of large fish, mainly the major carps, has held up quite well
whereas other fin-fish species have declined sharply in recent years, and particularly so as regards the
Neosalax catch.
Production of shrimp has fluctuated quite widely from year to year but the trend is for the catch to
increase, in line with growth in consumer demand. Shrimp, being bottom living plankton eaters and
scavengers, no doubt benefit from the current superabundance of food in the main lake. As regards
the catch of molluscs, the sharp fall in 1985/86 is said to have been caused by lack of demand and low
prices, and since then production has held fairly steady at an annual average of about 200 tonnes. A
point of concern is that many gastropods (aquatic snails) and bivalve molluscs are filter feeders and
are known to concentrate heavy metal ions such as lead, mercury and also arsenic and can therefore
be highly toxic to eaL
It is difficult to draw definite conclusions from this rather mixed pattern of fish catches, except to
suggest that at least part of the fishery is in a rather unstable state and therefore, that it is vulnerable to
any further environmental deterioration. In addition to any measures necessary to improve water
quality the situation certainly requires strict monitoring of catch rtes and fishing effort, leading to
the possible imposition of firther conservation measures to safeguard against the risk of overfishing,
if stocks do decline in future, from whatever cause. It is strongly urged that there should be no further
introductions of yet more exotic fish species but that the annual restocking with major carps, such as
Grass Carp which in any case cannot breed natumlly in the lake, should continue and even be
expanded if possible, in support of the fishing industry.
Aquaculture
It is reported that there are now about 30 mu (2 ha) of floating, anchored net cages on the lake in
which intensively reared and artificially fed carp yield up to 60 tonnes of fish per mu, or about
1800 tonnes of fish per year, mostly Cyprinus carpio. Half of these cages are owned by local govt
and half by some 40 families. In addition, there are a further 50 mu of semi-intensive fenced
cages/enclosures, some of them being located along the western side of the inner lake, in which the
page 16 of 28



EA Report
fish have to depend on naturally occuring food mn the lake water, without any supplementary feeding.
These enclosures are reported to yield about 5 tonnes of marketable fish per mu per year, or 250
tonnes of fish per year in total, mosty of Silver Carp. Local government owns 2S mu of these cages
and the other 22 mu are privately owned by about 100 families.
MFAMD stated that there are some 10,W00 mu (670 ha) of fish ponds belonging to more than 3000
farners and situated on flat land close enough to the lake shore for owners to be able to fill their
ponds by pumping water from the lake. These ponds are stocked with a variety of carp species,
especially Cienopharyngodon (grass carp). Hypophamych   (silver carp). Aristickthys and
Carssius spp. Annual yields are reported to average 400 kg/mu or 6 tonnes/ha, although one pond
owner said that he harvested only about I tonne per year from ponds totalling 8 mu. His yield was
thus only 125 kgtmu or 1875 kg/ha, which is rather low by current fish-farming standards.
Interestingly, although intensive duck rearing was in progress at the time of the visit, adjacent to the
fish pond complex, none of the pond owners had taklen up polyculture, in which combinations of carp
with duck, poultry or pigs can be reared together, producing greatly enhanced yields of fish as well as
of the other animal involved. This suggests a need for more effective extension work- in the area to
provide farmers with the necessary information and technical support for further development
All these forms of aquaculture have a need, in common, for good quality water. Contaminated water
supplies impose added stress on farned fish, particularly under intensive culture conditions and
render them more vulnerable to stress related and epidemic diseases, with adverse impacts on the
farmers incomes and livelihood. The fish farming sub-sector is thus as much at riskl as is the lake
fishery to any increase in pollution.
Value of Frsheries.
In the absence of published data, information was sought as often as possible on prices paid to
fishermen and fish farmers in order to makle a provisional assessment of the industry's worth and the
economic cost of any changes which might endanger its future wellbeing. These figures are presented
in Appendix 2, Table 3 and show that the community, including ancillary workers and families, who
derive all or much of their livelihood from fishing or fish farmingr totals nearly 42,000 people. The
value of 1994 fish production to the producers at current prices is IF12 1,500,000.
A capture fisherman's gross annual income from fish sales is of the order of M 7950, from which has
to be deducted the costs of boat repairs/depreciation and fishing net repair and replacement,
amounting to perhaps M 4000 per year, leaving his net income still well in excess of average rural
incomes.
In the past, Lake Dianchi produced more than 50OX of the annual provincial total capture fish yield,
but this has dwindled during the last 4 years or so, to barely 39%. Nevertheless, the lak-e is still the
largest single fish producer and, as such is an asset to be safeguarded at almost any cosL
The Dianchi Basin and Provincial figures show a similar trend as regards the growth in farmed fish
production, especially from ponds. Pond area has expanded from 9900 ha in 1990 to nearly 19,000 ha
in 1993, whilst production from the ponds has similarly increased from 18,800 tonnes in 1990 to
29,240 tonnes in 1993.
In the Provincial context, the Dianchi Basin fisheries currently contnbute, overall some 28% of total
fish supply and, as population grows will be expected to produce even more in future. This need must
therefore be taken into account in the planning process.
Summary of Condusion
(a) The most discernable impact of eutrophication of Lake Dianchi waters to date is the growth in
shrimp catches since 1991. Shrimp are bottom living detritus scavengers and it seems that the stocks
are benefitting from the superabundance of food material rining down onto the lake bed. However,
as noted, this benefit cannot be expected to continue indefinitely.
page 17of 28



Addendrm
(b) The collapse in stocks of Neosalanx in the lake appears to be due more to overfishing than to the
impacts of pollution, although the latter will not have helped. Again, as noted above, measures are
being taken to reduce fishing effort in the hope that this will enable the stocks to recover.
(c) The fall in production of molluscs from Lake Dianchi is reported to have been because of a drop
in consumer demand. Should pollution continue to increase, consumption of molluscs will become
increasingly dangerous because of their ability to concentrate substances toxic to humans, and public
health needs may have to result in prohibition of their production and sale.
(d) The inner lake presents a different picture in that it appears the only fish remaining in fishermen's
catches are Silver Carp and Grass Carp, pollution having progressed beyond the stage where the other
fish species could breed or survive. Even the stocks of these two carp species are only sustained by
means of MFAMD's annual restocking with hatchery produced fiy. It is clear that unless action is
taken soon to improve water quality in the inner lake, it will become totally barren.
(e) It is being suggested that the fenced fish cages along the Western side of the inner lake should be
demolished because they are a source of water pollution. In reality, their contribution is minute
compared to the other inflows of industrial and urban liquid waste and as the fish in this type of
enclosure do not receive supplementary feed they are in fact net consumers of eutrophytes and are
being unfairly attacked. On the other hand, if the cages are in an area which is due to be dredged,
then the project budget should include provision for their relocation and reconstruction.
(f) The most notable feature to emerge from the study of fisheries within the Dianchi Basin, is the
very rapid growth in pond fish-farming. This has more than compensated for any loss in fish
production from other causes in recent years, and should continue in future. However, it is not known
how much suitable land still renains which could be converted to ponds, assuming adequate water
supplies, and it is recommended that the necessary surveys should be undertaken as a matter of
urgency.
Proposed Lake Dianchi Studies
Terms of reference have have been drawn up to carry out a brief study to identify the current diversity
of the ecology of Lake Dianchi, with particular emphasis on the declining indigenous fish. It will
seek to identify the fish species remaining in the lake. It is proposed that this work will be carried out
during April and May 1996.
Iwsike No 8- hNd&trial Pollution Control GPO * mme n zs
Liate i?!foriation is provided n the EA Report on the ims and benefits of te industrial
. pollution control  insemer -. There is a need for a snmay of the specfi quantities of
polhaantth  willbereducedanda whatcasLo-
Kuwnmg Chemic Fertiser Facory (KCF19
Reference should be made to Section 3.4.6 of the EA Report.
Wate:r Pollution
The main water polluting processes of the factory are the ammonia plant and the phosphoric
acid/MAP plant In the ammonia plant, the coal gasification is a difficult process, mainly in design,
where direct cooling is used, there is poor maintenance, and elemental sulphur is not recovered. In
page 18 of 28



EA Repot
the phosphoric acid plant, troubles are mainly caused by frequent shut-downs caused by supplies of
sulphuric acid, which must be purchased, running out The equipment used for fluoride scrubbing is
also in poor repair, and so the scrubber- liquor, instead of being recirculated, is often directly
discharged.
There are two facilities for treating the wastewater, one for the phosphoric acid plant wastewater,
which is operating reasonably, and one for the cyanide from the coal gasification, which is seldom
operational.
The IPC project for KCFF includes the following elements:
* construction of a sulphuric acid plant, which will eliminate the stop-start phosphate production;
* installing indirect cooling to replace direct cooling;
* recover waste elemental sulphur, at 200 tonnes per year,
* renovate the fluoride scrubbing circuit;
* a single-stage nitrifying activated sludge wastewater treatment works to meet the effluent standard
for Lake Dianchi (Class III of Table No. I above).
Air Pollution
The main air pollutors are the desulphurisation plant, which emits H2S and S02, the phosphoric acid
reaction which emits fluoride gases, the G!ainular Triple-Super Phosphate which emits fugitive
fluoride gases.
The proposals for improvement are:
- recovery of sulphur,
* use of tannin-catalysed desulphurisation;
* use of pressure swing adsorption for decarbonisation;
. fluorine scrubbing.
Simulation tests indicate that the S02 levels will be halved by the above measures. Although these
will be off-set by the emnissions from the new sulphuric acid plant, the net effect is neutral. However,
the Class 2 standards will not be infringed by the proposed changes.
Health. Safety and Housakeeping (H. S & ID
KCFF is reasonably good in these matters by dhe standards observed in the PRC, but fails to provide a
suitable maintenance programme. A well-directed maintenance schedule will markedly improve the
environmental aspects of the site.
The overall environmental benefits of the proposed project for the KCFF are summarised in Table
No.4.
Table No. 4 Environmental Benefits of KCFF
Before            After       Incremental Gain/Loss
TP                 35 tonnesyar     0.5 tonnedyear     - 34.5 tonneslyear
-4Y16M peryear damage
costs avoided
NHrN              555 tonneslyear    10 tonneslyear    -545 uonneslyear
Water used           631 mn':hr      205-234 m'lhr       - 400 m3lhr
Wastewater           550 m'ihr        60-93 mV/hr        - 475 m3/hr
discharges
Based on Ywnan Provincial Inisitue of Chenical Engineering Design (YP1CED) and KCFF data.
page 19 of 28



Addendum
Kanyang Pkosphate Fertser Factory (KPFF7
Reference should be made to Section 3.4.6 of the EA ReporL
Water Pollution
At present, there are a number of main polluting processes, but in the forefront are the fused calcium
magnesium phosphate (FCMP) process, sulphuric acid (SA), granulated triple super/single
superphosphate (GTSP/SSP) and yellow phosphorus (YP).
The FCMP process produces large amounts of solids and fluoride that must be scrubbed out of the gas
steam, and is transferred to water as solids and acidic liquor. The sulphuric acid plant should not be
a problem, but the cast-iron cascade acid coolers are in such a bad state of repair that there are
frequent leaks. The resulting acidic water is often totally discharged, short-circuiting the recirculation
process.
The phosphate processes evolve fluoride gases that must be scrubbed out The granulation process
produces dust that is also scrubbed out, resulting in high concentrations of F and P in the water. These
pollutants are only partially eliminated at a later stage. As with all phosphoric acid plants, the gypsum
by-product provides some problems, as it is wet with acidic water that oozes out with time.
The YP process results in elemental P in both the tail-gas and the collection troughs.
There are four facilities for treating the water.
- a neutaliser and settler in the FCMP plant;
* a neutraliser forthe SA water,
* a lime neutraliser, settler and filterfor the phosphate;
* a lime neutraliser, settler and filter for the YP.
The phosphate and YP facilities are reasonably effective.
The proposals include:
* close down the FCMP plant and replace with a product mix of high value low-polluting industrial
and food chemicals;
* change the raw material source for SA from pyrites to elemental sulphur,
* upgrading the capacity ofthe SA plant will also tak-e some pressure off the performnance to the
benefit of the environment;
* install new, probably plate type, coolers in the SA plant;
* attempt to contain some of the liquid run-off from the gypsum;
* recycle more scrubber water in the GTSP plant, and uograde the WPP for the resulting purge;
* for the YP, imnprove the efficiency of water recycle and upgrade the efficiency of the WPP,
* improve the separation ofthe "cleane and "dirty water streams;
* improve the final CWTP, in a two step neutralisation to remove the remainder of the F and P that
has slipped by the individual WPPs, and ensure the standards are met.
Air Pollution
The main air polluters are the sulphuric acid plant and the boilers from the chemical evaporators,
which emit SO2 , the GTSPJSSP plants which emit F, and the FCMP plant which emits F and SO2.
The proposals for improvement are closing down the FCMP plant, and improving the scrubbing of the
tail gases of the YP and GTSP plants. This action will reduce the SO2 and F levels, even with the
proposed increase in the SA plant and specialty chemicals.
page 20 J'28



E4 Report
Simulation and monitoring programmes show that the present emission levels are not higher than the
standards, so it is reasonable to assume that a simulated reduction due to improved conditions will be
even further below standards.
Health Safty and Housekeeping
The Kunyang plant does not measure up well with reasonable standards of H, S & H. There are many
examples of un-guarded belts, pulleys, etc., protective clothing is not seen, while the housekeeping is
very poor. These are often the consequences of an older plant, but it is true that an untidy plant is not
likely to be a profitable plant. A project to improve the maintenance organisation should be
considered.
The overall environmental benefits of the proposed project for the KPFF are summarised in Table No.
5.
Table No 5 Environmental Benefits of KPFF
Before         After         Incremental GainlLass
TP                77 tonnes/year   I tonnefyear       - 76 tonnes/year
44r34 Wyear darnage costs
avoided
Water used          650 m3/hr      210 m3dhr            - 440 m3/hr
Wastewater          540 m3/hr       117 m3/hr           - 423 mn3hr
discharges
Based on YPICED and K PFF daa
The detailed studies carried out show that, although KPFF may slightly exceed the ground level
concentations of sulphur dioxide and fluoride occasionally, with the proposed changes the emission
standards should very seldom, if ever, be exceeded.
Issue No 9 - Water Qualt Mid,:
We understand tha a water quality model has been used in assessing the various strategtes to
be applied .The EA makes only limited mention of this modeL Is it an ineationally accepted
model has it been used elsewhere. and has it been property calibrated?
Reference should be made to Section 4.1.7 of the EA Report.
The significant deterioration in water quality of the Waihai over 10 to 15 years has also been caused
by increased nutrients, particularly phosphate (024 mg/l in 1994) and nitrate, and also by dissolved
organics and toxic heavy metals. The current classification is worse than Class V. These high
phosphorus levels have stimulated the growth of algae in the lake. The algae in tun, have resulted in
difficulties with operation of water treatment processes at WTW Nos 5 and 3. The latter works is
now shut down because ofthis problern.
page 21 of 28



Figure No 5.3 Schematic Representation of the Waihai TP Model
..............................................................................................................
NON-POINT SOURCES   POINT SOURCES                              FLOWS
Runoff (Farznland         Kunming Domestic
and mining)               and Industrial Flows             WATER
TVEs                                                    RESOURCES
Rural Sanitation          Small Town Sewage                MODEL
Atmosphere
p,  |  SCENARIOS
. O I X1                        3    45
'-. ... .. .... ... ...         ................... ..     ...................... ..........
INFL,OW
LAKE TP
ABSTRACTION f                   LAKE                                             ION
D  < ~ \                                               J   COEFFICEENT
VOLUME V                                  R
OUTLOWv  
Qout
............ ...I......... .     ....I... ...................................................
o    1    2       3    4    5
TP CONCENTRATIONS
H                        IN LAKE
...........................................................................................................



E4 eport
Mean values for TN, DO and BOD shows wide variation in results for both the lake and the incoming
rivers with important implications for both the interpretation and reliability of the data. The variation
in the data exceeds the range over which these parameters are thought to be deteriorating,
consequently sampling variation is greater than the trend which we wish to identify. The trend will
only become evident with the collection and analysis of substantially more samples as part of the
proposed Environmental Management and Monitoring sub-component of the World Bank funded
YEP.
TP was assessed to be the principal limiting nutrient for algal growth in the lake. Because of its
important role in the deterioration of Lake Dianchi as a water resource, predict of future changes in TP
levels was identified as crucial, both in understanding how existing development trends would cause
levels to rise and also in assessing the costs of the worsening situation. A simple (spreadsheet-based)
water quality model (see Figure No. I) to predict future TP concentrations in the Waihai has been
prepared by YEPO. A simplified approach was adopted for the modelling because of the very limited
data sets available. The model was calibrated and validated using data fiom the period 1987 to 1994.
In particular, annual average TP concentrations in the Waihai were used.
The model uses the mass balance approach and incorporates the major flow elements into and out of
the Waihai (assuming the Caohai flows are discharged via the Xiyuan tunnel and do not enter the
Waihai, either at all or in any significant amount). It is based on a 36 year hydrological sequence and
the relationship between inflows and the retention of TP in the lake.
Using a total of six scenarios, including "Do Nothing", 'Do Nothing More" (than is already being
implemented) and the implementation of the YEP components, the model also considered the effects
of effective removal of non-point source TP from the water in the rivers flowing into Lake Dianchi.
These waters are used for irrigation for nearly 90% of the year and flows into the lake only occur for
about 50 days per year. A relationship was derived between long-term TP concentrations in the lak-e
and the inflow TP load. This showed that, based on the assumption that effective reduction of TP
achieved from non-point sources is 50% because of the way in which river water is used for irrigation
throughout the year, the effect of implementing YEP is expected to avoid the significant danger that
treantrent of water from the Waihai becomes impossible without resorting to much more advanced and
expensive forms of water treatment in WTWs using Waihai water. This is illustrated by Figure No. 2.
The water quality studies highlighted the need for further detailed studies of.
- the mechanism and effect of retention of non-point source TP within the catchment
- the capacity of the lake to absorb phosphorus;
- the biological processes taking place in the lake.
These studies should be carried out during the YEP implementation as part of the environmental
monitoring of the project
page 23 of 28



Addendum
Figure No 2 Predicted Effect of Implementation of YEP on TP Levels in Lake Diancbi
lbis is based on no future increase in non-point sourcs ofTP 1ad 50% effective ranoval of TP in mn-off from non-point
sources as a rsult of current irrigation practices
0£              - - - - - -  - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Worst Case
T            DANGER ZONE FOR              Do Nothing More
0A4              WATER TREATMENI                                y
03       -         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _, - - -          
E
C- IE
V A  INCREASIN/G
F  02 -       | DIFFICULTIES W7TH
WATER TREATMENT
0.1-                                                            Zero TP
%x   from 1996
- - -x
u-:     z      :      I      :     :..                  ;I
1920  1930  1940  1950  1960  1970  1980  1990, 2000  2010  2020
Year
Issue No io- R     i. r  orEP
Atfiough the project is quite clearly intended to address and inprove te environmentaf and,
indirecty. living conditkons of about 3 million people or more, the "beneficiries" are barely
mentroned at alL Wha are people 'sperceptions. priorities, concerns demand or willingness to
pay or to connect to the sewer services? What about the importance of public education?-
People's Perceptons, Priorities, Concerns, Demands and  illingness to Pay
There is no doubt that people in Kunming are very concerned about their deterioating enviroment
generally and Dianchi in particular. This is supported by evidence from two main sources:
Kunming AbDity and Willingness (A & W) to Pay Survey of 444 households (0.15% sample in
4 districts), which questioned people's knowledge and attitudes about environmental problems
(Kunming Institute of Social Sciences, July 1995)
page 24 of 28
.,



EA Report
* Surveys done as part of the EA process - quoted in EA Report (Section 7).
The Kunming A & W Survey found that
*  the vast majority (nearly 1 000/e of respondents) connect environmental quality with human health,
but their understanding of the links between pollution and human health was limited
* respondents first priorities, in ranked order, for improving the environment are: reduce air
pollution; reduce noise levels; clean up canals, rivers and drains; and improve public gardens and
spaces.
*  many respondents were prepared to contribute time, labour or funds to clean up the environment,
especially in their own neighbourhoods. However, mechanisms for public participation and
action are not well developed - there is some uncertainty about the responsibilities for pollution
control between govenunent agencies, the private sector and communities in a fast changing
economy.
*  in open-ended questioning, 20% of respondents stated that the main solution to environmental
problems lies with govemment action to enforce existing environmental legislation and to
improve urban planning. This was the single most important issue raised by respondents
themselves. Respondents also want the service agencies to improve the quality of service if the
tariff increases - there was some scepticism that higher costs would translate into a better service.
*  water charges currently comprise only 0.4% of mean total household income. All services (water,
power, sanitation - paid by a few households only - and solid waste) amount to just 4% of total
household income.
*  whilst 72%/o of respondents are willing to pay more for better quality water supplies, only 57o are
willing to pay for sewerage. Yet fully 75% are willing to help pay a small extra (mean *8 per
month) charge to clean up Dianchi. With good public education, this could be translated into
more support for the proposed sewerage charges.
The Rapid Rural Appraisal Survey (Yunnan Institute of Geography, October 1995) in Dianchi
Catchment found a lower tevel of concern about the environmenL Environmental protection is seen
as having costs which do not necessarily benefit farmers - for example the restrictions on TVE
development in the Songhuaba Catchment penalise local people. Market demand and low prices for
fertilisers and pesticides ensure that farmers keep using these substances - although some farmers
themselves prefer to eat organically grown vegetables.
Project Beneficiaries
Table No. 6 summarises the ponulations who will benefit from the different components of the YEP
and summarises the key benefits.
Public Education
Public education has been recommended be an integral part of YEP. Good public education programs
are needed to address key issues such as water demand management, sewer connections, solid waste
management, the tariff structure, fertiliser and pesticide use and on what people can do themselves to
help address the complex causes underlying environmental deterioration. The options are:
* add public education to selected World Bank funded components;
* invest in a separate public education component through World Bank funding, other donor
funding or through PRC resources.
Kunming Municipal Health personnel prepared an environmental health surveillance/public education
project proposal which could be reactivated if a donor can be found.
Public education could also help in the critical area of water demand, e.g. fixing water leaks at home.
A programme for service intermediaries (street committees, work units,. etc.) would help make the
higher tariff a more efficient mechanism for reducing water demand. Presently, the intermediary units
diffuse the relationship between the tariff and demand through a range of user fees and subsidies.
page 25 of 28



Table No 6 Beneficiaries and Benefits of YEP
Project       Population Benefitting                        Key Benefits
K'UNAG
Kunming          Population (in 2010) of    e increasing connections to sewerage systman of each STW;
Wastewater       area served by:          * improved street drainage and odour problems as sewerage
Project          STW No I - 320.000          system is improved;
STW No 4B - 237,000
STW No 5 - 167,000
Entire population of     *      reduced pollusion of rivers and Lake Dianchi;
Kunming and living in    * long-term inprovements in river and lake ecosystems;
towns and villages around   * reduced risk of waterbomne diseases
Lake Dianchi             * long-tern reduction in water supply costs.
Kunming Solid    Entire population of     * improved aesthetic situation in city fron new collection
Waste Project    Kusming urban area          equipment, transfer stations and work practices;
served by KMESS -        * reduced incidence of injury and poisoning fromn illegal waste
1,800,000 (I995) rising to  disposal within the city;
2,200,000 (2005)         * reduced rodent breeding and associated diseases from illegal
waste dumping;
* reduced pollution of surfice and groundwater as a result of
clean-up of existing uncontrolled dumps;
* release of commercially valuable land for developmeni (or open
space) from clean-up of existing dumps;
* secure sanitary landfill of municipal solid waste avoiding
__________  _______________                   groundwater and surface water drainage.
Kunming Water    Population of Kumming    * more secure water supply with better flows and delivery
Supply           urban area served by        pressures;
KWSC - 1,500,000 (1995)  * increasing connections to water supply system from 84% of
rising to 2,100,000 (2010)  popuation in 1995 to 90% in 2020.
Population of area of city   * higherwater supply quality as Songhuaba water is used instead
served by WTWs drawing     of Lake Dianchi water.
water from Lake Dianchi -
- 1,000,000
ChenggDng        Population served by STW   * increasing comnections to sewerage system;
Wastewater       - 98,000 (X010)          a imnproved street drainage and odour problems as sewerage
systen is built.
Population around local    * reduced pollution of rivers and Lake Dianchic
rivers and Lake Dianchi    * long-term improvements in river and lake ecosysems
* reduced risk of waterbome diseases.
Jinning          Population served by STW   * increasing connections to sewerage system;
Wastewater       - 60,000 (2010)           * improved street drainage and odour problems as sewerage
system is built
Population around local    * reduced poDution of rivers and Lake Dianchi;
rivers and Lake Dianchi    * long-term improvements in river and lake cosystms;
* reduced risk of waterborne diseases.
Rumal Sanitation    Families and population of  * improved agriculture and reduced health risks from use of
pilot villages - Xiaohe    conpost and/or digested waste as soil conditioner;
(population 4,300),      * gas for heating and cooking fiom waste digesters;
Dounan (5,000) and       * improved water supply from improved network;
Wulong (3,000) (as       * reduced polution of local ponds and watercourses fromn
appropriate)               provision of sewerage system and tement;
* yield of plants and fish from pond sewage treatment system.



Table No 6 (continued) Beneficiaries and Benefits of YEP
Project      Population Benefitting                        Key Benefits
G EJIU           __   _  _  _  _  _  _     -__    __   _  _  __-__       _   _  __  _   -_  _  _
Gejiu Wastewater  Population served by STW   * increasing connections to sewerage system;
- 160.000 (2010)         * improved drainage and odour problems as sewerage is built.
Population around local    * reduced pollution of rivers and Lake Gejiu;
rivers and Lake Gejiu   *  long-tem improvements in river and lake ecosystems;
* reduced risk of waterborne diseases.
QUJING
Qujing           Population served by STW   * increasing connections to sewerage system;
Wasewater        - 410,000 (ZO1)          * improved drainage and odour problems as sewerage is built
Population living around    * reduced pollution of NanpanJiang and other rivers;
local rivers            *  long-term improvements in river ecosystems;
* reduced risk of waterbome diseases.
Qujing Water     Population of Qujing     * more secure water supply, better flows and delivery pressures;
Supply           urban area served by     * increasing connections to water supply system from 87% of
QWDC -410,000 (2010)       population in 1995 to 90Ye in 2020.
Qujing Solid     Population of Qujing     * improved aesthetic siuation in city from new collection
Waste            urban area served by        equipment, transfer stations and work practices;
QMESS - -200,000 (1995)  * reduced incidence of injury and poisoning from ilegal waste
rising to 430,000 (2005)   disposal witiin the city,
* reduced pollution of surface and groundwater as a result of
clean-up of existing uncontrolled dumps;
.  release of commercially valuable land for development (or open
space) from clean-up of existing dumps;
* secure sanitary landfill of municipal solid waste avoiding
groundwater and surface water drainagc
INDUSTRLAL POLLUTION CONTROL
Kunming CFF      Population living around    * reduced air pollution;
factory and adjacent to  * reduced pollution of Lake Dianchi;
Lake Dianchi            * long-tm improvements in lak-e ecosystens;
a long-term reduction in water supply costs
Factory stakeholders and    * improved working environment
families - 10,000       * improved health and safty-,
a more secure work opportunities;
* improved profits.
Kunyang PFF      Population living around    * reduced air pollution;
factory and adjacent to  a reduced pollution of Lake Dianchi;
Lake Dianchi            * long-term improvements in lake and river ecosystems;
* long-term reduction in water supply costs
Factory stakeholders and    * improved working environment
families - 3,000        a improved health and safety;
* more secure work opportunites;
I  imnproed profits.
OTHER
Environmental    All populations served by 7    improved water, air and soil environment;
Management and  the projects and living   * improved ecosystem;
Monitoring       around the rivers and lakes  * improved awareness of the envimmnent;
of the three cities     * reducing costs of environmental management
Institutional    All populations seved by   o improved water, air and soil e_vironment
Strengthening    the projects and living  e improved ecosystem;
around the rivers and lakes  * irnproved awareness of the enviromnent;
of the three cities     * reducing costs of environmemtal management



Addendum
Demandfor Sewerage
Demand for indoor sewerage is not great in Kumning. The A & W Survey found less than 10% of the
4CM of households not currently served want indoor WCs. Only 43% of households surveyed had an
indoor bathroom, so it is difficult to see where they would put an indoor WC. Survey data for Qujing
and Gejiu are not available but the constraints are expected to be similar. The key constraints are
tangible (cost, space and custom) and cannot really be overcome by "compelling" people. The
measures which have been recommended to boost sewerage coverage include:
* public education, e.g. highlighting the problem of Dianchi and the environmental health issues;
* more low-cost, accessible sewered alternatives e.g. communal WCs;
* new housing progams to include indoor sewered WCs.
Implementing these measures requires good baseline data on zxisting services - and a public
education programme. A programme of dissemination is planned as part of the projecL
ssue iNo t1 ampemPntnri  o eYEP
How wiul implementation of the YEP actally be co-ordinated and carried out by the agencies
of rheprovincio and mwicipal governments of Ywma?
During project preparation since 1994, work has been co-ordinated by YEPQ, a special project office
established under the management and direction of YEPB. In the project cities of Kunming, Qujing,
and Gejiu, similar project offices (KEPO, QEPO and GEPO) were established to co-ordinate the
preparation of the sub-projects for the three cities. These offices report to YEPO.
It has now been agreed by the different levels of People's Governments that
- project funds be on-lent by the provincial government to the municipal implementing agencies
(water and drainage companies, city appearance committees, etc.) and the two fertiliser industries,
which will be responsible for repaying the individual loans; and,
* the implementing agencies will be directly responsible for implementing the components of the
project under their control and operating the works or project components that will be part-funded
by the World Bank.
The co-ordination of the overall project implementation will be the responsibility of YEPO on behalf
of the Yunnan Provincial Govenment The project offices, implementing agencies and design
institutes will continue to be advised on the management of the YEP by the DRA Consultants,
Montgomery Watson Ltd, whose contract runs until the end of 1996. Technical assistance packages
fonn an early part of the World Bank funded project to achieve the institutional strengthening
necessary to assist the various agencies concerned to implement the YEP successfully.
' * * * $* *-* * * *
page 28.f28



Appendices
Appendix I   Preliminary List ofKey Variables to Iake Dianchi Ecosystem Recovery
1. Generl
- pollution control (point and non-point sources)
2. Related to submersed macrophyte recovery
- nutrient concentration
- chlorophyll-a
- wind and wave action
- sediment structure
- transparency of the water
- benthivorous fish
- presence and condition of seeds in the sediment
- toxicity of the rooting zone in the sediment
- filter feeders
3. Related to eco-toxicological effects of contaminated sediments
- spatial differences in (type of) contamination
- bio-availability and bio-accumulation ofthe contaminants
4. Related to hydrology
- retention time of the lake water
- annual changes in water level
- occurrence and duration of shore or bank inundations
3. Related to bio-productivity
- food web structure and energy flows through it
6. Related to morphology
- shore/itoal morphology
- suitability of littoral zones as spawning grounds to fish
7. Related to socio-economical aspects
- sustainable fisheries and aquaculture
- feasibility of recreation
page I of 3



Appendices
Appendix 2 Data on FiLh Fauna and Catehes in Lake Dianchi
Table 1 Lake Dianchi Fish Fauna in late 1980s
A. Surviving Indigenous Species
Anabarilius alburnops
Xenocypris yunnaensis
Cyprinus carpio ckilk& .................. ....... (ci)
Carassius auratus auratus .           (ci)
Misgurnus anguillicaudatus
Oryzias latipes
Monopterus alba
B. Surviving Introduced Species
Cuiter erythropterus ............. ......... fci)
Neosalanx tangkahkeu taikuensis ................. (ci)
C:enopharyngodon idellus ......................  (ci)
Toxabramis swinhonis
Toxabramis hoffnani
Hemicufder lezcisculus
Parabramispekensis
Megaiobrama ainblycephala
Rhodeus sinensis
Rhodeus ocellaths
Pseudoperilampus light
Acanthorhodeus macropterus
Acanthorhodeus tanionalis
HypophhalmichAys molitrix ...................... (ci)
Aristichtlys nobiis   . .................. (ci)
Cyprinus carpio rubrofJiscus ......................... (ci)
Pseudorasborapava
Henibarbus maculatus
Sarcocheiic4ays n. nigripining
Abottina rividaris
Siniperca sp.
Rhinogobius girmnus
Hypseleotris swinhonis
Hyporhampius intermedius
Note: Further changes are believed to have occured since this study but precise data are not available.
Commercially important species marked .... (ci).
Sounc. HJi-chang & Liu Zhcn.hua; Journal of Yunnan Univrsiy. VoL 7.1985.
page 2 of 3



Appendfic
Appendix 2 Data on Fi'sh Fauna and Catches in L-ake Dianchi (continued)
Table 2 Production of Fish and Shellfish from Lake Dianchi; 1984 to 1994 (tonnes)
Year    Large Fish Neosalani  Other Fish    Shrimp   Mofussa  Totals
1984        1600        3500        300        1500        1500       8400
1985        1500         360        1600       3200        1150       7810
1986        3200        2200        800        1500        400        8100
1987        3400        3200        400        1800        300        9100
1988        2800        2300        900        2500         250       8750
1989        2300        2500        1200       3000         100       9100
1990        4500        1100        1700       1200         200       8700
1991        2730         500        1690       2780         280       7980
1992        2210         350        520        4920        200        8200
1993        1300         400        200        5600          10       7510
1994        3040         200         -         3800         300       7340
No=t Figurcs rounded to nearest ten tonnes
Source: Kunimng Municipal Fishcrics Adminstratimi and Management Departnt
Table 3 Fisheries Sector - Economic Data - Lake Dianchi Area
Capture        Cage        Pond Fish      Totals
Fishinag      Culture      Culture
Direct Employment            7380         240          3300          10920
Ancillary workers (Fish traders,
Boat buildes, etc. estimatd)  1000        -             -            1000
8380         240          3300          11920
Totals, including families
(x3.5)                  29330         840         11550          41720
Annual Fish Production (tonnes) 7340      2050         4020           13410
Producer Price ( Wlg )        .8.0         13.0         9.0             -
Catch Value (* million)       58.7         26.6         36.2           121.5
Notw Sociological studies shaw that rural family sie frequently avaage up to 5 pesons. A conservative estimate of 3.5 has
bee adopted in tfis case for lack of more precise data on fishing comnunities.
Reail mrket values have not been investigated but the mark-up may be xpected to amount to between 50% and !OOY of
the producer prie.
page 3 of 3






