                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 32364-CHA




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (IDA-28920 SCL-40550)

                                         ON A

                                  LOAN AND CREDIT

                                  IN THE AMOUNT OF

          US$125 MILLION AND SDR 17.4 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                              PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                        FOR A

                            YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                                      June 28, 2005




Urban Sector Development Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Renminbi Yuan (RMB Y)
                                       Y 1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                        US$ 1 = Y 8.3

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31


                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BTO       Back-to-Office Report
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DEAP      Dianchi Environmental Action Plan
EA        Environmental Assessment
EPCSL     Environmental Pollution Control Subloans Facility
GOC       Government of China
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
KDC       Kunming Drainage Company
MOF       Ministry of Finance
ODA       Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PAP       Project Affected Persons
PSR       Project Status Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
STW       Sewage Treatment Works
TA        Technical Assistance
TM (TTL)  Task Manager (Task Team Leader)
WTP       Water Treatment Plant
YEPO      Yunnan Environment Project Office




                               Vice President:   Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                            Country Director:    Mr. David Dollar, EACCF
                              Sector Director:   Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                           Task Team Leader:     Ms. Shenhua Wang, EASUR

                                            CHINA
                           YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Experiences in Land Acquisition and Resettlement                        30
Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's Project Evaluation                                31

Project ID: P003599                                                  Project Name: YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Shenhua Wang                                            TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-28920; SCL-40550
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (81%);
                            Petrochemicals and fertilizers (11%); Sub-national government
                            administration (8%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Water resource
                            management (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other urban
                            development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/16/1994                                     Effective:                           03/12/1997
     Appraisal: 03/20/1996                                         MTR:                             10/19/1999
      Approval: 06/25/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Yunnan Province
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Mr. Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Mr. David R. Dollar                            Mr. Nicholas Hope
Sector Director:                Mr. Keshav Varma                               Ms. Katherine Sierra
Team Leader at ICR:             Ms. Shenhua Wang                               Mr. Geoffrey Read
ICR Primary Author:             Mr. Herbert Boehm


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
QAG did not review this project for quality at entry.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background.

Rapid urbanization, industrialization and income growth in the 1980s and 1990s exerted great pressure on
urban environmental services in Yunnan Province. Pollution loads in urban centers had destroyed potable
water sources, reduced agricultural yields, and ended recreational use of a number of lakes. The worst
conditions were found in Kunming, the capital city of Yunnan, and the adjacent Lake Dianchi. The
environmental situation was also quite severe in the cities of Gejiu and Qujing. The State and Provincial
Governments therefore set up a phased development program for the Province to improve environmental
conditions on a sustainable basis. The major aim of the Yunnan Environment Project was thus to assist the
Borrower in carrying out the first phase of this program.

The project's objectives were to: (a) strengthen policies, regulations and institutional arrangements for
pollution control, and municipal water, wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil management; (b) support the
improvement of the lakes environment in Gejiu and Kunming in order to allow the waters to be used for
potable supply, industry or agriculture as appropriate; (c) facilitate complementary sustainable investments
in pollution control and municipally provided urban environmental services; and (d) introduce a
comprehensive approach to planning, prioritization, and financing of urban environmental infrastructure
investments.

Assessment of Objectives.

The Project objectives firmly reflected China's and Yunnan Province's desire and commitment to
improving the environment. The Bank's China Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board in
June 1995, also considered environmental protection as one of four major areas of focus. The project
objectives correctly embraced not only the needed physical infrastructure improvements, but to a large
degree the regulatory, institutional and management improvements of urban entities entrusted with
implementing environmental policies and programs, since environmental services in China are fittingly
provided at the municipal level. This dual aim was particularly appropriate because in the past,
Bank-supported projects achieved good physical progress but were somewhat less successful in terms of
overall sector development and financial viability. Focusing on institutional and sustainability aspects, the
project objectives pointedly addressed these past deficiencies.

The objectives fully supported China's Environmental Action Plan and the so-called Agenda 21; the latter
provided the basis for joint Government and Bank programs in the environmental sector, particularly in
urban areas. Furthermore, the objectives took into account the most critical environmental problems
affecting Yunnan Province after its rapid economic growth from development in industry and the service
sector in the 1980's and early 90's. Urban services, especially water supply, wastewater and solid waste
removal became increasingly deficient. The investments proposed under the project also firmly supported
the Dianchi Environment Action Plan and similar plans for Qujing and Gejiu. These plans called for the
immediate and comprehensive reversal of environmental degradation in the most environmentally
challenged cities in the Province. The design thus was consistent with these objectives.

The project objectives refrained from promising complete clean-up of the environment through this project.
Rather, the project explicitly intended to be the first part of a phased development program that
realistically, comprehensively and cautiously aimed at supporting necessary improvements to permit the



                                                       - 2 -

eventual reversal of the environmental decline in the Province.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the project was restructured in the fall of 2002 to include three new components, but the original
objectives did not require revision.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had five components comprising a mix of policy and investment initiatives, as outlined below.

Component 1: Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery (US$199.6 million). Investments
supported the Dianchi Environmental Action Plan (DEAP), and included control of point and non-point
pollution in the Dianchi Lake Basin through improved catchment management, wastewater and stormwater
collection, treatment and disposal, improved collection, transport and disposal of municipal solid waste and
night soil, remediation of polluting practices causing lake eutrophication, and measures to strengthen
Dianchi Lake basin management, and improvements to basin water resource allocation.

Component 2: Industrial Pollution Control (US$34.1 million). Investments were provided to abate
industrial pollution from enterprises identified in the DEAP as most threatening to basin resources. The
clean-up was to focus on two fertilizer plants, found to be the top-ranked industrial polluters of Lake
Dianchi, and support was also provided to abate pollution from smaller polluting enterprises through an
Environmental Pollution Control Subloans Facility.

Component 3: Provincial Urban Environmental Services (US$48.6 million). Investments were in
catchment management, wastewater and stormwater collection and treatment systems to protect Gejiu Lake
and the Nanpanjiang River, as well as selected investments in water supply extension and improved solid
waste collection in Qujing.

Component 4: Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring (US$6.2 million). This component was
to provide support for upgrading and modernizing environmental management and water quality
information and monitoring systems.

Component 5: Institutional Development, Training and Construction Supervision (US$19.1 million).
This provided technical assistance (TA) to strengthen provincial, municipal, project and financial
management, construction supervision, training in utility operations, updating city environmental action
plans and feasibility studies, and to prepare future operations.

Assessment of Project Design
Overall, project design, conceived as the first of a multi-stage approach, was appropriate, albeit quite
ambitious considering that virtually none of the large number of project entities had adequate experience in
implementing large and complex projects, particularly in the areas of wastewater treatment and solid waste
management, and had almost no prior experience in executing projects under international financing.
Nevertheless, to assist in the recovery of the Lake Dianchi Basin, the Gejiu Lake and the Nanpanjiang
River, the principal focus of the Yunnan Environment Project, a multifaceted and comprehensive approach
was necessary. Thus, the broad spectrum of the project design encompassed the major sources of
pollution, i.e., industry, household wastewater and solid waste, and non-point pollution. In addition, it
correctly targeted improvements in the regulatory, institutional, and financial framework needed to
effectively implement the project and to ensure long-term safeguards and financial and economic
sustainability of the improvements achieved under the project.




                                                      - 3 -

While the project's policy and regulatory improvements were aimed at the whole Province, the majority of
the physical investments (about 80% of total costs) were limited to the capital city of Kunming, and to the
cities of Qujing and Gejiu. Clearly, the project's main focus in terms of investment was put on stemming
the further environmental decline of Dianchi Lake, Gejiu Lake and their associated river systems. The
project focus was entirely consistent with the Province's environmental policies and fully supported the
State Government's official "Three Rivers Three Lakes Program" which comprises the Huaihe, Haihe and
Liaohe Rivers and Taihu, Chaohu and Dianchi Lakes. The second project objective specifically names
both water bodies. Interestingly, Qujing, the fastest growing city in Yunnan, was not explicitly named in
the project objectives. Similarly, the small towns sanitation component and the rural sanitation component
could have received more prominent mentioning in the objectives as they expand the mainly urban focus of
the project and also address non-point pollution, a major source of lake and river pollution.

In hindsight, the question can be raised whether in light of the institutional constraints, the design of this
first phase of the development program to improve the environmental conditions of Yunnan Province
should have been scaled back to a proportion which would have been less demanding and more achievable
within the original project implementation period.

3.4 Revised Components:
The mid-term review exercise in October 1999 found that (a) substantial savings from the Industrial
Pollution Control Component would be realized because the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory was
completed without Bank financing; (b) the proposed second phase of Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer
Factory, which had no direct impact on the water quality of Lake Dianchi, would be delayed beyond the
expected project implementation period; and (c) a number of savings accumulated due to reserved
procurement on contracts that had to be expedited in the run-up to the 1999 World Horticultural Exposition
and because of lower than expected contract prices. In light of these savings, it was agreed to add three
new components consistent with the project objectives: (1) solid waste management for Shilin Autonomous
County to primarily benefit the popular attraction of the Stone Forest area; (2) wastewater treatment and
collection for the city of Mengzi; and (3) wastewater treatment and collection for the city of Xuanwei.
These new investments received the same rigorous review and evaluation as the original components,
including technical and economic feasibility, environmental impact assessment and resettlement analysis. It
was further agreed to extend technical assistance support to these components to ensure timely
implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry of the project was not assessed by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The ICR
rates quality at entry as moderately satisfactory because the project's assumptions concerning the project
agencies' capacity to implement the project turned out to be too optimistic.

In contrast, the project's consistency with the Bank's CAS as well as with government's environmental
priorities and action plans weigh on the positive side of the ICR rating. Also the comprehensive design and
approach to tackle the intricate solutions to initiate the recovery of a large lake basin, such as Dianchi
Lake, also fall on the positive side of the rating. Environmental degradation of large water bodies is
exceedingly complex and requires finding optimal and economically feasible approaches as to how to
achieve a reversal of long-term deterioration. While the main culprits, such as industrial effluents,
untreated urban wastewater and solid waste, can normally be identified, other sources, such as agricultural
non-point pollution, and small township and village pollution are more difficult to identify and correct. The
project did an innovative job in striking a balance between the large urban centers and the rural areas.

Because of the project's complexity and size, not all investment proposals were prepared by the design



                                                       - 4 -

institutes as thoroughly as desired. In Kunming, for example, an updated sewerage master plan was not
available until late into project execution. A number of technical feasibility studies lacked essential
information, such as geotechnical data needed for tunneling and pipe-jacking. Moreover, the institutional
assessment of project offices and implementation agencies was overly optimistic as at project start-up, most
of them were neither fully staffed nor trained with many lacking basic familiarity with Bank procurement
guidelines. This resulted in severe implementation delays, amounting to over one year at the time of the
mid-term review, and ultimately contributed to the need to extend the Loan/Credit by two years.

Risk Assessment

Almost eight pages in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were devoted to systematically and realistically
analyzing the project's potential risks and proposing mitigation measures. The risks identified were: (a)
municipal counterpart funding jeopardizing project financing; (b) delays in transforming utilities,
particularly wastewater treatment entities, to autonomous enterprises; (c) financial uncertainties of the
companies borrowing funds under the industrial pollution component; (d) potential operational failures by
enterprises under the industrial pollution component to properly operate their pollution abatement
investments; (e) resistance by the respective authorities to timely implement tariff adjustments for water
and wastewater to ensure financial viability of the utilities under the project; (f) reluctance by industry and
the authorities to constrain pollutants at source possibly offsetting gains achieved through the project; and
(g) potential pollution from other sources outside the project cities, such as nonpoint source pollutants from
agriculture.

The risks identified were comprehensive but lacked precision and prioritization. It may have been desirable
to weight the risks by the likely probability as to the extent they could jeopardize the outcome of the
project. Furthermore, the main factor which caused substantial implementation problems remained
unidentified, namely the weak capacity building efforts of the project entities to carry out procurement
under the Bank's guidelines. In contrast, the precipitous steel price increases beginning in Fall 2002 could
have hardly been anticipated at the time of project appraisal.

Compliance with Safeguard Policies

The project's compliance with safeguard policies was exemplary. While the project's main focus was to
significantly improve the water quality in the most populated areas in Yunnan, especially that of Lake
Dianchi and Gejiu Lake, potential adverse effects of the planned interventions required the classification of
the project as a "Category A" in accordance with the World Bank's Directive on Environmental
Assessment (EA). Consequently, a comprehensive EA was prepared, reviewed by the Bank and approved
by the Borrower. The recommendations of the EA were fully complied with during project implementation.
In particular land acquisition and resettlement, relatively modest for the project size, were strictly handled
according to the detailed resettlement action plan (RAP). Socio-economic surveys of project affected
persons (PAPs) belonging to minority groups, defined in the RAPs, were carried out satisfactorily. (For
more details on land acquisition and resettlement see Annex 8). In 1997, a four-member team of the
Southwest Jiatong University made an initial field assessment, and in particular, gathered relevant opinions
of PAPs. The group reported that land acquisition and resettlement proceeded in accordance with the
official Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan. In 1999, the QAG reviewed the project's supervision and
found that safeguard policies were followed. Several of QAG's recommendations concerning resettlement,
compensation and impact on PAPs were followed, and the September 2000 supervision mission confirmed
that results were satisfactory.

When three new components were added during the mid-term review, complete EAs and RAPs were


                                                       - 5 -

prepared. The impact of the new components on minority populations was also taken into account. After
incorporating comments by the Bank, the documents were deemed sound.

The Kunming urban sewer network component was finalized only in 2001, quite late during project
implementation. Detailed design preparation started after the Kunming municipal government had prepared
the sewer master plan for the Kunming's central areas in May 2001. It was envisaged that the construction
would cause considerable traffic problems and inconveniences to business and residents. The Bank
therefore insisted on the development of a social impact assessment in addition to the normal environmental
impact assessment and a RAP. Social design institutes in Kunming were subsequently asked to closely
monitor possible adverse effects from this massive in-city construction program.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project is expected to achieve its main original development objectives over the long-term. The ICR
ratings for the specific objectives (see Section 3.1) are given in Table 4.1.



                          Table 4.1: Outcome/Achievement Ratings of Objectives



                                   Project Objective                                      Rating
(1) Strengthen policies, regulations and institutional arrangements for pollution    Satisfactory
     control, and municipal water, wastewater, solid waste and night soil
     management
(2) Support the improvement of the lakes environment in Gejiu and Kunming            Highly
                                                                                     satisfactory
(3) Facilitate complementary sustainable investments in pollution control and        Satisfactory
     municipally-provided urban environmental services
(4) Introduce a comprehensive approach to planning, prioritization,                  Satisfactory
     management, and financing of urban environmental infrastructure
     investments.



As specified in the first objective, Yunnan Province and the project cities have strengthened regulations and
institutions to improve water, wastewater and solid waste management. The project put the need for
autonomous and financially self-reliant utility companies firmly in the foreground, with the Bank
highlighting, on an on-going basis, that sustainability can only be achieved if the enterprises are allowed to
take complete responsibility for the management and financial well-being of their operations. The newly
created wastewater utilities and solid waste management enterprises have only recently been put into
operation, and while self-reliance has not yet been achieved, the process (which will require political
support) towards reaching these goals has been put into place.

As stipulated in the second objective, significant environmental benefits have accrued to the Dianchi Lake
Basin and other water bodies in the project areas as a result of successful wastewater interception and
treatment, and the disposal of solid waste in the sanitary landfills constructed under the project. While the
degradation of water quality in Lake Dianchi appears to have been arrested, the longer term goal for
reversal to the point where lake water would again be a source for potable water (with only a minimum of


                                                      - 6 -

treatment) has not yet been achieved. Since most of the wastewater and solid waste investments have only
recently been put into operation, and further actions are needed to control industrial pollution, a dramatic
turnaround of such a large water body as Dianchi Lake would be quite unrealistic. The results achieved in
the much smaller Lake Gejiu, however, are impressive.

The third objective was met in a satisfactory manner. Investments in water supply, wastewater and solid
waste management exceeded SAR expectations. Moreover, at mid-term three additional components were
added, further supporting environmental improvements in Yunnan. Although the industrial pollution
investments were implemented largely without Bank funding, the results fully met the project objectives.
The rating of this project objective could have been even higher if doubts about long-term viability and
sustainability of the newly created wastewater and solid waste utilities could have been put to rest.
Benefiting from the institutional requirement of the project, all the water and wastewater entities within the
project scope have been reformed from municipal departments to companies with self-accounting and
financial responsibilities. Significant progress has been achieved on tariff adjustments. The municipal
governments have plans and policies in place for the above-mentioned water and wastewater companies to
fully cover costs, capital expenditures and debt service within the next three years. Among the solid waste
management entities, only Kunming Domestic Solid Waste Transportation and Disposal Center remains a
municipal department. All others have been reformed to utility companies. Full cost recovery, including
capital expenditures and debt service, will be achieved later than for the water/wastewater companies. The
government has readied a five-year plan to achieve full cost recovery for them.

The achievements with regard to the fourth objective are satisfactory. On the positive and more general
side, the development of a longer term plan for improving the environment of Yunnan Province and the
greater degree of understanding of the underlying issues and future requirements on the part of key
provincial government agencies are noteworthy. In particular, the Provincial Planning Commission can be
singled out as an agency with comprehensive vision equipped with the needed tools for solid planning and
the capacity to propose priority interventions. Also, the project utilities substantially improved their
planning and financial forecasting capabilities during the project. On the negative side, however, at the
level of individual agencies and jurisdictions, institutional strengthening in terms of procurement planning,
priority assessment, and construction and operational management was rather weak in the early stages of
implementation and therefore was rated unsatisfactory during this period. The proposed technical
assistance program under the Loan/Credit provided a considerable amount of training and hands-on
demonstration, but failed to an extent to provide the support required to overcome the initial management
and institutional constraints of the newly created entities. Nevertheless, through the project, all the project
entities have substantially increased their management capacities. In view of the continued enterprise
reform process in China, these project entities will be monitored with the aim of improving their
management performance even after the external (international and domestic) experts have withdrawn.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Overall project outputs were satisfactory. As described earlier, the project design was appropriate and
location-specific to fulfill the quite broadly defined objectives. Construction quality in general was
satisfactory, with systematic monitoring and vigilant follow-up by consultants.      During field visits,
supervision missions also carefully observed and commented on construction quality.

The ratings of the main component outputs are given in Table 4.2 and explained thereafter.




                                                       - 7 -

                                       Table 4.2: Component Ratings

      Component                                                                        Rating
(a) Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality                                                 Satisfactory
(b) Industrial Pollution Control                                                     Satisfactory
 (c) Provincial Urban Environmental Services                                     Highly satisfactory
(d) Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring                                       Satisfactory
 (e) Institutional Development, Training and Construction Supervision          Marginally satisfactory
 (f) Added Components                                                                Satisfactory



(a) Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery

In Kunming, two landfills in Hongshuitang and Baishuitang with a daily capacity of 1,500 tons including
collection and transportation, and transfer stations were built. The landfills, which include leachate and gas
collection and treatment, have successfully resolved the solid waste management problems of Kunming city
and thereby prevented untreated run-off and the illegal dumping of solid waste into Lake Dianchi. In order
to lengthen the service life of the landfills, recycling policies and waste minimization strategies have been
introduced and efforts to improve their effectiveness are underway.

Completed in 2003, the water supply project in Kunming enables the city to provide 100% coverage of
potable water to all residents. The project comprised the construction of a new water treatment plant
(WTP) at Beijiaochang with a daily capacity of 100,000 m3, the expansion of the existing WTP No.1 by
70,000 m3 per day, and the laying of a 16.5 km raw water pipeline from the Songhuaba reservoir to the
Beijiaochang WTP.

With about 40% of total project costs, the Kunming wastewater subcomponent was by far the largest
investment. It included the construction of upgraded and expanded facilities at Sewage Treatment Works
No. 1 to boost daily treatment capacity by 55,000 m3, and improved the facilities at Plant No. 4b and Plant
No. 5. The subcomponent also included the construction of 24 km of sewers, force mains and pump
stations. The recently completed works will provide Kunming with wastewater collection and treatment
with a total capacity of over 500,000 m3 per day, sufficient to handle approximately 95% of the city's total
wastewater. Effluents fully meet national standards. The project consequently was able to remove one of
the main sources of pollution of Dianchi Lake and the Panlong River.

Under the small towns wastewater subcomponent, the project included wastewater treatment plants in the
towns of Chenggong and Jinning with a capacity of 15,000 m3 per day each, together with associated trunk
and sewer pipelines. This resulted in an annual 5.5 m3 million reduction of effluents for each city. The
actual effluents, which now meet 100% of the national standards, had a drastic effect on the adjoining
waters of Lake Dianchi.

The rural sanitation subcomponent introduced pioneering work in ten villages on a pilot basis to
demonstrate the benefits of properly treating wastewater, refuse and agricultural waste products. It also
assisted in demonstrating environmentally sound techniques in composting, farmland terracing and the use
of renewable energy. The project has been very successful in expounding the benefits of reducing pollution
of Lake Dianchi and the Songhuaba catchments. It is encouraging to see that the communities themselves
have continued to invest in some of these areas after project completion. However, it is too early to predict
the project's replicability over the long term. This is one area which ought to be pursued in a possible



                                                        - 8 -

follow-on project.

(b) Industrial Pollution Control

In order to meet the Government's May 1, 1999 deadline to reduce industrial discharges into Lake Dianchi,
the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Plant was compelled to implement the proposed investment using its own
funds. Although taken out of the project, the investment fully achieved the originally planned reduction in
discharges of phosphorus to Lake Dianchi. The second fertilizer factory under the project, the Kunyang
Phosphate Fertilizer Plant, successfully constructed an in-house industrial wastewater plant, but dropped,
due to lack of counterpart funds, the intended second phase which was targeted at production-enhancing
technologies. The second phase was supposed to be a process upgrading proposal that in any case would
not have had an impact on the water quality of Lake Dianchi.

The Environmental Pollution Control Subloans Facility (EPCSL), which was originally designed as a
revolving fund, provided funding for pollution control projects to seven small industrial enterprises
throughout Yunnan. The interest rate for subproject lending, fixed at the same level throughout the project,
became uncompetitive with alternative sources of locally available funding. In the end, the facility proved
to be largely ineffective, non-revolving and financially troubled. Overall, it did little to contribute to
environmental improvements within Yunnan.

Under this component two additional companies, the Yunfeng Paper Mill and the Kunming Steel General
Company, formerly two major polluters in the Dianchi Basin area, agreed to carry out their pollution
abatement action plans. As originally planned, funding for the necessary investments came from other than
Bank sources. The effective treatment of their discharges before they enter the Tanglangchuan River has
made a significant environmental difference to the Dianchi Basin.

(c) Provincial Urban Environmental Services

Under this component investments were aimed at solid waste management, water supply, wastewater
collection and treatment. The results of this component greatly exceeded original expectations.

In Gejiu, the project successfully initiated and established wastewater treatment, with a daily treatment
capacity of 25,000 m3, meeting national effluent standards. The sub-component further added sewers,
force mains and pumping stations, created eight settlement ponds, and built a 4.9 km service tunnel for
storm and wastewater. The wastewater treatment had a remarkable impact on the water quality of Lake
Gejiu since completion of the subcomponent in 2002 to the extent where bird and aquatic life has returned
to the lake. The tunnel has significantly reduced flood conditions in the city, sparing its residents the
frequent flood damage of the past and preventing other attendant hardship. The project has thus markedly
contributed to a better quality of life of its residents.
In Qujing, the city's first sanitary solid waste landfill was constructed with a daily capacity of 370 tons
replacing the aging existing, and now closed, landfill. A new water treatment facility was also built in
Qujing. Ancillary facilities included a 40 km raw water pipeline, a 9.3 km service tunnel and a distribution
pipeline of over 11 km. With its daily capacity of 60,000 m3, the city can now provide 100% coverage to
its residents. An 80,000 m3 per day wastewater treatment facility was built in the vicinity of the
confluence of the Baishi and Xiaoxiang Rivers. Related investments comprised sewers, force mains
extending over 8.3 km and ancillary equipment. The treatment process currently does not meet the
secondary treatment standards stipulated by the State, as this was not required at appraisal. Upgrading of
the plant is, however, contemplated. Even now this wastewater sub-component has significantly reduced
pollution of the local river systems.


                                                        - 9 -

(d) Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring

Under this relatively small component, the Kunming Environment Monitoring Center received a newly
equipped laboratory building which substantially improved its analytical and field monitoring capacity.
Also, the Yunnan Environmental Monitoring Center (together with environmental monitoring stations for
Qujing Municipality, Qujing City, Honghe Prefecture, and Gejiu City) was upgraded and its management
strengthened. The component appreciably improved the environmental information system and thus had
quite a positive impact on the analytical capacity of the participating institutes. It also helped to raise
public awareness of environmental issues in the three participating prefectures in Yunnan.

(e) Institutional Development, Training, and Construction Supervision

This component originally comprised nine composite packages for the benefit of the executing agencies
basically to carry out their responsibilities under the project. It also included support for provincial and
city sector agencies, master planning, future project preparation and other programs to be defined during
implementation. However, only $7 million (about half of the original funding) was actually expended. The
lack of adequate training, development and management, at least in the early project phase, plagued most of
the implementing agencies to the extent that Bank supervisions rated this component "unsatisfactory."
Because the project did not receive the level of technical assistance and training support at the very
beginning of the project (as designed at appraisal), the question arises as to whether this component was the
main cause for the slow progress of the project in the early phases.

At the same time, this component did have some remarkable successes strengthening construction
supervision, engineering design review, procurement management, quality control, and progress
monitoring. In addition, all training activities directed at the project implementing agencies were carried
out as originally designed, albeit with considerable delays. Training activities were also extended to the
agencies in charge of the three additional mid-term review components. The Borrower indicated that this
component substantially improved its capacity to efficiently execute and monitor projects.

(f) Additional Components

Three investments were added after the mid-term review: (a) Shilin solid waste management; (b)
wastewater collection and treatment in Mengzi; and (c) wastewater collection and treatment in Xuanwei.

Under the Shilin solid waste management subcomponent, a solid waste collection system and disposal site
were provided for the county-level town of Shilin and the renowned Stone Forest area. The associated
landfill was established with a daily capacity of 80 tons. With this system a welcome solution has been
created in this tourist mecca to handle all of the area's refuse in an environmentally friendly manner.

In Mengzi, a wastewater treatment facility with a daily capacity of 20,000 m3 was built together with
sewer pipelines extending over 5 km. Effluents fully meet national requirements. The facility drastically
reduced the pollution load for the Lijiang River and the Changqiaohai Lake.

A similar project was implemented for Xuanwei city. The treatment capacity, however, is somewhat larger
with a daily capacity of 30,000 m3 and the ancillary sewer distribution and force mains measuring almost
30 km. The treated wastewater, which fully meets national standards, has a positive effect on the Dong
River and the upper reaches of the Pearl River system.




                                                      - 10 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis to be employed for this project was subject to intensive discussion within the Bank.
An overall economic internal rate of return for the project was not calculated at the time of project
appraisal because it was felt that future benefits from certain sub-projects, such as solid waste management
and wastewater collection and treatment programs, were difficult to quantify. In particular, the project
impact on health, amenity, and commodity production uses could not be expressed in precise monetary
terms. Consequently, for the proposed investments in Gejiu and Qujing, alternative design options were
evaluated on the basis of the least-cost analysis method. The three additional sub-components in Shilin,
Mengzi and Xuanwei, proposed during the mid-term review, were also examined using least-cost analysis.

For investments impacting on the water quality of Lake Dianchi, the appraisal compared the proposed
investments with a "do nothing" scenario, which in the long-run would require increased treatment of the
water or increasingly foregoing the use of lake water and replacing it with water from sources at greater
distances. As Lake Dianchi supplies about 50% of Kunming's water, the damage of the "do nothing"
option would become increasingly more expensive. Such a damage analysis makes sense when all options
are still available, but does not make sense after an investment option has been implemented. Alternatively,
the prevention of pollution damage to Lake Dianchi could be assessed through the assessment of such
benefits as increased health conditions, higher fishing yields, and augmented touristic activities. However,
quantifications of such benefits lack a reasonable degree of confidence and therefore have been omitted
here. In addition, for health impact assessments, time series data over a finite period of time are required
but are not available.

For the water supply investments in Kunming, the appraisal compared the average economic incremental
benefits of the new supply with the willingness by the consumers to pay for this supply. As both resultant
values came approximately to the same result, it was presumed that the net present value of the investments
would most likely be positive. For a more precise quantification the staff appraisal report would have
needed more evidence on the shape of the demand curve which did not exist at the time. Because of the
lack of willingness-to-pay survey data to develop such a demand curve, the ICR is also unable to
reconstruct the appraisal analysis. Anecdotal evidence obtained by supervision missions indicate that the
residents of the project cities would not oppose full cost recovery water rates by the utilities as long as
water quality is maintained and the utilities are operated efficiently.

Solid waste landfill options were compared at appraisal with incineration alternatives, the latter of which
all proved to be economically much less attractive. At the time of the ICR, this conclusion has clearly not
changed for the four solid waste management projects under the project. The appraisal selected the
individual design options again on the basis of least-cost analysis. The same method was used for the new
solid waste component in Shilin.

For the two chemical fertilizer plants under the industrial pollution control component, the appraisal team
estimated an economic rate of return of 24% based of the fact that the annual discharge of phosphorus into
Lake Dianchi would decline from 93 tons to two tons per year. As stated, one of the plants dropped out of
the project, but implemented the work on its own, and for the other, only the wastewater treatment was
completed. The overall reduction of phosphorus discharge into Lake Dianchi was achieved nonetheless,
and it can be presumed that their investments turned out to be quite attractive. No economic analysis was
presented in the SAR for the relatively small environmental subloan facility (EPCSL).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were not estimated at appraisal. The SAR did provide useful information about
the public utilities in existence and provided financial reviews and projection summaries of all major



                                                     - 11 -

project agencies. In particular, it discussed in detail tariffs required to ensure that the entities would
comply with the Loan/Credit covenants and provide long-term viability.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact from the project has been modest. At the beginning of the
project, Yunnan Provincial Government had designated 13 agencies to implement the various components
of the project; the three new components raised this number to a total of 16. While the water supply
companies in Kunming and Qujing had been established previously, the wastewater companies were
converted from within municipal departments to self-accounting and self-funding enterprises to implement
the wastewater components of the project. However, at the end of project implementation, some of the
project enterprises continued to have limited autonomy, particularly with respect to financial performance.
In Qujing and Xuanwei, wastewater revenues are not channeled directly to the companies, but through the
respective municipal departments. A follow-up project to the Yunnan Environment Project would carefully
monitor developments in these critical areas.

Yunnan Province struggled throughout most of implementation to build up management capacity of the
participating agencies, particularly insofar as procurement processing, construction supervision, adequate
staffing and training were concerned. Lack of institutional strengthening, especially in the newly
established wastewater companies, extended over a period of six years. Concerns were especially raised
regarding the Qujing drainage and solid waste management agencies. Similarly, weaknesses in
procurement processing delayed a number of components and it took extraordinary efforts by Yunnan
Environment Project Office (YEPO), in conjunction with their consultants, to provide the necessary
training. Sewage treatment plants under the small towns component received needed special training from
other cities through collaborative arrangements for transfer of knowledge.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Global economic slowdown in the late 1990s, and especially the financial and economic crisis in Southeast
Asia in 1997/1998, had an overall negative effect on many provinces in China. However, because of the
World Horticultural Exposition, which took place in Kunming during the summer months of 1999, the
State and provincial governments provided extensive strategic and financial support to the project to
complete the bulk of the needed municipal infrastructure. These efforts primarily benefited the Kunming
solid waste landfills, the wastewater plant, the water supply project and the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer
Factory.

On the negative side, due to the extensive construction for the World Horticultural Exposition, the city
proper became highly occupied by infrastructures and buildings, the sewer system within the city proper
had to be redesigned for cost-effective implementation. In addition, a number of the civil works projects
were badly hit by the precipitous increase in steel prices beginning from Fall 2002. This development
caused a marked slow down in implementation of the Kunming sewer component.

A severe flood in the summer of 1996 caused major damage to the Gejiu wastewater component prompting
substantial design changes. These modifications had the beneficial effect of protecting the city and in
particular the sewer system against future flooding; this major redesign resulted in a significant, but in the
end worthwhile, delay in completing this component.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart funding caused delays in the beginning of the project because the approval and delegation
process was too cumbersome. Funding problems resurfaced again after 2002, halting work on the


                                                     - 12 -

wastewater treatment plan in Qujing, and delaying progress on the Kunming sewer component.

Project progress during the first few years bogged down to a large degree by institutional weaknesses until
the Provincial Government strengthened the project management framework around the time of the
mid-term review in October 1999.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project's restructuring in December 2002, initially proposed during the mid-term review, became
necessary as a consequence of the slow project start-up which led to several components (e.g., the raw
water pipeline within the Kunming water supply component and the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Plant)
seeking other than Bank financing.

The first Loan/Credit extension was needed for the most part because the urban and suburban sewerage
systems in Kunming could not be completed within the original implementation period which ended
December 31, 2002. The main causes for the delays were concerns about sewer alignments; major design
revisions of the Kunming urban sewer component; the combined system for sewage and for storm water
proposed under the new Master Plan; and inadequate site surveys. The later added sewerage
subcomponents for Mengzi and Xuanwei could also not be completed before the end of 2002.

The second Loan/Credit extension from December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004 was required on
account of continued difficulties in the Kunming urban sewer component, where the laying of sewer pipes
(using novel pipe-jacking technology in highly congested and trafficked areas) exceeded expected time
lines. Unexpected ground conditions and some contractor problems, which eventually were resolved
satisfactorily, exacerbated the problem. Better site surveys and planning, and improved coordination and
management could have lessened these problems. Given the lack of any experience with pipe-jacking in
Kunming, the final result was highly satisfactory and a credit to the client who decided to professionalize
the bidding process by including institutes from other provinces with relevant pipe-jacking experience.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual project costs totaled $234 million, representing savings of about 27% over the SAR estimate of
$320 million. The Government provided 55% of the total project costs, and the Bank Group financed 45%.
Originally, the Bank was expected to finance about 47% share of the project costs. After the restructuring
about $19 million of the Loan was cancelled and, since after Loan closing about $25 million remained
undisbursed, this amount was cancelled as well. The IDA Credit was fully disbursed. As a result, of the
$150 million Bank funding, only about $106 million were utilized. The main reason for the loan savings
were overestimation on the costs of most procurement contracts and elimination of several components
from the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely with some reservations.

Based on eight years of dialogue with the authorities on the sustainability for the provision of urban
services, the results are mixed: tariff adjustments have not been fully adequate, but government willingness
and support towards successful provision of urban services were strengthened. Concerning tariff
adjustments, most utility companies do not generate sufficient funds to fully meet their operating costs, debt
service and depreciation reserves. The lack of sustained financial viability of these companies remains a
matter of concern. The utilities are well aware that cost recovery is important, but the periodic tariff
revisions sought continue to be subject to approval by government authorities at a higher level as water and


                                                    - 13 -

wastewater utilities are still not independently run entities. The authorities, especially at the planning and
finance bureau level, repeatedly expressed their commitment to the principles of full cost recovery through
adequate tariff adjustments, but also asked for patience as rate increases can only be achieved gradually.
In particular, they point out that such increases are especially difficult to achieve when the facilities, such
as wastewater plants and solid waste landfills, are still under construction and have not commenced
operation. At the same time, the municipal governments fully understand the importance of the provision
of urban services and environmental protection. For all the urban services subprojects, governmental
authorities hold strong commitments, and have given policy and financial support. The governments'
short-term subsidies will meet the subprojects' operations and debt service obligations and mitigate social
constraints in several cities/counties resulting from very rapid increase of price indices in a short period.
The governments' actions also take into account opinions expressed in public hearings.

In the past, solid waste and wastewater treatment services, where available, were provided at no cost by the
municipal authorities. Kunming introduced a solid waste charge in 1995, Shilin in 2002, and Qujing in
2003. These charges are still insufficient to cover operating costs, but should be interpreted as a good start
towards achieving financial viability over time. In order to have a solid basis for future deliberations and
decisions, a Cost Analysis and Action Plan for solid waste disposal services was prepared for Kunming,
Shilin and Qujing. As the State and Provincial Governments pursue their efforts to convert municipal
utilities to full-fledged autonomous enterprises, they will gradually cede the responsibility for tariff
adjustments to the utilities.

The extensive attention given to construction and equipment quality during construction, as well as to the
careful planning for the transition from construction to operation (see section 6.2 below) should keep
operational costs and maintenance/replacement of the assets within reasonable limits.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In 2004, YEPO conducted a workshop on operational and management requirements and provided briefing
and sample materials to the companies. The plans prepared by the utilities represent a solid base for the
long-term operation and management of the entities. Several of the project utilities have recently
contemplated private sector participation and external management contractors.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the lending phase, encompassing project identification, preparation and
appraisal, is rated satisfactory. It took exactly two years from the first identification mission (July 1994)
to Board approval (in June 1996), a very short time compared to most other lending operations in China at
that time. The skill mix and resources used for the preparation and supervision of the project are given in
Annex 4.

As set out in Section 3.1 aboe, project identification and preparation built on the findings and
recommendations of the Dianchi Environmental Action Plan, and similar plans developed for Gejiu and
Qujing. The first identification mission selected most of the components included in the final project, with
the exception of a cultural heritage improvement component and a number of additional project cities which
were later dropped. Likewise, the principal policy initiatives to be covered under the project were identified
at that point and refined thereafter. One could, however, argue that the project objectives were too broadly
defined, when the core project goal was the clean up of Lake Dianchi and the related water bodies.
However, the proposed processing schedule, the overall project cost, and the Bank share thereof was
precisely adhered to.


                                                      - 14 -

As the project was, for the most part, prepared by outside consultants with the assistance of Yunnan
officials, the Borrower's role was probably more passive than it should have been. The outcome of the
project unmistakably proved that Yunnan and the project cities did not have sufficient time internally to
adequately prepare for project implementation.

The appraisal mission produced a comprehensive, high quality SAR. Nevertheless, the economic analysis
received some criticism from within the Bank. This ICR evaluation, however, finds the analysis thoughtful
and honest, attempted to provide quantification for the economic justification of the various components
only where meaningful data was available.

The legal covenants were considered as overly harsh by the Borrower, particularly those stipulating the
prompt creation of autonomous enterprises for wastewater and solid waste operations, and the introduction
of full cost recovery through utility services even before respective plants were commissioned. While these
conditions were normal Bank practice in infrastructure projects at that time, the Borrower felt that on the
basis of their firm commitment to full self-reliance by the enterprises, a more gradual and thus more
politically palatable approach would have avoided the project to be rated unsatisfactory in terms of
financial performance.

The appraisal team overestimated the initial capacity of the provincial and three main city coordinating
offices, as well as the implementing agencies, to implement the project efficiently and in a timely manner.
The significant start-up problems are evidence of the Bank's optimistic valuation. The technical assistance
packages, especially those including international experts, were essential as the coordinating offices and the
implementation agencies were ill-equipped to handle procurement management without such expert advice.
Procurement training was included in the packages, but was not utilized from the outset as expected.

As stated earlier, the appraisal estimates substantially overestimated contract prices, even though unit
prices were derived from quotations from suppliers and manufacturers as well as from published
construction costs obtained from government sources. Virtually all bid prices came in substantially lower
due to competitive pressures and the expectation by some bidders to get adjustments through variation
orders and price adjustments.

At negotiations, the Bank imposed stringent and probably unrealistic conditions on the Borrower, in
particular with regard to conversion of the wastewater sections within the municipal departments to
autonomous agencies as Loan/Credit effectiveness conditions. In reality, the stipulated actions could not
have been accomplished within the given time and therefore were done only on paper. Nevertheless, the
wastewater companies gained considerable operational experience as the project progressed.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory, despite resource constraints to carry out
missions with the needed frequency, intensity and capacity complement. Considering unsatisfactory ratings
for procurement, financial compliance and institutional development, missions were often too short and
understaffed, often with only one or two staff. Supervision missions could have been more frequent and
intensified, particularly during the first couple of years when it became evident that project schedules were
slipping and the institutional capacity of the agencies was not commensurate with project demands.
The Borrower complained about having to deal with four task managers (TMs) with different approaches;
however, for the bulk of the time only two Bank staff managed the project. Assistance, advice and
compliance monitoring by the two principal TMs was exemplary as they highlighted issues honestly,
consistently and vigilantly. Their reviews of compliance with safeguard policies and their project ratings



                                                      - 15 -

were consistent and realistic. The project benefitted greatly from moving the procurement review function
for this project from Washington to the Bank's Beijing Office.

Task team produced detailed and informative BTO-reports, highlighting problems and proposing
recommended actions. Safeguards, including EAs and RAPs, were monitored and followed up by all
supervision teams. Ratings were realistc.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory, as both the lending and supervision phases benefitted
from skilled, experienced and highly motivated task teams comprising, inter alia, engineers, environmental
and resettlement experts, financial analysts, and economists working over a period of ten years from project
identification to Loan/Credit closure. The Borrower also rated the Bank's performance as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory, although it could have been more actively
involved. The Borrower asserts in its own evaluation of the project that staff in the project coordination
offices, as well as in the implementation units, were insufficiently trained to actively assist in project
preparation and implementation and thus had to fight an uphill battle from project start-up to cope with
project procedures, management, bid document preparation, construction supervision, cost control and
institutional development. They further felt that in the appraisal exercise and the preparation of the SAR
they were only able to play a passive role, especially in the development of the procurement programs.
Once they fully understood the documents and procedures, they were compelled to seek revisions, resulting
in delays in bid documentation, and the project overall.

These are indeed good observations; however, project agencies, many of whom had been recently
established, did an admirable job of providing an enormous amount of technical, organizational, financial,
environmental data and analysis during project preparation. Considering that they had neither prior
experience with international organizations nor with highly complex environmental projects, all involved
project agencies need to be commended for their efforts under very difficult circumstances.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. All provincial and municipal authorities
remained firmly committed to the project throughout the project period, both in terms of leadership and
financial support. In the early stages of project implementation, they focused to a large extent on
construction activities. Their dedication to ensure that the project would have no unreasonably adverse
impact on the environment, minority groups and persons who needed to be resettled, is commendable.

Provision of Provincial counterpart funding was initially delayed by one year because of an overly lengthy
approval process and less than expected revenues. Because the Government failed to establish a strong
project management team at the beginning of the project, institutional weaknesses plagued the project for
an extended period of time, especially in procurement management and financial performance of project
entities.

Implementation was also less successful concerning Government compliance with financial Loan/Credit
covenants. The Borrower was to convert the three major implementation agencies in Kunming, Gejiu and
Qujing from entities within municipal government departments to autonomous enterprises. However, the
start of this conversion process, including valuation and transfer of assets, was delayed by more than one
year and took several years to complete. Tariff adjustments for utility services as described earlier, were



                                                     - 16 -

also delayed. Despite these difficulties, the overall achievement of institution building under the project has
been impressive.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the coordinating offices and the implementing agencies was overall satisfactory.

Institutional weaknesses hampered the project throughout the implementation period, mainly because: (a)
neither the provincial and the municipal project coordination offices, nor the implementing agencies had
prior experience with international organizations and their particular project monitoring and procurement
rules; (b) 16 implementation agencies had to be coordinated; and (c) the roles of the Yunnan Environment
Project Office (YEPO), the other municipal project offices (Kunming Environment Project Office, Gejiu
Environment Project Office and Qujing Environment Project Office), and the implementing agencies was
not clearly defined from the outset and never fully understood by the parties. Responsibilities vis--vis
other government authorities, such as Finance and Construction, also needed clarification.

Nevertheless, the coordinating offices and the 16 implementation offices completed this very complex
project superbly insofar as the original specifications were concerned. In fact, not a single component
failed to achieve the production and quality output originally envisaged under the project; several exceeded
them. The Kunming Drainage Company needs to be mentioned here as it organized the Kunming sewers
implementation extremely well. Their efforts, directed towards by far the largest component of the project,
were quite successful in achieving a critical reduction of pollution loads to Lake Dianchi. It further is
commendable that the Borrower sought to use Loan savings to add three new subcomponents furthering the
initial project objectives to enhance the environment in Yunnan.

The project offices produced good-quality progress reports regularly and also ensured the preparation of
covenanted audit reports. Several consultant firms provided effective and constructive assistance to the
project agencies, particularly in engineering design review, construction oversight, progress reporting,
procurement management, and training.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Provincial as well as the municipal
governments maintained a strong commitment to the project objectives and provided management for and
oversight over a large and complex project. All coordinating project offices and the implementing agencies
performed well in the preparation and implementation phases of the project. The Borrower would have
earned an even higher rating if the institutional and sustainability aspects of the project could have been
achieved on a more consistent basis.

8. Lessons Learned

A number of valuable lessons were learned from the implementation of this project. They should be
carefully considered during the preparation of any second Yunnan environment project. The
recommendations also may be applicable to a wide range of projects in China and elsewhere.

(a)      Institutional development always is a prime focus of Bank support. Throughout almost the entire
period of this project, institution building and procurement management remained poor. The lesson here is
that the Borrower's capacity to implement a project must be carefully assessed and if deficiencies are
detected, sufficient training, technical assistance and, most importantly, the necessary time must be allotted
before project commencement to strengthen the project agencies. This is indispensable when the project
agencies have no or little prior Bank experience.



                                                      - 17 -

(b)      Procurement problems stemmed from the overwhelming volume of contracts (originally 113).
The lesson here is, when the confidence level concerning the project agencies' competence and experience
is low, project needs to be simplified by reducing components, number of participating cities, variety of
activities, and project cost. Since environmental projects are customarily multifaceted, dividing a project in
tranches may be advisable. A first urban lending operation in a new area may thus be better done by
starting with a relatively small project followed in quick succession by one or more larger, more complex
operations.

(c)      Procurement processing in the field may be another helpful lesson. Procurement processing
improved markedly, when the Bank's ICB and NCB processing was switched from Washington, D.C. to
the Bank's Beijing Office, owing to prompt reviews and improved communication with and follow-up
support to the project agencies in Yunnan.

(d)      Utility service tariff adjustments were a bone of contention between the Bank and the Borrower.
While the Borrower supported the basic premise for full cost recovery, substantial rate increases have to
overcome political and bureaucratic hurdles. The lesson here calls for gradual adjustments over a
reasonable period of time, taking into consideration whether, for example, a wastewater treatment plant in
still under construction or has been commissioned.

(e)      During project implementation wastewater treatment standards were raised by the Government.
This resulted in the inability of one of the wastewater treatment plants, namely the one in Qujing, to meet
legal effluent standards without major process modifications. While Bank-supported projects cannot
always predict government actions, the lesson here is that all environmental activities should be required to
conform to the highest domestic and/or international standards. Governments rarely make quick decisions
about regulatory changes. Appraisal missions should therefore investigate whether any changes affecting
the project are in the offing, and if in the affirmative, plant and process design should be flexible enough to
make quick and economic modifications in the future.

(f)      China still possesses relatively little experience in modern sanitary landfill design and operation.
Consequently, the lesson should be for the Bank to strengthen its project preparation support in this area,
including the need to provide specific training to the design institutes responsible for project design.
Adequate funds for technical assistance also need to be set aside for the construction and operation of solid
waste landfills.

(g)      The work of some design institutes was flawed by inadequate attention to detail and design
requirements. Such weaknesses may cause undue delays and variation orders, once construction
commences. The lesson here is to make design institutes and reviewing consultants, if applicable, more
accountable for their work. This can be accomplished by (i) assigning sufficient time, adequate resources,
and full responsibility to these firms on the basis of clearly set out TORs for detailed design preparation,
including topographic and geotechnical investigations; and (ii) requiring them to accept professional
liability through insurance or other form of security at their own expense. The roles and accountability of
design institutes and reviewing consultants should be explored by a Bank-sponsored study.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower through its Yunnan Environment Project Office has submitted its own excellent and
comprehensive report which served as an important input to this ICR. It is summarized in Annex 9.



                                                       - 18 -

After review of the Bank's final draft ICR, the Borrower provided an overall assessment of the report and
submitted a number of suggestions for revising the report. They have been taken into account in the final
report version. In its overall comments the Yunnan Environment Project Office stated:

"YEPO is very pleased to see that the Bank has drafted a detailed ICR which correctly evaluated the
project and honestly revealed the problems faced, experience gained, and valuable lessons learned. It is an
asset to improve the future international project.

We appreciate the Bank support to the project, the capacity built during the project, and the ICR to
stimulate us to further improve the capabilities of Yunnan Government."

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable


10. Additional Information

Not applicable




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Quality & quantity of water supply and
wastewater management;
Water Supply: Quantity and Quality                           100 %                                  100%
Wastewater Management:
   Interception Ratio                                          95%                                   95%
   Connection Ratio                                            95%                                   95%
2. Quality of lake water - Lake Dianchi
improvement and aquatic life quality;
   Lake Dianchi                                           Class > V                             Class   V
   Lake Gejiu                                             Class   IV                            Class IV
   Eutophication Index
       Inner Lake                                              79.9                                 79.9
       Outer Lake                                              63.6                                 63.6
3. Achievement of complementary                    Under Implemenation                 Virtually Completed
investments (DEAP);
4. Operational performance - financial
indicators and operational efficiency
   Financial Indicators                          Awaiting Government Approval        Government Approval Expected
   Operational Efficiency                                 Achieved                             Achieved
5. Phosphorus removal at all STW;                            95%                                  95%
6. Institutional development -
   Achievement of Action Plans                            In Progress           Achievement Expected over Long-Term


Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Water Supply Capacity Improvements
  Kunming                                  170,000 m3/day                       170,000 m3/day
  Qujing                                   60,000 m3/d                          60,000 m3/dm
Wastewater Treatment Improvements
   Kunming                                 190,000 m3/d                         190,000 m3/d
   Gejiu                                   25,000 m3/d                          25,0000 m3/d
   Qujing                                  80,000 m3/d                          80,000 m3/d
   Xuanwei                                 30,000 m3/d                          30,000 m3/d
   Mengzi                                  20,000 m3/d                          20,000 m3/d
   Chenggong                               15,000 m3/d                          15,000 m3/d
   Jinning                                 15,000 m3/d                          15,000 m3/d
Expanded Solid Waste Disposal Capacity
   Kunming                                 2 Landfills; 1,500 tons/d            2 Landfills; 3,000 tons/d
   Qujing                                  250 tons/d                           250 tons/d
   Shilin                                  80 tons/d                            80 tons/d


Rural Sanitation for 10 Villages           Completed                            Completed
Enhanced Pollution Monitoring              Completed                            Completed
Industrial Pollution Control
   Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory     Completed with Own Financing         Completed with Own Financing
   Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory    First Phase Completed                First Phase Completed
   Env. Pollution Control Subloans         Fully Disbursed; Not Revolving       Not Revolving


Institutional Achievements
   Conversion of Utilities to Enterprises  Not Fully Achieved                   Eventually Fully Achieved
   Tariff Adjustments                      Adjustments Still Pending            Full Compliance Possible over Long-Term
   Training                                Completed                            Completed

1End of project




                                                              - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery                    167.01          157.21           94.1
Industrial Pollution Control                                  30.08             8.19          27.2
Provincial Urban Environmental Services                       39.43           55.30          140.3
Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring                     5.06             6.15         121.5
Institutional Development, Training, Construction             15.66             7.00          44.7
          Supervision

Total Baseline Cost                                          257.24          233.85
 Physical Contingencies                                       30.79
 Price Contingencies                                          19.55
                          Total Project Costs                307.58          233.85
                            Interest during construction      12.30
                   Total Financing Required                  319.88          233.85




Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
 (US$ million equivalent)



Category                  ICB               NCB         Other        NBF      Total Cost
Works                    73.8               79.6        0.0          1.1      154.5
                         (32.2)             (35.8)      (0.0)        (0.0)    (69.0)
Goods                    74.4               1.5         11.6         4.0      91.5
                         (54.6)             (1.2)       (6.2)        (0.0)    (62.0)
Services                 0.0                0.0         19.0         0.0      19.0
                         (0.0)              (0.0)       (19.0)       (0.0)    (19.0)
Misc.                    0.0                0.0         0.0          42.6     42.6
                         (0.0)              (0.0)       (0.0)        (0.0)    (0.0)
Total                    148.2              81.1        30.6         47.7     307.6
                         (87.8)             (37.0)      (25.2)       (0.0)    (150)




                                                  - 21 -

  Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (Latest Estimate)
  (US$ million equivalent)


   Category                 ICB            NCB          Other        NBF           Total Cost
   Works                   54.48           25.79        0.00         0.00          78.27
                           (27.75)         (7.70)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (35.46)
   Goods                   31.94           0.56         3.06         0.00          35.55
                           (24.33)         (0.00)       (1.49)       (0.00)        (25.82)
   Services                0.00            0.00         9.85         0.00          9.85
                           (0.00)          (0.00)       (5.82)       (0.00)        (5.82)
   Miscellaneous           0.00            0.00         82.40        27.80         110.20
                           (0.00)          (0.00)       (38.90)      (0.00)        (38.90)
   Total                   84.41          26.36        95.31        27.80         233.88
                           (52.09)        (7.70)       (46.21)      (0.00)        (106.00)




Project Financing by Financier (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Financier            Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank      Govt.      CoF.       Bank      Govt.       CoF.     Bank  Govt.   CoF.
Yunnan Government                   165.60                          125.60                      75.8
Industrial enterprises               4.30                            2.30                       53.5
IBRD/IDA                 150.00                          106.00                          70.7




                                                 - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Lake Dianchi was declared one of the three most important lakes in China in 1996. The lake
serves many purposes, including domestic, industrial and agricultural water supply, water storage,
flood control, fishing, aquaculture, tourism and recreation. From the 1960s and 1970s onward,
the lake began to degrade rapidly with organic matter, suspended solids, heavy metals and organic
chemicals the main lake pollutants. Both parts of the lake (the so-called Inner Lake and the Outer
Lake) became eutrophic on account of high total phosphorus pollution. The water quality of
Lake Dianchi is below Class V. The main causes for its pollution are domestic and industrial
sewage inflow, farm drainage, erosion products, mining wastes, solid waste dumping and
atmospheric pollutants.

The principal goal of the Yunnan Environment Project was to assist in the reversal of the
degradation of Lake Dianchi and the Dianchi Catchment area and was consistent with the highest
government priority of Yunnan Province. The improvement of the lake was also declared a key
national objective. The preparation of the Yunnan Environment Project relied heavily on the
Dianchi Environmental Action Plan (DEAP) which was developed beginning in July 1995. DEAP
identified programs and projects for an 18-year period focusing on water resources, municipal
infrastructure, industrial pollution control, and rural environment. The necessary `hardware' was
selected on the basis of whether they would meet the strategic objectives of DEAP and alleviate
the major causes of lake deterioration. In addition, those investments were chosen which had the
highest rates of return taking into account their benefits on the environment and on human
well-being.

After reviewing the Government's analysis and visits to the proposed project cities, the
identification mission concurred with the Government's selection of project cities. Within each
municipality, those investments among viable alternatives were selected which would derive the
largest net benefits in economic terms. However, it became quickly clear that some of the benefits
sought under the project, such as improvements in health and human well-being, and increases
from tourism and recreation could not be easily quantified. Therefore, an overall economic
internal rate of return for the project was not calculated at the time of project appraisal.

For the proposed investments in Gejiu and Qujing alternative design options were evaluated on
the basis of the least-cost analysis method. The three additional subcomponents in Shilin, Mengzi
and Xuanwei, proposed during the mid-term review, were also examined using least-cost analysis.

For investments impacting upon the water quality of Lake Dianchi, the appraisal exercise
compared the proposed investments with the "do nothing" scenario which in the long-run would
require increased treatment of the water or increasingly foregoing the use of lake water and
replacing it with water from sources at greater distances. As Lake Dianchi supplied, at the time
of appraisal about 50 percent of Kunming's water, the damage of the "do nothing" option would
become increasingly more expensive. Such a damage analysis makes sense when all options are
still available, but does not make sense after an investment option has been implemented.
Alternatively, the prevention of pollution damage to Lake Dianchi could be assessed through the
assessment of such benefits as increased health conditions, higher fishing yields, and augmented
touristic activities. However, quantifications of such benefits would require time-consuming and


                                                 - 23 -

expensive studies by a team of engineers and epidemiologists. As such studies were not available
to the appraisal or the ICR team, no attempt was made to perform such a calculation using
unsubstantiated guesses.

For the water supply investments in Kunming, the appraisal compared the average economic
incremental of the new supply with the willingness by consumers to pay for this supply. As both
resultant values came to approximately the same result, it was presumed that the net present value
of the investments would most likely be positive. For a more precise quantification the staff
appraisal report would have needed more evidence on the shape of the demand curve which at the
time did not exist. With no "lack-of-willingness-to-pay" survey data to develop such a demand
curve, the ICR is also unable to reconstruct the appraisal analysis.

Solid waste landfill options were compared at appraisal with incineration alternatives, the latter of
which all proved to be much less attractive economically. At the time of the ICR, this conclusion
has clearly not changed for the four solid waste management projects under the project. The
appraisal selected the individual design options again on the basis of the least-cost analysis.

For the two chemical fertilizer plants under the industrial pollution control component, the
appraisal team estimated an economic rate of return of 24 percent based of the fact that the annual
loss of phosphorus would decline from 93 tons to 2 tons per year, thus proportionally improving
the quantity of fertilizer production. As stated, one of the plants dropped out of the project, but
implemented the work on its own, and for the other only the wastewater treatment was
completed. The overall reduction of phosphorus discharge into Lake Dianchi was achieved
nonetheless and it can be presumed that their investments turned out to be quite attractive.

No economic analysis was presented in the SAR for the relatively small environmental subloan
facility (EPCSL).




                                               - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/01/1994                6    TTL & SANITARY ENG. (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             WATER QUALITY SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              01/23/1995                7    TTL & SANITARY ENG. (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL ENG. (2);
                                             SOCIAL DEV. SPEC. (1);
                                             WATER QUALITY SPEC. (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              11/20/1995                4    TTL & SANITARY ENG. (1);
                                             ENV. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             MUNIPAL SPEC. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/15/1996                7    TTL/MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             COST ENGINEER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL ENG.
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Supervision

              07/25/1997                3    TTL/MUNICPAL ENG. (1);           S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENATL ENG. (1);
                                             FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              03/01/1998                5    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT CONS.
                                             (1); INTERPRETER (1)
              01/28/1999                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               U
                                             FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                             (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT




                                              - 25 -

                                                    SPECIALIST (1)
               03/18/2000                      3    TTL & FIN. ANALYST (1);             S    S
                                                    PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                    SOLID WASTE MGMT SPEC.
                                                    (1)
               09/08/2000                      5    TTL/FINANC. ANALYST (1);            S    S
                                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                                    RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                                                    PROCUREMENT SPEC. (2)
               01/19/2001                      1    TTL & FIN ANALYST (1)               S    S
               08/12/2001                      2    TTL & FIN ANALYST (1);              S    S
                                                    ENGINEER (1)
               10/27/2001                      3    FIN ANALYST & TTL (1);              S    S
                                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                                    PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                    (1)
               04/13/2002                      3    TTL, URBAN FINANCE SPT              S    S
                                                    (1); SANITARY ENGINEER
                                                    (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                    SPECIALIST (1)
               11/23/2002                      2    FIN ANALYST & TTL (1);              S    S
                                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)
               03/21/2003                      2    TTL & FIN ANALYST (1);              S    S
                                                    ENGINEER (1)
               11/13/2003                      2    ENGINEER (1);                       S    S
                                                    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               06/19/2004                      2    TTL/FINANC. ANALYST (1);            S    S
                                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)
               11/27/2004                      4    URBAN FINANCE SPEC. (1);            S    S
                                                    URBAN ENVMT. SPEC. (1);
                                                    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                                    PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)

 ICR
                                                    No formal ICR mission was           S    S
                                                    conducted



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    94.6                           450.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         17.8                            90.6
  Supervision                                  146.2                           570.0
  ICR                                             7.0                           25.0
  Total                                        265.6                         1,135.6
Regional direct to full costs mark-up is 25% for fiscal years up to and including FY99.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA
Other: Pilot rural sanitation
subproject had positive
demonstration effect; plus public
awareness was raised for prevention
of industrial and non-source
pollution.




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report: Yunnan Environment Project, dated May 28, 1996, Report No.: 15361-CHA.

2. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report, dated March, 2005.

3. Quarterly Progress Reports by Yunnan Environment Office (about 30 in total).

4. Executive Summary by Project Related Land Acquisition and Resettlement, dated March 2005.

5. Document on major milestones of Yunnan Environment Project prepared by Borrower, dated March
2005.

6. Detailed financial projections for all service utilities, prepared by each enterprise for a period of about
10 years, 2000-2007/9, dated April 2005.

7. Project proposal for the comprehensive treatment of the pollution of Lake Dianchi, prepared by
Borrower, dated May 1993.

8. Yunnan Environmental Assessment Report, prepared by Borrower & Consultants, dated February
1996.

9. Yunnan Environment Project, public summary report, prepared by consultants for Government of
Yunnan Province, dated January 1998.

10. Extending the Closing Date of Yunnan Environment Project up to December 31, 2004, Action Plan.




                                                      - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Experiences in Land Acquisition and Resettlement

At project commencement, senior officials from the relevant provincial and municipal departments formed
a committee to oversee land acquisition and resettlement throughout the project implementation period.

All PAPs were treated and compensated according to the RAPs which fully adhered to national, provincial
and municipal laws as well as to Bank requirements.

For the preparation of the initial RAPs, the Yunnan Finance and Trade College made field visits, gathered
information and conducted surveys on the social and economic conditions of PAPs and areas affected by
the project. YEPO oversaw and recorded the findings obtained by this group.

During implementation, the Foreign Capital Introduction and Utilization Institute of Southwest Jiatong
University monitored and evaluated the activities under the RAPs. About five missions were sent to active
project sites. According to the Institute's findings, the standard of living of all PAPs was improved or at
least maintained.

Considering the size of the project, a relatively small number of persons, totaling 2,779, had to be resettled,
and some 206 ha of land was acquired. Authorities temporarily leased 99 ha of land for the duration of
construction. The area of affected enterprises, exclusively in Kunming, amounted to about 19,800 m2.
The overall cost for land acquisition and resettlement totaled $19 million.

The Quarterly Reports on project progress routinely provided details and highlighted issues, if any had
come to the fore, during the previous three months. Bank supervision missions regularly discussed issues,
if any, with the Borrower and monitored compliance during their field visits

Precise details about resettlement information by project site are included in the Borrower's submission for
the ICR and are available in the project file.




                                                      - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's Project Evaluation

 The project is part of a phased development program of Yunnan Province (YP) to improve environmental
 conditions and sustain urban services management. The principal objective of the project is to provide a
 sustainable environmental framework for the long term economic and social development of the Province,
 while providing a conductive foundation for industrial growth. Full details of objectives have been
 provided in the Staff Appraisal Report Number 15361-CHA of May 28, 1996  Section 3A, Project
 Objectives, and Annex 2: Detailed Project Description. The same objectives are cited in the Loan
 Agreement Number 4055 CHA and the Development Credit Agreement Credit Number 2892 CHA, both
 of them were signed on September 13, 1996.

 1.0   Revised Components

 There were several changes in the design of some of the project components in order to optimize the
 project outputs without the change in Project Objectives.

 1.1   Changes in Sub-Components Design
 The changes in sub-component design are summarized below.

 Deleted sub-component:
 1.    Under Component B, the investment for Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory was eliminated from
 the WB Loan due to the urgency the investment (urgency in the treatment of water pollution from the
 factory discharge) to allow the Factory to be in compliance with discharging standard before May 1,
 1999 (a deadline set forth by Government for industrial enterprises in Dianchi Basin.) However, the
 project component was completed as originally designed using local fund.
 2.    Under Component B, the second phase investment in Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory was
 deleted from the original design. The component was designed in two phases. The first phase focused on
 wastewater treatment and clean production. The second phase was to introduce advanced technology and
 increase production capacity in order to enhance its economics.

 Changes in Project Design Scope:
 Water Supply in Qujing: The original design of extension of existing No. 2 WTP with increased capacity
 of 30,000 m3/d was changed to the construction of a new WTP with capacity of 60,000 m3/d. The
 change was due to the restructuring of Qujing from prefecture into municipality and the change in the
 Government policy to encourage the rapid urbanization of Qujing as a Class II city. Such changes
 resulted in the change in the subproject scope. The change was approved by the Bank and the
 Government .

 Added sub-components:
 1.    Under Component A, Shilin Solid Waste Management was added to the original project design. It
 was added to the Project at the mid-term review. The scope included a solid waste collection system for
 Shilin and a sanitary landfill for Stone Forest Park.
 2.    Under Component C, Mengzi Wastewater treatment was added to the original design. It was added
 to the Project at the mid-term review. Works included a 20,000 m3 per day wastewater treatment plant
 and a sewer system of about 5.4 km in length within the county.
 3.    Under Component C, Xuanwei Wastewater treatment was added to the original design. Works
 included a wastewater treatment plant of 30,000 m3 per day and a sewer system of about 29 km in length
 for the new area in the City.



                                                   - 31 -

All the changes were discussed with the World Bank (WB) during the mid-term review and supervision
missions. The agreed revisions were recorded in the Mid-Term Review Report and relevant mission Aide
Memoires. In addition, with an agreement with a WB supervision mission, the TA Contract has been
extended to cover consultancy services of the three new project components.

1.2   Changes in the Method of Implementation
In addition to the changes in sub-components design, there were changes in the engineering method of
implementation for some project components. These changes are summarized below.

Part A: Lake Dianchi Basin Water Quality Recovery
1.    Kunming Municipal Solid Waste Management
To enhance the long term safety of the landfill, during the implementation stage KSWTDC changed the
grade of the material for the leakage protection lining. A higher quality (and more expensive) HDPE
material was selected for landfill lining, and it was procured for the entire area of the landfill. This
change significantly increased the cost of the lining, and thus the cost of the project component. In
addition, due to the poor geologic conditions in the locations of several transfer stations, the quantity of
the civil work was substantially increased. The number of transfer stations was reduced from 18 to 7
stations due to the optimization of designs for transportation vehicles.
2.    Kunming Water Supply
The Xiaotunshan service reservoir was dropped from the Project due to land acquisition problems,
leading to a revise of the overall system design. The Songhuaba Reservoir Augmentation work
(DBM/3.3) was eliminated. A new bulk water meter was installed but not under the Project. Provision
of equipment for metering and utility system management was cut from the Project. Laboratory
equipment for water quality testing (at the Kunming Water Supply Company) was added following the
mid-term review. Leakage detection equipment was considered by the KWSC to be so expensive as to be
not cost-effective. It was therefore cut from the scope of work.
3.    Kunming Wastewater
The work on the Kunming Wastewater System was completed as planned with all the sub-components
implemented. However, sewer alignments and quantities were redesigned to abide by the Kunming
Master Plan for Sewerage, and it is different from those in the Project preparation documents.
4.    Small Towns Wastewater
The Small Towns Wastewater Component includes the wastewater treatment and associated sewer
systems in the counties of Chenggong and Jinning. All the work was completed as planned. There were
only small changes in pipeline alignments without change in system capacities and functions.
5.    Rural Sanitation
The engineering design was changed in Dounan Water Supply. The branch pipelines and fire protection
equipment were added to the design for better system functions. In Wulong and Dounan wastewater
treatment plants, the treatment methods were re-designed for cost effectiveness and for better water
quality of the effluent.
For solid waste treatment composting facilities in all locations, composting methods were re-designed to
achieve the commercial standard for the composting product.

Part B: Industrial Pollution Control
1.    Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory
The first phase of the subproject has been implemented as originally designed. The second phase was
deleted from the loan due to the lack of counterpart funding.
2.    Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory
It withdrew from the Project due to the urgent need in investment to treat wastewater from the factory.
Counterpart funding was used to complete the subproject.


                                                   - 32 -

3.     Environmental Pollution Control Sub-Loans
It was executed as originally designed. Seven pollution control projects have used the Sub-Loans. The
current problem is the difficulty in revolving the fund.

Part C: Provincial Urban Environmental Services
1.     Municipal Solid Waste Management in Qujing
There was no change in the scope for Qujing Municipal Solid Waste Management. However, due to the
lower quality of the engineering design, there were a number of engineering design modifications during
construction. The transfer stations were cancelled due to the changes in zoning and administration in
Qujing city, and the optimization of design for transportation vehicles. For overall solid waste
management, Qujing has taken action to close the old dumpsite. The closure of the old dumpsite will
eliminate the illegal dumping in the old site and enhance the environmental management and protection in
the area.
2.     Wastewater Collection and Treatment in Gejiu
There was no change in capacity of the Gejiu wastewater treatment plant capacity. However, the design
of Gejiu sewer system was significantly changed. In 1996, a serious flood damage occurred in Gejiu
City. To prevent future flood damage, Gejiu Municipal Government initiated a comprehensive sewer
treatment and flood control plan, the sewer system was therefore redesigned. The new design reserved
full capacity of the sewer treatment and increased the flood control function and capacity. Due to this
major change in design, project schedule was significantly delayed.

Part D: Environmental and Water Quality Monitoring
1.     Kunming Environment Monitoring Center
There was no change in the scope of Kunming Environment Monitoring Center. However, the location of
the Center was changed during implementation and the geologic condition in the new location is quite
different. Therefore, the foundation design and the quantity of the civil work changed during the
implementation.
2.     Yunnan Environment Monitoring and Management System
There was no change during the implementation.

Part E: Institutional Development, Training and Construction Supervision
Implementation of the Construction Supervision Component was enhanced with deeper involvement of
the international consultants in engineering design review, bidding document preparation, construction
supervision, progress monitoring, quality control and progress reporting. Implementation of the training
was conducted as designed. Trainings in Kunming for all the PIAs were carefully designed and
presented. In addition, trainings for individual PIA and trainings for the key staff in add-on subprojects
were conducted at the subproject sites. Institutional Development was kept in pace with the Government
plan and the provincial/city economic reforming process. Concerning the lack of readiness of a number
of subproject entities to make the necessary changes during the project implementation, an agreement has
been reached between the PIAs and a WB supervision mission in 2000 to re-arrange the program for
institutional development strengthening: the international consultants' involvement of the development
process was simplified during the project implementation. Instead of using extensive effort from
international consultants, local consultants together with the PIAs were used to prepare "Institutional
Development Strategy and Action of Yunnan Environment Project", which was forwarded to WB for
review. The WB showed satisfaction with the document. The consultants' budget savings were shifted
to enhance the construction supervision.

2.0    QUALITY AT ENTRY




                                                   - 33 -

Project preparation at appraisal can be evaluated as satisfactory. The overall project design (as stated in
SAR) proved to be in line with the government and WB development strategy in China and it is in line
with the environmental protection plans for the province, cities and counties. The scope of the project
and the primary project design proved to be appropriate. The feasibility studies and engineering design
for each project component (as well as for the overall project) proved to be generally appropriate. Most
of the technical designs employed advanced yet commercially available technologies.
The major problems at project preparation stage were:
1.    Cost estimates for most of the project components were excessive.
2.    PIAs capacities in executing the project was overestimated in the areas of understanding the WB
procedures, preparing bid documents, and mitigating environmental/social impacts.
3.    Due to the overestimation of the PIAs capacity, WB did not timely initiate the necessary training
before project implementation.

3.0   ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS

3.1   Outcome / Achievement of Objective
Due to the rapid industrial and urban development in Kunming City as well as in other regions of the
province, air, water, and solid waste pollution became very serious since early 1990. In order to mitigate
the pollution, Yunnan Provincial Government formulated a comprehensive environmental protection plan
to curb the pollution. This project abides by the Provincial Environmental Protection Plan (up-dated
once in every five years) and the Dianchi Lake Water Pollution Mitigation Plan (1993) which calls for
RMB 3 billion investment to clean the Dianchi Lake Basin in 18 years. (With the continued
implementation of Dianchi Lake Water Pollution Mitigation Plan, it has been realized that it would be a
long-term, arduous and complex tasks for Yunnan to improve water quality of Dianchi Lake. It is
unlikely to improve water quality in Dianchi Lake in a short-term, to allow the water to be used for
potable supply. The determination and confidence of the Government of Yunnan Province to improve
water environment of Dianchi Lake keeps unchanged. However, the later version of the plan adjusted
the earlier versions to form a more workable action plan.) This project contribute significantly to the
mitigation of water pollution in the Dianchi Lake Basin and contribute significantly to the priority
subprojects in water supply, wastewater treatment, solid waste management in other regions of the
province. In turn, the project will positively impact the long term economic and social development of
Yunnan Province. The solid waste, water supply and wastewater components in Kunming, Qujing, Gejiu
Cities are being well utilized and their positive impacts on the local environment are already being felt.
Other water supply, wastewater and solid waste management facilities provided by the project in counties
and small towns in the province are also similarly well utilized. Three new subprojects were added
during project implementation to broaden the project area, and to achieve greater environmental benefits.
In summary, the project has achieved greater pollution load reduction objectives than originally
envisaged. The overall project can be evaluated as satisfactory. In addition, the industrial component,
environmental and water quality monitoring component, and institutional development component have
comprehensively enhanced the overall pollutant monitoring and mitigation, environmental management,
and capacity building in the project region.

3.2   Institutional Development Impact
There are 16 subproject entities within the overall project. Among the 16 entities, KEMS and YEMS are
environmental Monitoring Centers under KEPB and YEPB. KWSC had been a state-owned company,
and KPFF is an industrial company, their institutional improvement have been from the internal
improvements within their existing structure. EPCSL belongs to the Sub-Loans component and is not
directly applicable. Other 11 subproject entities were utility entities or departments under the municipal
governments. At the completion of the project implementation, seven of them have created or convert to


                                                   - 34 -

companies. The converting of the utility entities to company structures are expected to take place
gradually, and will serve as the foundation for the current government's market oriented reform agenda.
Plans and innovations towards the reform have been clearly noticed, which include the formation of joint
water supply and waster companies (in Qujing and Xuanwei), transfer of all wastewater assets and
budgets (as in Gejiu), entering into management contracts (as in Jinning), and formation of asset holding
companies (as in Kunming). Institutional arrangements in the solid waste sector are taking place at a fast
pace. Three solid waste management entities have completed their cost analyses and proposed plans for
full cost recovery. Municipal governments have given support to the policy installation and fee
adjustments.

3.3    Poverty Alleviation and Social Improvements
Whilst the objectives of the Project were essentially environmental in nature there have been important
social side benefits. In the project area, over 280 permanent jobs have been created in the public utility
companies. The construction added over 10,000 temporary jobs during project implementation. Over 6
million people are now benefiting from the environmental improvements resulting from the increased
water supply coverage and reliability, and from the establishment/improvement of sewerage system and
solid waste management. These improvements have been especially beneficial for the poorer people in
the local communities.
The mitigation of water pollution in lakes and rivers will also benefit residents in both cities and rural
area downstream the project area, in terms of their health, hygiene and agriculture production.
In addition, through the implementation of the project, the public attitudes towards environmental
awareness and participation, water quality, sanitation, and price hearings for utilities have been
significantly improved. On the other side, Government has gained useful inputs and comments from the
public, which are beneficial for the future planning and policy making.
Through the cost analyses for three solid waste management subprojects (required by the project) and for
all the water supply utilities (initiatives under government reform process), long-term sustainability of the
utility companies and the affordability of poor people have been identified and addressed. To respond to
the findings, most municipal governments in the project region have formed plans to assist the poor
people through carefully designed wavers and incremental tariff structure.

4.0     MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

4.1    Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
1.     Having long been familiar with the procedures and management in non-market-oriented project
investment for urban infrastructure, the YEPO, PMOs and PIAs, in the project preparation and appraisal
stages, have nearly no experiences in managing and implementing WB financed projects. YEPO, PMOs
and PIAs lacked of better understandings on WB procedure and competitive bidding process (China's
Law on Tendering and Bidding was not promulgated and not came into effect until 2000). This had
resulted in major changes in bid packages and delays in subproject executions at the beginning of the
project implementation.
2.     In 1997, China MOF and WB reached agreement to shift WB old Model Bid Document to the
current Model Bid Document. For YEP, that was at the beginning of the project implementation. The
project design institutes spent considerable time and effort to make the change.
3.     During the first two years of project implementation (1997-1998), the WB bid document review
and approval were through the WB Headquarters in Washington, D.C. Untimely review, comments,
revision and approval had occurred. The problem was solved in 1999 when WB Beijing Office took the
responsibility for bid document review and approval.
4.     During project implementation, WB has changed four project managers with different styles, and
all of them were also busy with other projects at the same time. Although the project managers made


                                                    - 35 -

special efforts, it had resulted in difficulties in terms of timely help YEP to solve implementation
problems. Delays in document review, approval, loan disbursement coordination have occurred.
5.     The design of Gejiu Municipal Sewerage subproject was affected significantly by the serious flood
damage occurred in 1996 in the city. To prevent future flood damage, Gejiu Municipal Government
formed new plan for sewer system operation and flood control. Within the comprehensive framework of
sewer and flood control, the new design reserved full capacity of the sewer treatment and increased the
flood control function in the system. This resulted in major changes from the original design, and the
subproject schedule was significantly delayed.

4.2    Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
1.     Before the project implementation, YEPO, PMOs and PIAs received insufficient trainings in
project implementation (including project procedure, management, bid document preparation,
construction supervision, cost control and institutional development, etc.). The effects of training were
weakened due to changes in project management staff of PIAs. As SAR was prepared by WB staff, the
borrower was passively involved in the formulation of the project procurement program. This had
resulted in significant changes in bid packages, and delays in bid document preparation and project
implementation.
2.     During project implementation, most PIAs have given priority to construction but put less effort in
institutional development and financial management improvement. Though the Government, through
YEPO, has put efforts to enhance the institutional and financial areas, at the completion of the project,
there is still small difference in WB anticipated institutional arrangement and the project real achievement
in this aspect.
3.     Government, in the Loan Agreement, has promised to timely adjust utility tariffs to recover the
costs of the subproject utility entities. During project implementation, the utility tariffs have been
initiated and adjusted step by step to the levels approaching to break-even point. Some of the utility
entities still need government financial support to maintain the operations. Currently, the Government is
making progress in this aspect, and at the same time, carefully evaluating the impact of the
full-cost-recovery tariffs towards the affordability of the residents and the development of the local
economy.
4.     The design of Kunming Municipal Sewerage subproject was affected significantly by the winning
of the 99 International Horticulture Exposition in Kunming City. After winning the right of hosting the
International Horticulture Exposition, Kunming Municipal Government implemented a number of large
scale projects ahead of planned schedule. The action changed the City Development Plan significantly.
It resulted in the original design of the KMSC subproject to undergo major change. In the old city
proper, full separation of the stormwater from municipal sewerage had become economically unviable.
The original design of the sewer system, pipeline alignment, and associated equipment had to be changed
accordingly. It also resulted in a significant delay in the subproject schedule.

4.3    Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
1.     It could have been more practical if the subproject entities had bid package experience and took
initiatives with the WB to formulate bid packages and project procurement program. The SAR bid
package, to some extent and for some subprojects, was unrealistic or difficult to execute. This had
resulted in lengthy discussions and re-package of the packages for most of the subprojects. During
implementation, the 72 SAR formulated packages were re-designed as 107 packages. And procurement
process was substantially delayed.
2.     In project preparation stage, the project cost estimation for most of subprojects was too high
compared to the real cost of the project. The higher cost estimation had caused difficulty in gathering
counterpart funding for some of the subproject entities. And it also resulted in inefficient use of both the
WB and counterpart funding. The SAR estimated total project cost was RMB 2,960 million. The real


                                                       - 36 -

project completion cost is RMB 1,941 million. The utilization is only 66% of the assigned WB loan.
3.     Low bid prices occurred in the procurements of some packages. Due to the lack of experience and
not-fully-regulated China construction market, the PIAs could not prevent the low capability contractors
to win some of the bid packages. This has caused delayed implementations in some engineering and civil
works. It also generated difficulties in strictly following FIDIC Contract Management practice.
4.     The capacity and efficiency of PIAs in managing the subprojects have been differentiated, which
had caused difficulties for YEPO and PMOs (who lacked of experience at the beginning of the project
implementation stage) to coordinate and communicate among the relevant agencies for such large-scale
and comprehensive project. In addition, due to the longer time period of implementation, project
management teams and key personnel have changed substantially. All these facts have increased the
difficulties in implementation.

5.0    SUSTAINABILITY

In overall terms the project can be considered sustainable although there are, and will continue to be,
some transitional issues and problems particularly in respect of local tariffs and in the collection of these
user fees. Sustainability needs to be viewed in terms of (i) the ability of staff to operate and maintain the
facilities, (ii) the institutional arrangements put in place, and (iii) adequate financing arrangements for
financial sustainability. Among the utility companies, solid waste management companies were the very
last to introduce fee to the public for their service. Consequently, more effort is required for their
financially sustained operation and for the public to accept the fee. To overcome the barriers, three solid
waste management subproject entities have accomplished Cost Analysis and Action Plan for Solid Waste
Disposal Service in their own service areas.

6.0    BANK PERFORMANCE

The WB's performance during the identification, preparation and appraisal phases of the project is
considered to be satisfactory. The change of WB project managers by the Bank was understood by the
Government. The diligence of WB managers and staff was appreciated by all the implementing agencies.
The work of the WB Beijing Office was highly appreciated in terms of timely instructions to YEP on WB
procedures; review, comment, and approval of bid documents; and instructions on institutional and social
dimensions.

7.0    BORROWER PERFORMANCE

The national and provincial government's commitment to the project remained strong and supportive
during all phases of the project. The YEPO and City/County PMOs resumed active management
functions throughout the project. Each subproject entity has designated necessary resources to execute
the subproject. Government has assisted all the subproject entities to gather sufficient counterpart
funding, except for the second phase of Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory, which is industrial
process modernization in nature. In addition, Government has given full support to the initiation and
management of the Environmental Pollution Control Sub-Loans. However, the disadvantage in the
interest rate of the sub-loans (comparing to the local short-term loans) prohibited it from actively
revolving. At the project completion stage, it only achieved partial success. Municipal governments in
the project region have given utmost support for the construction at all the subproject sites. Most of the
construction sites have required strong coordination for the layout of pipelines in busy city streets.
Government support is also related to the successful implementation of the project related land
acquisition and resettlement. Provincial and municipal governments have made great effort towards the
initiating and adjusting the utility tariffs. For those tariffs that may have notable impacts to social and


                                                     - 37 -

economical situations, Government has formed action plans for the tariff adjustments.

8.0    LESSONS LEARNED

The YEP is an important project for Yunnan Province to significantly curb its pollution and to create a
sustained environment for its economic and social development. The implementation process has been a
successful and valuable experience for all the agencies involved. Lessons have been learned in respect of
implementation management, institutional and financial reforms, promotion of environmental protection,
and raise of public awareness and participation. Some of the main points can be summarized here:

1.     Experience was gained in the development of a large scale environmental project, which
comprehensively considering feasibilities, alternatives, least-cost approach, institutional development,
policy support, and the impacts to the environment, society, economy, poverty reduction and long-term
sustainability.
2.     Significant capacity building has been achieved by the adoption of modern project management
method, international practice of bidding and contracting, project supervision, performance measurement,
and the completion evaluation.
3.     WB project implementation rules and procedures on procurement, contracts management, and
construction supervision have been broadly recognized as advanced management procedures. Good
experience has been gained by practicing these rules and procedures. The procedures have been
replicated on similar projects not being financed by WB.
4.     Project base cost and the physical and financial contingencies at Appraisal were excessive,
resulting in large amount of loan savings. For future projects, engineering cost should be carefully
estimated using price-inquiry based method for all the major equipment and for most of the works and
services. Levels of contingencies should be carefully reviewed.
5.     Though the project preparation/implementation capacities have been built at provincial level and
for the YEP involved agencies, other agencies and potential future subproject entities do not have the
capacity. For the future Yunnan WB projects, the WB and the Government should initiate the trainings
early enough for those agencies that may later be involved in project development and implementation.
6.     In the project preparation stage, feasibility studies must be conducted in enough details for all
aspects of technical, financial, economical, institutional, environmental and social topics, following WB
rules and guidelines, so as to pave a sound base for the WB project appraisal, and for the timely and
successful implementation of the project.
7.     Both WB and the Government should avoid setting unduly optimistic goals and objectives for the
project to achieve in the project preparation stage. This includes the goals and objectives in
environmental improvement, institutional achievement, financial improvement, and tariff settings. Some
of the project goals and objectives may have a number of institutional, social and economic constraints.
Setting realistic goals and using stepped approach (with a workable action plan) may be more practical.




                                                     - 38 -

- 39 -

