Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2892 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Yunnan Environment Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 13, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2892 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount of one hundred twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000) 
(the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds 
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
(D)
Yunnan Province (Yunnan) shall carry out the Project, or cause the 
Project to be carried out, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Yunnan the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan 
Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and Yunnan;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Basic Documents" means the charters and business licenses referred to in 
paragraphs (i), (k), (l), (m), (n) and (u) of this Section.
(b)
"Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
"Environmental Action Plans", means, collectively, the Yunnan 
Environmental Impact Assessment and the Sub-project EAPs.
(d)
"Fertilizer Factories" means the Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory and 
the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory (both as hereinafter defined), collectively, 
and "Fertilizer Factory" means either of the Fertilizer Factories.
(e)
"Fertilizer Factory Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the 
agreement to  be entered into between Kunming and Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory 
(both as hereinafter defined) and the agreement to be entered into between Yunnan and 
Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory (both as hereinafter defined), pursuant to Parts 
D.2 and D.3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to said agreements; and "Fertilizer 
Factory Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means, individually, any of the Fertilizer Factory 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(f)
"Financial Agency Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Yunnan and a financial institution pursuant to Part F.3 (b) of Schedule 2 to 
the Project Agreement.
(g)
"foreign currency" means a currency other than the currency of the 
Borrower.
(h)
"Gejiu" means Gejiu Municipality in Yunnan.
 
(i)
"Gejiu Drainage Company" means the Gejiu Municipal Drainage Company, 
Page  3
Limited, a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to 
its Charter dated January 1, 1996 and to Business License No. 21789485-0, dated 
January 10, 1996 issued by Gejiu Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration 
Bureau.
(j)
"Kunming" means Kunming Municipality in Yunnan.
 
(k)
"Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory" means the Kunming Chemical 
Fertilizer Factory, a state-owned enterprise established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter dated May 5, 1990 and to Business License No. 2165 7375-6, dated April 23, 
1994 issued by Kunming Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau.
(l)
"Kunming Drainage Company" means the Kunming Municipal Drainage Company, 
Limited, a state-owned limited liability company established and operating pursuant to 
its Charter dated December 1995 and to Business License No. 29208815-4, dated January 
18, 1996 issued by Kunming Municipal Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau.
(m)
"Kunming Water Supply Company" means the Kunming Municipal Water Supply 
General Company, a state-owned enterprise established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter of August 1990 and to Business License No. 21656015-5, dated August 6, 1992 
issued by Kunming Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau.
(n)
"Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory" means the Kunyang Phosphate 
Fertilizer Factory, a state-owned enterprise established and operating pursuant to its 
Charter dated April 12, 1994, and to Business License No. 21655177-6, dated October 
14, 1994 issued by Yunnan Provincial Industrial and Commercial Administration Bureau.
(o)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(p)
"Operational Regulations" means the manual referred to in Part F.2 (a) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(q)
"Participating Enterprise" means an enterprise to which Yunnan proposes 
to make, or has made, a Sub-loan.
(r)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Yunnan of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(s)
"Project Municipalities" means, collectively, Kunming, Gejiu and Qujing 
and "Project Municipality" means any of the Project Municipalities.
(t)
"Qujing" means Qujing Municipality in Yunnan.
 
(u)
"Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company" means the Qujing Water Supply 
and Drainage Company, Limited, a state-owned limited liability company established and 
operating pursuant to its Charter of March 1996, and to Business License No. 
21723491-6, dated December 14, 1995 issued by Qujing Municipal Industrial and 
Commercial Administration Bureau.
(v)
"Renmibi" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(w)
"Resettlement Action Plans"  means, collectively, the Yunnan Resettlement 
Action Plan and the Sub-project RAPS.
(x)
"Respective Part of the Project" means, the part of the Project specified 
below:
(i)
for Yunnan: Parts D.3, E and F;
 
(ii)
for Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Company: Part D.1;
 
(iii)
for Kunming: Parts A.1, A.4 and A.5;
Page  4
(iv)
for Kunming Water Supply Company: Part A.2;
 
(v)
for Kunming Drainage Company: Part A.3;
 
(vi)
for Kunming Fertilizer Factory: Part D.2;
 
(vii)
for Gejiu Drainage Company: Part B;
 
(viii) for Quijing: Part C.1; and
 
(ix)
for Quijing Water Supply and Drainage Company: Parts C.2 and C.3.
 
(y)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(z)
"Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to be made by Yunnan, out of 
the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Loan, to a Participating Enterprise for a 
Sub-project.
(aa)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project under Part D.3 of the 
Project to be carried out by a Participating Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-loan.
(bb)
"Sub-project EAP" means any environmental action plan prepared pursuant 
to paragraph 2 (c) of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement.
(cc)
"Sub-project RAP" means any resettlement action plan prepared pursuant to 
paragraph 2 (d) of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement.
(dd)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the Utility Company 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (as hereinafter defined) and the Fertilizer Factory 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means, individually, any 
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(ee)
"Utility Company" means, in respect of:
 
(i)
Kunming, the Kunming Drainage Company and the Kunming Water Supply 
Company;
(ii)
Gejiu, the Gejiu Drainage Company; and
 
(iii)
Qujing, the Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company.
 
(ff)
"Utility Company Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the 
agreements to be entered into between each Project Municipality and its Utility 
Company pursuant to Part D.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to said agreements; 
and "Utility  Company Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means, individually, any of the 
Utility Company Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(gg)
"YEPB" means Yunnan's bureau responsible for environmental protection.
 
(hh)
"Yunnan" means Yunnan Province, a political subdivision of the Borrower.
 
(ii)
"Yunnan Environmental Impact Assessment" means the environmental impact 
assessment dated February 4, 1996 and the supplement thereto dated March 31, 1996, and 
includes environmental
mitigation measures and as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements 
ensuring the implementation of said measures.
(jj)
"Yunnan Resettlement Action Plan" means Yunnan's land acquisition, 
removal and resettlement plan, dated April 27, 1996, together with the clarifications 
to said plan dated May 6, 1996, and includes the procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan.
Page  5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 17,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
 
(i)
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) 
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or canceled; and
 
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
 
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
 
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
 
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the 
Borrower; and
 
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of 
that Section.
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2006 and ending February 15, 2031. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2016, shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
Page  6
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Yunnan to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Yunnan therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Yunnan to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to Yunnan the proceeds of the Credit on 
the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Yunnan:
 
(A)
shall be the equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights 
(on the 
date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Credit Account) of 
the value of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn; and
(B)
shall be repaid in foreign currency in amounts equivalent 
(as of the 
date, or respective dates, of repayment) to the 
amount in Special 
Drawing Rights so made available;
 
(ii)
Yunnan shall repay such principal amount over a period of twenty 
(20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge a service charge on such principal 
amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate of 
three-fourths of one percent 
3/4 of 1%) per annum; and
 
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall make available to Yunnan the proceeds of the Loan on 
Page  7
the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Yunnan shall be the 
amount in 
dollars (on the respective dates, of withdrawal from 
the Loan Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn;
(ii)
Yunnan shall repay such principal amount over a period of twenty 
(20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal 
to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement; and
 
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule I to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Yunnan pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
Page  8
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Yunnan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Yunnan will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
Any of the parties to the Financial Agency Agreement or any of the 
parties to any of the  Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have failed to perform any of 
its respective obligations thereunder.
(d)
The Basic Documents shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of any of the 
Utility Companies or Fertilizer Factories to perform any of its respective obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower, Yunnan or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Utility 
Companies or Fertilizer Factories or for the suspension of such entity's operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Utility Company Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on 
behalf of the Project Municipalities and each of their respective Utility Companies;
(b)
Kunming Drainage Company has adopted and is implementing a wastewater 
tariff applicable to all domestic and non-domestic wastewater producers of no less 
than Remninbi 0.35/m3 based on 100% of water consumption; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duty authorized or ratified by 
Yunnan, and is legally binding upon Yunnan in accordance with its terms; and
Page  9
(b)
that each of the Utility Company Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly 
authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding upon said 
parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  10
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                          Amount of
                          the Credit     Amount of
                          Allocated      the Loan          % of
                         (Expressed      Allocated     Expenditures
                           in SDR       (Expressed         to be
Category                 Equivalent)    in Dollars)       Financed
(1) Works                                              45%
   (a) for Part A of the  3,680,000     37,000,000
       Project
   (b) for other works    2,100,000     19,000,000
(2) Goods                                              100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures,
   (a) for Part A of the  4,170,000     22,200,000     100% of local
        Project                                        expenditures (ex
                                                       factory cost) and
   (b)  for Part D.3        700,000      4,000,000     75% of local expen-
        of the Project                                 ditures for other
                                                       items procured
   (c)  for Parts D.1 and     --        17,000,000     locally
        D.2 of the Project
   (d)  other goods       1,750,000     10,000,000
(3) Consultants' services 5,000,000     10,800,000     100%
    and training
(4) Unallocated               --         5,000,000
    TOTAL                17,400,000    125,000,000
                         ==========    ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category 2 (b), until the 
Association shall have:
(i)
approved the Operational Regulations; and
 
Page  11
(ii)
notified the Borrower of its acceptance of evidence that the 
Financial Agency 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties 
thereto and is legally 
binding upon said parties in accordance with 
its terms;
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category 2 (c), until the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its acceptance of evidence that the 
Fertilizer Factory Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
parties thereto and are legally binding upon said parties in accordance with their 
terms;
(d)
payments made for expenditures under Categories 1 (a) and 2 (a), until 
Kunming Drainage Company has submitted to the Association:
(i)
a financial forecast, acceptable to the Association, demonstrating 
that 
Kunming Drainage Company will, for its fiscal year 1997, 
meet the same 
requirements as those set forth for Kunming 
Drainage Company in paragraph B.6 
(a) of Schedule 3 to the Project 
Agreement for each of its fiscal years as of 
1998, on the understanding 
that for the purposes of this sub-paragraph only 
'operating revenues' 
are defined as revenues from all sources related to 
operations as 
well as other sources; and
(ii)
evidence acceptable to the Association, that all waste water 
tariff increases 
included in the assumptions underlying the 
above-mentioned financial forecast 
and required to enable Kunming 
Drainage Company to meet the requirements set 
forth in said paragraph 
B.6 (a) for its fiscal year 1997, have been approved 
by Yunnan; and
 
(e)
payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (a), until the 
consultants for financial technical assistance, construction supervision services and 
sector institutional strengthening of Kunming Drainage Company and Kunming Water 
Supply Company under Part F of the Project, shall have been employed in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for works under contracts costing less than $2,500,000 equivalent each;
 
(b)
for goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each;
 
(c)
for consultants' services under contracts awarded to consulting firms and 
costing less than $ 1 00,000 equivalent each;
(d)
for consultants' services under contracts awarded to individuals and 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and
(e)
for training, regardless of the cost thereof;
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist Yunnan to: (a) strengthen its 
policies, regulatory framework and institutional arrangements for pollution control 
and municipal water, wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil management; (b) improve the 
lake environment in Kunming and Gejiu so that lake waters can be used for drinking, 
industry, agriculture and other purposes; (c) support investments in pollution control 
and municipally-provided urban environmental services; and (d) introduce a 
comprehensive approach to planning and financing of urban environmental infrastructure 
investments.
The Project which constitutes part of Yunnan's long-term environmental 
Page  12
improvement program, consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Kunming and Lake Dianchi Basin Management
 
1.
Kunming Municipal Solid Waste Management
 
Construction and equipping of a landfill at Hongshuitang, a land-fill at 
Baishuitang and about 18 transfer stations throughout Kunming, provision of collection 
and transportation vehicles and provision of technical assistance for institutional 
development and training for solid waste management staff.
2.
Kunming Water Supply
 
Construction and equipping of a raw water pipeline of about 14.7 kilometers (km) 
from Songhuaba, water treatment works of about 100,000 cubic meters per day (m3/day) 
at Beijiaochang, a concrete storage reservoir at Xiaotunshan of about 10,000 m3/day 
capacity, distribution connections within the city of about 12 km, extension of the 
No. 1 water treatment works of about 70,000 m3/day capacity and augmentation 
facilities at Songhuaba Reservoir to enhance its reliability, and provision of 
equipment for metering and utility system management.
3.
Kunming Wastewater
 
Construction and equipping of sewers, force mains and ancillary equipment for 
the central area sewerage rehabilitation (about 57 km), for the southern suburbs 
sewerage systems (about 4 km), for the northern suburbs sewerage systems (about 52 
km), for the eastern suburbs sewerage systems (about 30 km) and the western suburbs 
sewerage systems (about 54 km); construction and equipping of waste-water treatment 
facilities at Plant No. 1 (about 65,000 m3/day additional capacity), Plant No. 4B 
(about 75,000 m3/day capacity) and Plant No. 5 (about 50,000 m3/day capacity); 
construction of link and connecting sewers and a sewerage maintenance depot and 
provision of sewer cleaning and safety equipment.
4.
Small Towns Wastewater
 
Construction of about 23 km of trunk and secondary sewers and a  water treatment 
plant of about 15,000 m3/day capacity in the town of Chenggong and of about 8 km of 
trunk and secondary sewers and a wastewater treatment plant of about 15,000 m3/day 
capacity in the town of Jinning.
5.
Rural Sanitation
 
Demonstrating appropriate wastewater treatment technology and environmental 
management for replication in the Dianchi and Songhuaba catchments through 
implementation of about three pilot projects.
Part B:
Gejiu Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
 
Construction of about 7 km of sewers and a pump station, rehabilitation and 
construction of storm drainage facilities, a wastewater treatment plant of about 
25,000 m3/day capacity and water balance facilities in Gejiu Lake, so that the lake's 
water can be used for agricultural and industrial purposes.
Part C:
Qujing Investments
 
1.
Municipal Solid Waste Management
 
Construction of a landfill at Dagou/Xiaopo of about 1.8 million m3 capacity and 
about 2 transfer stations throughout the city, provision of collection and 
transportation vehicles, and provision of technical assistance for institutional 
development and training for solid waste management staff.
2.
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
 
Construction and equipping of about 12 km of the trunk collector sewer systems, 
Page  13
the northern area sanitary sewer systems (about 20 km) and connecting sewers in the 
north and eastern areas; construction and equipping of a wastewater treatment plan and 
provision of sewer cleaning and safety equipment.
3.
Water Supply
 
Construction and equipping of distribution system pipelines of about 19 km in 
the northern and eastern areas of the city, a raw water transmission pipeline (about 
34 km) from the DuMu reservoir to the city, a raw water transmission tunnel of about 9 
km and an extension of the existing water treatment plant at North Qujing to provide 
additional capacity of about 30,000 m3/day.
Part D:
Industrial Pollution Control
 
1.
Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory
 
Construction and equipping at the Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory of a 
production facility of sulfuric acid and other phosphate products, circulating water 
systems, a water treatment facility and a wastewater treatment plant and 
rehabilitation of the intermediate wastewater treatment plant and wastewater stream 
segregation.
2.
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory
 
Construction and equipping at the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory of a new 
sulfuric acid plant and wastewater treatment plant, upgrading and rehabilitation of 
coal gas cleaning facilities, waste-water segregation facilities, and facilities for 
process water recycling and wastewater treatment for nitrogen removal.
3.
Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loans
 
Establishment and operation of a revolving credit facility for the financing, 
through Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loans, of specific development projects to 
upgrade in-plant technology processes of enterprises designed to reduce polluting 
discharges by said enterprises.
Part E:
Environmental Monitoring and Data Management
 
Upgrading the facilities and strengthening management capacity at the 
environmental monitoring stations for Yunnan, Kunming, Honghe Prefecture, Gejiu, 
Qujing Prefecture and Qujing and at the Yunnan Radiation Monitoring Institute, 
including provision of consultants' services and training.
Part F:
Institutional Development and Training
 
Strengthening the capacity of provincial and municipal level environment, water 
and waste management institutions in project management, financial management, 
construction supervision, utility operations, investment project preparation and 
preparation of environmental plans, through provision of consultants' services and 
training.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3).
 
(b)
The term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
or the  Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
Page  14
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, 
that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Part D of Schedule 4 to the 
Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special Account before the Association 
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account or the Loan Account in 
respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures 
only if the Association shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals.
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duty opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
Page  15
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the applicable General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or
 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:
 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so 
request, refund to the Association or the 
Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be,
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the 
General Conditions applicable
thereto.
