Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2892 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4055 CHA
Project Agreement
(Yunnan Environment Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
YUNNAN PROVINCE
Dated September 13, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2892 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4055 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 1996, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and YUNNAN PROVINCE (Yunnan).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People's Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventeen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,400,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Yunnan agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's Republic of 
China (the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount 
of one hundred twenty-five million dollars ($125,000,000), on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Yunnan agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS Yunnan, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in 
this Agreement (except in Section 5.04 of this Agreement, as well as Part C.1 of 
Schedule 2 and Part A.1 (b) of Schedule 3 to this Agreement), reference to the 
Association, the Credit and the Credit Account shall also be deemed as a reference to 
the Bank, the Loan and the Loan Account, respectively.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Yunnan declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall:
(i)
carry out Parts D. 3, E and F of the Project and carry out Part 
D.1 of the  
Project through Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory;
 
(ii)
cause Kunming to carry out Parts A and D.2 of the Project, of 
which Part A.2 
shall be carried out through the Kunming Water Supply 
Company, Part A.3 
through the Kunming Drainage Company, and Part 
D.2 through the Kunming 
Chemical Fertilizer Factory;
 
(iii)
cause Gejiu to carry out Part B of the Project through the Gejiu 
Drainage Company; 
and
 
(iv)
cause Qujing to carry out Part C of the Project, of which Parts 
C.2 and C.3 
shall be carried out through the wastewater unit and water 
supply units, 
respectively, of the Qujing Water Supply and 
Drainage Company;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, public utility and environmental standards and 
practices, and Yunnan shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Yunnan shall otherwise agree, Yunnan shall carry out 
the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Yunnan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable to the 
Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of 
the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions applicable to 
the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General Conditions applicable 
to the Loan Agreement, and without limitation thereto, Yunnan shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
Page  3
with the 
Borrower on said plan.
 
Section 2.04. (a) Yunnan shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Yunnan shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Yunnan of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Yunnan shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Yunnan as well as the Project Municipalities responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Yunnan shall or shall cause to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Yunnan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with their terms; or
 
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement or both of said 
Agreements terminates in accordance with its terms before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Yunnan of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Page  4
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
parry shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Yunnan:
Yunnan Environmental Project
Office for Foreign Funding
No. 23 Wang Jiaba, Qi Xiang Road
Kunming 650034
People's Republic of China
Telex:
64075 FAOYN CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Yunnan may be 
taken or executed by Vice Governor responsible for the environment or such other 
person or persons as said Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Yunnan shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to Yunnan 
and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the 
termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of Yunnan to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, Yunnan shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to  both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
YUNNAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following, 
provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
 
Bidders for treatment equipment under contracts estimated to cost more than 
$4,000,000 shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.09 
and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $6,000,000 or more each, and contracts 
for goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(d)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  6
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
International Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost less than $6,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000,000 equivalent, and goods (other than goods 
required for a Sub-project) estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
(a)
Goods (other than goods required for a Sub-project), estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods required for a Sub-project may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$2,500,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
Page  7
not apply to:
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
 
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
 
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
 
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising 
the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation 
Program shall consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below.
A.
Project Management
 
1.
Yunnan shall continue to maintain a provincial project office, with functions 
satisfactory to the Association, staffed by qualified staff in adequate numbers, to be 
responsible for the overall coordination and supervision of Project execution, the 
supervision of the procurement of
goods and services thereunder, the overall assessment of quality and impact of the 
Project and the preparation and furnishing to the Association of reports and other 
information thereon.
2.
Yunnan shall ensure that each of the Project Municipalities shall continue to 
maintain its municipal project office with functions satisfactory to the Association, 
staffed by qualified staff in adequate numbers, to be responsible for: the 
coordination and supervision of the execution of its Respective Part of the Project; 
the supervision of the procurement of goods and services under its Respective Part of 
the Project; and the preparation and furnishing to said provincial project
office of reports and other information thereon.
B.
Resettlement and Environmental Action Plans
 
1.
Yunnan shall take, and shall cause the Project Municipalities, each Utility 
Company and Participating Enterprise to take, all measures necessary to ensure that 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans and 
the Environmental Action Plans.
2.
Yunnan shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement Action Plans 
or the  Environmental Action Plans shall be furnished to the Association for prior 
approval.
3.
Yunnan shall cause Kunming to take all steps necessary to ensure that the 
Kunming Iron and Steel Plant, the Yunfeng Paper Mill and the Kunming Pesticide Plant 
shall implement their environmental management improvement action plans, dated April 
30, 1996, in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.
C.
Financial Arrangements
 
Yunnan shall allocate to each Project Municipality an amount out of the proceeds 
of the Credit under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, 
without limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to each Project Municipality:
 
(i)
shall be the equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights (on the 
Page  8
date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of 
the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of 
said Project Municipality's 
Respective Part of the Project and for 
its Utility Company's, and in the case 
of Kunming, for the Kunming 
Fertilizer Factory's Respective Part of the 
Project; and
 
(ii)
shall be repaid in foreign currency in amounts equivalent (as of 
the date, or 
respective dates, of repayment) to the amount in Special 
Drawing Rights so 
made available;
 
(b)
Each Project Municipality shall repay such principal amount over a period 
of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
(c)
Yunnan shall charge a service charge on such principal amount, withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum; and
(d)
Yunnan shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.
2.
Yunnan shall allocate to each Project Municipality an amount out of the proceeds 
of the Loan under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, 
without limitation, the following principal terms:
(a)
the principal amount so made available to each Project Municipality shall 
be the amount in dollars (on the respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account) 
of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of said Project 
Municipality's Respective Part of the Project;
(b)
Each Project Municipality shall repay such principal amount over a period 
of seventeen (17) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
(c)
Yunnan shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from 
time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)
Yunnan shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum.
3.
Yunnan shall cause Kunming and Qujing to:
 
(a)
complete, not later than July 1, 1997, in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association for comments a 
study of the recovery of the full costs of providing solid waste collection and 
disposal services to industrial and commercial users, including a detailed time-bound 
action plan, enabling the implementation of such full cost recovery by not later than 
January 1, 1998; and
(b)
thereafter implement the said action plan taking into account the 
Association's comments thereon.
D.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
 
1.
Yunnan shall cause each Project Municipality to relend the portion of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to it pursuant to Part C of this Schedule for the 
purpose of carrying out its Utility Company's Respective Part of the Project, to its 
Utility Company, under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between said 
Project Municipality and its Utility Company, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association, and which shall include, without
limitation, those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
2.
Yunnan shall cause Kunming to relend the portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to it pursuant to Part C of this Schedule for the purpose of carrying out 
Part D.2 of the Project, to the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory, under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Kunming and the Kunming Chemical 
Page  9
Fertilizer Factory, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 
3 to this Agreement.
3.
Yunnan shall, for the purpose of carrying out Part D.1 of the Project relend a 
portion of  the proceeds of the Credit to the Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory 
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Yunnan and the Kunyang 
Phosphate Fertilizer Factory under terms and conditions which shall have been approved 
by the Association, and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
(a)
Yunnan shall cause Kunyang Phosphate Fertilizer Factory, and ensure that 
each Project Municipality shall cause its Utility Company and, for Kunming, the 
Kunming Chemical Fertilizer  Factory, to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to 
which said Utility Company or Fertilizer Factory is a party, 
all of the 
obligations of said Utility Company or Fertilizer 
Factory therein set forth;
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable 
said Utility Company or Fertilizer Factory to 
perform such obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere 
with such performance; and
 
(b)
Yunnan shall, and shall cause each Project Municipality to exercise its 
rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a party in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association, Yunnan and said Project 
Municipality and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to which Yunnan or said Project Municipality is a party or any 
provision thereof.
E.
Institutional Development and Training
 
Yunnan shall carry out Part F of the Project in accordance with a schedule 
acceptable to the Association, and shall ensure that each of the Project 
Municipalities fully cooperates in the carrying out of said Part of the Project. Any 
proposed revision to the aforementioned schedule shall be furnished to the Association 
for its prior approval.
F.
Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loans under Part D.3 of the Project
 
1.
Yunnan shall make Sub-loans on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
2.
Yunnan shall:
 
(a)
adopt a manual (the Operational Regulations) governing the operation of 
the revolving credit facility under Part D.3 of the Project and acceptable to the 
Association; and
(b)
implement Part D.3 of the Project in accordance with the said manual.
 
3.
Yunnan shall:
 
(a)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying 
out of Sub-projects, in accordance with the Operational Regulations;
(b)
to this end, enter into an agreement (the Financial Agency Agreement) 
with a financial institution acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association, whereby said financial institution shall act as agent 
for Yunnan for the purposes
of carrying out of the financial and technical appraisal of Sub-projects and for the 
Page  10
disbursement of the proceeds of Sub-loans as well as the collection of amounts 
thereunder;
(c)
utilize all amounts repaid on Sub-loans, to the extent they are not vet 
required to meet Yunnan's repayment obligations to the Borrower, to finance additional 
Subprojects in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association;
(d)
exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower and achieve the purposes of 
the Project;
(e)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Association; 
and
(f)
furnish any proposed amendment to the Financial Agency Agreement or the 
Operational Regulations to the Association for its prior approval.
4.
Yunnan shall make available to the revolving credit facility under Part D.3 of 
the Project, for the purpose of making Sub-loans, at least Yuan 14,000,000 not later 
than June 30 in each of the years 1997, 1998 and 1999 under arrangements satisfactory 
to the Association.
G.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
1.
Monitoring
 
Yunnan shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project, including the Yunnan Resettlement Action 
Plans and the Environmental Action Plans, as well as the achievement of the objectives 
thereof.
2.
Reporting
 
Yunnan shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, the following reports:
(a)
reports not later than January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30 in 
each year, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph 1 above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Project during the immediately preceding calendar year quarter and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the then current
calendar quarter, the October 30 report shall include the latest Project cost estimate 
and financial. plan for the following calendar year; and
(b)
a mid-term report not later than June 30, 1999, integrating the results 
of the monitoring and reporting activities performed pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 
(a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
3.
Consultation
 
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 2 above, Yunnan shall 
review said report with the Association, and promptly take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project (including, when applicable, the 
carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Action Plans) and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
Page  11
The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Annex shall 
apply for the purposes of Parts D.1, D.2 and D.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms
 
1.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan made by Yunnan to the Kunyang 
Phosphorus Fertilizer Factory, by a Project Municipality to its Utility Company and, 
for Kunming, to the Kunming Chemical Fertilizer Factory, shall be the sum of:
(a)
the amount in dollars (on the respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of 
said Utility Company's or Fertilizer Factory's Respective Part of the Project (the 
"Dollar Equivalent Principal Amount"); and
(b)
the equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights (on the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn on account of said Utility Company's or Fertilizer 
Factory's Respective Part of the Project (the "SDR Equivalent Principal Amount").
2.
The Dollar Equivalent Principal Amount referred to in Part A.1 (a) of this 
Schedule shall be repaid in foreign currency in amounts equivalent (as of the date, or 
respective dates, of repayment) to the amount in dollars so made available. The SDR 
Equivalent Principal Amount referred to in Part A.1 (b) of this Schedule shall be 
repaid in foreign currency in amounts equivalent (as of the date, or respective dates, 
of repayment) to the amount in Special Drawing Rights so made available.
3.
Each Utility Company shall repay such principal amount over a period of fifteen 
(15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.  Each Fertilizer Factory 
shall repay such principal amount over a period of ten (10) years, inclusive of a 
grace period of three years.
4.
Each Subsidiary Loan shall bear interest on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time  to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement, plus, for the Fertilizer Factories only, a spread of not less than one and 
one-half percent (1.5%) per annum.
5.
Yunnan and the Project Municipality concerned shall charge a commitment charge 
on such principal amount, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
B.
Conditions
 
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal conditions.
1.
Each Utility Company and Fertilizer Factory shall undertake to:
 
(a)
carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate technical, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices; and
 
(ii)
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards acceptable 
to the 
Association, and provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities and other 
resources required for the purpose; and
 
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing take all measures necessary to ensure 
that its Respective Part of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the 
Yunnan Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental Impact Assessment.
2.
Each Utility Company and Fertilizer Factory shall undertake to procure the goods 
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods and services 
exclusively in the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project.
Page  12
3.
Each Utility Company and Fertilizer Factory shall undertake to enable the 
Association, Yunnan and the Project Municipality concerned to inspect such goods and 
the sites and works included in its Respective Part of the Project, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
4.
Each Utility Company and Fertilizer Factory shall undertake to take out and 
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including, without 
limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Utility Company or Fertilizer Factory, as the case may 
be, to replace or repair such goods.
5.
Each Utility Company and Fertilizer Factory shall undertake to:
 
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition;
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and 
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association and the Project Municipality concerned;
(c)
furnish to Yunnan, the Project Municipality concerned, and for each 
Utility Company also to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for 
such year as so 
audited; and
 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail 
as Yunnan, 
the Association and/or said Project Municipality shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and
 
(d)
prepare and furnish to Yunnan, the Association and the Project 
Municipality concerned all such other information concerning said records, accounts 
and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as Yunnan, the Association 
and/or said Project Municipality shall reasonably request.
6.
The Kunming Drainage Company, Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company and the 
Gejiu Drainage Company shall undertake to:
(a)
produce for each fiscal year as of 1997 (for the Qujing Water Supply and 
Drainage Company and the Gejiu Drainage Company), and for each fiscal year as of 1998 
(for the Kunming Drainage Company), total operating revenues related to wastewater 
operations and, for Qujing Water Supply and Drainage Company, total operating revenues 
related to water supply operations, equivalent to not less than the sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses related to such operations; and
 
(ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds the 
provision for 
depreciation;
 
(b)
review, before September 30 in each fiscal year, and on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Association, whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and furnish to the Association the results of such review 
upon its completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set 
forth in subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure or levels of its tariffs) in
order to meet such requirements.
Page  13
7.
Each Utility Company shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated net revenues for 
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 
times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt 
including the debt to be incurred.
8.
The Kunming Water Supply Company shall undertake to:
 
(a)
produce, for each of its fiscal years, commencing in its fiscal year 
1997, funds from internal sources which shall always be positive and not less than 20% 
of the annual average of its capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be 
incurred, for the year, the previous fiscal year and the next following fiscal year;
(b)
before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Kunming Water Supply 
Company shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the 
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in sub-paragraph 
(a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to 
the Association a copy of such review upon its completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that the Kunming Water Supply Company would not 
meet the requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (a) for its fiscal years covered by 
such review, the Kunming Water Supply Company shall promptly take all necessary 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its 
rates) in order to meet such requirements.
9.
Yunnan and each Project Municipality shall have the right to suspend or 
terminate the right of each Utility Company or Fertilizer Factory to which it has made 
a Subsidiary Loan to the use of the proceeds of such Subsidiary Loan upon failure by 
said Utility Company or Fertilizer Factory to perform its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
C.
Definitions
 
1.
For purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all sources 
related to operations.
(b)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu 
of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a straight-line basis at a rate of not 
less than 3.3% per annum of the average current gross value of the Utility Company's 
fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the Association, but excluding 
interest and other charges on debt.
(c)
The average current gross value of the Utility Company's fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of its fixed 
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments  including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(e)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Utility Company maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(f)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
 
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing 
for such debt 
or for the modification of its terms of payment on 
the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and
 
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing 
for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
 
Page  14
(g)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(i)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and net 
non-operating income; and
(ii)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and 
other charges on debt.
 
(h)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred 
in the 
generation of revenues in (i) above.
 
(i)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the Utility 
Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the Association and said Utility Company accept as reasonable and 
as to which the Association has notified said Utility Company of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of said Utility Company.
(j)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference between:
 
(i)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits 
and consumer contributions in aid of construction, 
net non-operating income 
and any reduction in working, capital other 
than cash; and
(ii)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes (excluding 
provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash 
dividends and other cash distributions of surplus, 
increase in 
working capital other than cash and other cash outflows other than 
capital expenditures.
(k)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference between 
current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(l)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(m)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(n)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, related to operations.
2.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  15
Sub-loans
A.
Terms
 
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan financed:
 
(a)
shall be the equivalent in terms of dollars (determined as of the date, 
or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Credit Account or Loan Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of the Sub-project for 
which said Sub-loan has been made; and
(b)
shall be repaid in foreign currency in amounts equivalent (as of the 
date, or respective dates, of repayment) to the amount in dollars so made available.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall:
 
(a)
bear interest, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate applicable from time to time to the 
Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement plus a spread of not less than 
1.5%;
(b)
carry a commitment fee on the principal amount of said loan not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum; and
(c)
be repaid within a period not exceeding 5 years, inclusive of a grace 
period not exceeding 2 years.
3.
The total estimated cost of each Sub-Project (excluding the cost of land) shall 
not exceed $1,000,000. The aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made to any one 
Participating Enterprise shall not exceed the equivalent of $500000.  The aggregate 
amount of all Sub-loans made for any one Sub-project shall not exceed the lesser of: 
(a)
50% of the total estimated cost (excluding the cost of land) of such 
Subproject; or
(b)
100% of the foreign currency cost of such Sub-project.
 
B.
Eligibility/Appraisal
 
1.
Each Sub-loan shall be made only to a Participating Enterprise which:
 
(a)
is an enterprise duly established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower; and
(b)
shall have established on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the 
Association, that it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient 
carrying out of its operations, including the Sub-project.
2.
Sub-projects shall be appraised and selected on the basis of technical, 
financial, environmental and resettlement criteria acceptable to the Association. Such 
criteria shall include, without limitation:
(a)
Financial: the Participating Enterprise needs to demonstrate that it can 
maintain a debt service coverage ratio (as defined in Parts B.7 and C of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement) of not less than 1.4 times after the proposed Sub-project has reached 
full production capacity;
(b)
Technical: Sub-projects shall be technically viable based on an 
assessment of:
(i)
the Sub-project's impact on the ambient environment;
 
(ii)
the Sub-project's investment and operating cost per unit pollution 
load reduction;
 
Page  16
(iii)
the efforts made by the Participating Enterprise on pollution 
prevention;
(iv)
the Participating Enterprise's record regarding compliance with 
environmental 
regulations and standards; and
 
(v)
the Sub-project's technical feasibility and least-cost option.
 
(c)
Environmental for each Sub-project an environmental action plan shall be 
prepared and  evaluated, including an assessment of the Participating Enterprise's and 
the Sub-project's adverse impact on the environment and appropriate mitigation 
measures to be carried out to remedy such impact based on procedures and principles 
acceptable to the Association;
(d)
Resettlement: for each Sub-project involving the involuntary resettlement 
of any persons in connection therewith, a resettlement action plan based on procedures 
and principles acceptable to the Association shall be prepared and evaluated. 
Resettlement action plans shall be prepared in consultation with the affected persons 
on the basis of policies, planning principles and institutional arrangements designed 
to improve the living standards of the said persons, together with satisfactory 
operational procedures adequate to enable the monitoring and evaluation of the 
implementation of the said resettlement plan.
C.
Utilization of Sub-loan proceeds
 
The proceeds of Sub-loans shall be withdrawn only to finance expenditures for 
materials, equipment and services required for a Sub-project.
D.
Other conditions
 
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Association and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which 
the Association shall have received the application and information required under 
Section (a) of this Part in respect of such Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the 
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and such expenditures 
shall have been made not earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which the 
Association shall have received the request
and information required under Section 2 (b) of this Part in respect of such 
free-limit Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Schedule, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be 
a Sub-loan (other than the first three (3) Sub-loans made) in an amount to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $300,000 
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of any other loan, provided for in any 
outstanding agreement between the Borrower and the Association, the proceeds of which 
have been or are being used for financing goods and services directly and materially 
related to such Sub-project, the foregoing amounts being subject to change from time 
to time as determined by the Association.
2.
(a)
Each application for approval by the Association of a Sub-loan (other 
than a free-limit Sub-loan) shall be in form satisfactory to the Association, and 
shall include:
(i)
a description of the Participating Enterprise and an appraisal of 
the 
Subproject, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
 
(ii)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of 
amortization thereof; and
 
(iii)
such other information as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
Page  17
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: 
(i)
a summary description of the Participating Enterprise and the 
Subproject, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; and
 
(ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization 
thereof.
 
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be made on further conditions whereby Yunnan shall obtain, 
by written contract with the Participating Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the 
interests of the Association and Yunnan, including:
(a)
that the Participating Enterprise shall undertake to:
 
(i)
carry out and operate the Sub-project (including completion of 
abatement 
measures, the Sub-project Environmental Action Plan 
and, if applicable, the 
Sub-project Resettlement Action Plan), with 
due diligence and efficiency and 
in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and 
appropriate safety, health 
and environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Association, 
maintain adequate records and provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(ii)
procure the goods and services required for the Sub-project in 
accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
utilize such goods and 
services exclusively in the carrying out 
of its Subproject;
(iii)
enable the Association and Yunnan to inspect such goods and the 
sites and 
works included in its Sub-project the operation 
thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
 
(iv)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance 
against such 
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business 
practice, including, without limitation, such 
insurance to cover hazards 
incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods required for 
the Sub-project to 
the place of use or on, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely usable by the Participating Enterprise to replace 
or repair such goods; and
(v)
prepare and furnish to Yunnan, as the case may be, for forwarding 
to the 
Association, if it shall so request, all such 
information as the Association 
or Yunnan shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations 
and financial condition of the Participating 
Enterprise and to 
the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and
(b)
provisions to ensure the right of Yunnan to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Participating Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon 
failure by such Participating Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract 
providing for the Sub-loan.
