Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7491-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty 
Reduction Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 28, 2007 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated November 28, 2007, entered into between 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES  
(the Borrower), represented by its signatory on page 6 of this Agreement
 (
“Borrower”) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the 
actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million five hundred ten thousand 
Dollars ($200,510,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower, through SHF, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower, through SHF, for each Interest Period shall be at a 
rate equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Notwithstanding the forgoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then 
the interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 
3.02(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may, or may cause SHF to, at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt 
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable 
Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions 
of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
2.09 The 
Director General Adjunto de Finanzas de SHF
,
and any person or persons whom he 
or she shall designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article II of the General Conditions 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower, through SHF, shall furnish 
to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
Page  4
-3- 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
3.02 
(a)  
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
Contrato de Mandato
)
with SHF, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby:
 
(i) 
SHF agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to the 
Loan, meaning that, inter alia, SHF agrees to represent the Borrower vis-
à-vis the Bank for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal applications 
to the Bank in form and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by 
the Bank to the Borrower of Loan proceeds and agrees to maintain and 
operate the Deposit Account in compliance with the terms of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower, through SHCP, shall cooperate fully with SHF to ensure 
that SHF is able to comply with all of SHF’s obligations referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section. 
 
(b)  
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the  
 
Contrato de Mandato
 in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and 
 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
 
Contrato de Mandato
.
In case of any conflict between the terms of the 
Contrato 
 de 
Mandato
 and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall 
 prevail. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) T
he
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in the opinion of the 
Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
Page  5
-4- 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS, TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been executed by the parties thereto; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower (in its legal opinion) and SHF (in a separate legal opinion 
satisfactory to the Bank, issued by SHF counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the 
Contrato de Mandato
 has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf of, the Borrower and SHF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and SHF in 
accordance with the 
Contrato de Mandato
’s terms. 
 
5.02 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen 
(18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on May 27, 2009. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the 
Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of SHCP. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-55-3688-1156 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  7
-6- 
 
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By
 /s/ Gerardo Rodríguez Regordosa 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-7- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the
Program
1. 
The Borrower through CONAVI  has (a) reformed the existing federal housing 
subsidy system (including modification of its operational rules) and (b) implemented a new 
federal subsidy program (including design of operational rules and allocation of corresponding 
budget for 2007) to, 
inter-alia:
 improve equity across programs; prevent combining subsidies 
from multiple federal programs; establish consistent rules for beneficiary selection (including by 
income group); and link receipt of subsidy to household savings. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has established new partnerships and incorporated new products 
into 
SHF’s operation to finance home improvement, addition, and purchase of existing housing 
for low- and moderate-income groups. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through CONAVI, has signed, since January 2006, property 
registry modernization agreements with at least eleven (11) additional states of the Mexican 
federation. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has: (a) through SEDESOL, completed a quantitative cost/benefit 
analysis of land development; and (b) through SHF and SEDESOL, implemented a pilot program 
that facilitates land development for low- and moderate-income housing. 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower, through SHF, may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The 
allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
 
200,008,725 
 
Front end Fee 
501,275 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
200,510,000 
C. Payment 
of 
Front-end 
Fee. 
 
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower, through SHF, and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in
 the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2008. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Dates 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning: March 15, 2013 
 
through September 15, 2022 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“CONAVI” means 
Co
misión Nacional de Vivienda
,
the Borrower’s National Housing 
Commission, established under Article 1 of the relevant Borrower’s Decree, published in 
the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 26, 2001 as amended on June 28, 2006. 
 
2. “
Contrato de Mandato
”
means the contract referred to in Section 3.02(a) of this 
Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  13
-12- 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party[, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank]. 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 17, 2007) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
5. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty (in the housing and urban sectors) 
and set forth or referred to in the letter dated October 3, 2007 from the Borrower to the 
Bank declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
 
6. “SEDESOL” 
means 
Secretaría de Desarrollo Social
,
the Borrower’s Social Development 
Ministry. 
 
7. “SHCP” 
means 
Secr
etaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance and Public Credit. 
 
8. “SHF” 
means 
Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, S.N.C.
,
the Borrower’s development bank 
in charge of promoting the development of mortgage markets, regulated under SHF’s 
organic law published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 11, 2001 and, for 
purposes of this Loan, the Borrower’s financial agent. 
 
9. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development General 
Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 17, 2007) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
Page  15
-14- 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
 
