Page  1
1
AB3353 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT 
 (DECISION STAGE) 
 
Project Name 
Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction DPL-III 
Region 
Latin America and  the Caribbean 
Sector 
Other social services; Housing finance and real state markets; Central 
Government Administration; Subnational Government Administration; Law 
and Justice 
Project ID 
P101342 
Borrower(s) 
United Mexican States 
Implementing Agency 
Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF) 
Date PID Prepared 
September 17, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 27, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 15, 2007 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
1. 
The Mexico housing and urban poverty reduction program continues to be robust with strong ownership 
from the Government of Mexico. As Table 1 below shows the number of housing subsidies continue to increase 
while being better targeted to the poor (<3 MW segment) and (for the first time in Mexico) incentivizing used 
housing. The housing microfinance pilot has made steady progress with the number of microfinance loans 
increasing. The number of plots allocated to beneficiaries of the program Habitat for low-income housing has also 
increased. Based on the strong progress, i
t
is the team’s assessment that the HUDPL program is substantially on 
track and this note proposes approval of HUDPL-III in November 2007. 
 
Table 1: Selected monitoring indicators  
Indicator 2004 
2005 
2006 
Total number of housing solutions 
738,600 
768,532 
952,763 
Total number of subsidies  
302,173 
445,952 
616,073 
Total amount of subsidies to households earning < 3MW 
 /
Total amount of subsidies 
0.07 0.33 
0.36 
Total number of HMF loans 
n.a. 
45 
1,336 
Financial sustainability (SHF)* 
 
1.01 
1.04 
Number of slums that have prepared participatory plans 
under Habitat 
n.a. 0 
75 
Number of serviced lots that have been allocated to < 
5MW beneficiaries under Habitat 
0
2,900 3,600 
Number of cities that have prepared Risk Atlases  
2 
11 
56 
*
Defined as:  Total internally generated income / ( total expenses + imputed cost of capital) 
 
Source: CONAVI, SHF and SEDESOL 
 
Proposed Objective(s)
 
Page  2
2
2. 
The Calderon administration has maintained the previous government’s commitment to address Mexico’s 
critical housing and urban development needs. The National Development Plan 2007-20121 aims to increase 
access to housing for the poorest segments of the population in an orderly, rational and sustainable context.  The 
program has emerged from the consultations held by the Federal Government in various regional forums2 held 
between January and March 2007. It has seven goals: 
 
·
Strengthen tenure security through the standardization of property registries, municipal cadastres and 
rural registries as well as the mandatory registry of properties.  
·
Increase the coverage and variety of housing finance options available.  
·
Increase the supply of adequate land for housing construction and economic development.  
·
Re-use of the existing urban infrastructure,  
·
Consolidation of the National Housing System.  
·
Generate a dynamic used housing market and assist the development of an efficient rental market  
·
Promote housing improvement and create conditions to foster progressive housing and social housing 
production through alternative financial products and support for the lower-income population.  
 
Preliminary Description 
 
3. 
The proposed Third Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction Development Policy Loan 
(HUDPL-III) will support a number of the new administration’s priorities and initiatives in the housing and 
construction sector. It consolidates and deepens the reforms undertaken under the first and second loans (HUSAL 
and HUDPL-II) which were approved in April 2004 and November 2005 respectively. 
 
Table 1 below gives the team’s assessment of the status of individual triggers for HUDPL-III. 
 
Table 1: Status of Proposed Key Prior Actions for HUDPL III 
 
Policy area 
Key prior actions 
Status 
Housing 
subsidies 
Government has reformed the existing subsidy system to 
improve equity across programs; prevent combining 
subsidies from multiple federal programs
3
;
establish 
consistent rules for beneficiary selection, including by 
income group; and link receipt of the subsidy to household 
savings through (i) designing operational rules and 
corresponding budget allocation (2007) and implementing 
new federal subsidy program, and (ii)  modifying 
operational rules of existing subsidy programs. 
Met 
 
Housing credit 
and household 
savings 
SHF mainstreams financing of home improvement and 
addition to and purchase of existing housing in accordance 
with standards agreed between GoM and World Bank 
Met 
Urban property 
registries and 
rights 
Property registry modernization program is expanded to 
cumulatively cover at least 18 states (representing 11 
additional states), which comprise at least 80 percent of 
Met 
1
The National Development Plan 2007-2012 may be seen at 
http://pnd.presidencia.gob.mx/index.html
.
The section on housing and construction may be 
seen at 
http://pnd.calderon.presidencia.gob.mx/pdf/Eje2_Economia_Competitiva_y_Generadora_de_Empleos/2_13_Construccion_y_Vivienda.pdf
2
CONAFOVI, 2001, 
Programa Sectorial de Vivienda 2001-2006
,
available at http://www.conafovi.gob.mx/secciones/banner/programa 
percent20sectorial/index.htm. 
3
With the exception of the lowest income members of the housing funds, who under the new integrated 
Casa Ayuda
 program receive an up-front subsidy.  
Looking ahead the Bank team has recommended that the up-front subsidy gradually replace internal interest rate cross-subsidies in the housing funds. 
Page  3
3
the urban population (potential users). 
Low- and 
moderate-
income land 
development 
Government has completed a quantitative cost/benefit 
analysis of land development and has implemented a pilot 
program that facilitates low- and moderate-income land 
development. 
Met 
4. 
The individual policy areas of the Program for which there were triggers within HUDPL-III are discussed 
in detail below.  
P
OLICY 
A
REA 
1: M
ACROECONOMIC 
F
RAMEWORK
 
Key prior actions for HUDPL III  
 
5. 
The key prior action of maintaining a sound macroeconomic framework consistent with the policy 
objectives has been met.
 During 2004
–06, the Mexican economy experienced above-average economic expansion 
(section II). The growth acceleration was supported by a favorable external environment of strong global 
economic growth and strong demand for Mexican manufactured goods, international liquidity and access to 
external finance, and high international oil prices. A subsequent deceleration in global expansion and in US 
economic activity has weakened Mexico’s recent growth performance. Yet, these outside forces have motivated 
Mexico to press ahead with more ambitious efforts to tackle structural challenges and impediments to enhanced 
economic growth. Mexico’s recent public pension reform should enhance the country’s fiscal sustainability and 
commitment to stay on a sustainable public debt path.  
P
OLICY 
A
REA 
2: H
OUSING 
S
UBSIDIES
 
Key prior actions for HUDPL III  
 
6. 
The original wording of the trigger has been redrafted to better reflect the mechanisms through which the 
subsidy reform is being implemented
4
.
There are two important changes in the new text. 
First
,
the original text 
described the main characteristics of a new subsidy system linking them to the approved budget for 2008. As 
early as November 2006, the transition team confirmed to the Bank its interest in continuing the reforms 
supported by the DPL program. Accordingly, the draft 2007 budget already incorporated the budget allocation to 
support a new subsidy system that was approved by Congress 
Second
,
although the new subsidy system is based 
on adequate budget allocation, the budget is not the instrument whereby the program characteristics are set. Hence 
it will not reflect the necessary changes in the program rules that improve the system’s equity and progressivity. 
The new wording of the trigger maintains the requirement of a budget allocation for a new subsidy system, 
linking the main characteristics to the program’s operational rules, which are the mechanisms whereby the main 
features of eligibility criteria and subsidy amounts are set.  
 
7. 
The new administration sets as a main priority to improve housing conditions for the lower-income 
population by expanding access to housing finance through a new subsidy program
.
The National Development 
Plan sets the goal of 6 million loans for housing acquisition and improvement during 2007–2012. To this end, 
GoM recognized the need to expand access to housing finance for the population earning 5MW or less, 
emphasizing those not served by the national housing funds. With this in mind, the Government launched a new 
credit-linked subsidy program with a drastically expanded budget allocation of USD380 million for 2007.
5
The 
new 
Programa de Esquema de Financiamiento y Subsidio a la Vivienda
,
or 
Casa Ayuda,
 
program provides the 
following
6
:
4
The o
riginal wording of the key prior action was: “Government has designed – as reflected in the approved 2008 budget – a unified subsidy system that: (a) 
improves equity, progressivity, and increases beneficiary contributions across programs;  (b) does not allow joining subsidies from a variety of federal 
programs (“double dipping”) thereby resulting in a total amount of subvention per-unit that exceeds agreed-upon ceilings; (c) adjusts state and municipal 
contribution requirements to federal subsidy programs based on the poverty level in the jurisdiction; d) establishes consistent rules for beneficiary selection, 
for linking receipt of the subsidy to household savings, and for the subsidy amount; and e) increases portability of subsidies. 
5
The 2005 and 2006 budget allocations for the existing credit-linked subsdiy program - PROSAVI were just below M$100 million, and even during the peak 
periods the budget was never higher than M$200 million. 
6
See http://www.shf.gob.mx/programas_de_shf/PROGRAMASUBSIDIO.html for the program rules.  
Page  4
4
·
Up-front subsidy directly to the beneficiaries 
·
Credit guarantee to the financial intermediary for the acquisition of a housing unit or serviced lot 
·
Financing of housing improvements or self-construction for: 
 
a) 
Population with individual incomes below 4MW 
b) 
Non-insured persons with household incomes below 5MW 
c) 
Members from the national housing funds with individual incomes below 2.6MW 
d) 
Beneficiaries with access to mortgages if household incomes below 4 MW. 
 
The operational rules published by CONAVI describe the specific objectives of 
Casa Ayuda
:
·
Increase access to (mortgage- and housing micro) credit and co-financing to lower-income population  
·
Support capacity of low-income households to build up housing equity 
·
Increase joint responsibility of beneficiaries for their housing conditions by opening up ways for them to 
use their accumulated wealth or savings, 
·
Stimulate mobility in the new and used housing market  
·
Improve quality of life of the people by enhancing housing conditions and urban environment 
·
Promote production of social housing, and self-construction/production of housing in sustainable urban 
and rural conditions.  
 
8. 
As expected, INFONAVIT brought the program on line fast. 
It could qualify a larger proportion of its 
below 2.6MW individual/4MW household members with the combination of up-front subsidy and interest rate 
subsidy. It already had a pipeline of developer projects for its “economic house. Through June 2007, the housing 
fund disbursed more than 20,000 subsidies (of which 8,000 had 
already
 been approved in 2006 as part of the 
credit-linked subsidy program operated by FONHAPO).  
 
9. 
The response of the private mortgage sector has been slower
.
It disbursed just over 250 subsidies through 
June 2007, including loans under the 
cofinanciamento
 arrangement with INFONAVIT. Most private lenders did 
not have a pipeline of low-income housing developments that they could tap. During the last few years, the old 
PROSAVI subsidy program had seen sharply reduced allocations, and lenders had moved to other market 
segments. Additionally, several lenders had experienced higher defaults on the portfolio of first-time credit users 
and were cautious to expand their exposure to this market segment. More important, however, some major 
SOFOLS voiced concerns about program parameters (for example, relative to INFONAVIT’s potential for market 
expansion under the program) and program profitability. They had this response despite several concessions on 
pricing of SHF financial products available to the private lenders, including its mortgage insurance, liquidity 
lending, and financial guarantees. 
 
10. 
Additional concerns are the lack of incentives for the development of formal lower-cost housing solutions 
for INFONAVIT
 and hence the other developers, and the inequity between formal and informal sector low-income 
workers under the program. Last, the microcredit for the housing sector is new and still has to develop the systems 
for responsible subsidy allocation linked to home-improvement credit. In August 2007, CONAVI and SHF 
revisited and fine-tuned the 
Casa Ayuda
 program to balance the different demands for program change by private 
and non-private lenders.  
 
11. 
The program rules of the non-credit-linked subsidy program
––Tu Casa––have been revised to better 
align with the Casa Ayuda scheme and to gradually incorporate the lessons learned from the impact evaluation
.
SEDESOL, through FONHAPO will continue to implement the non-credit-linked subsidy programs, 
Tu Casa 
and 
Vivienda Rural,
 with local governments. SEDESOL and FONHAPO modified the operational rules for the 
Tu 
Casa 
program to better align with the new 
Casa Ayuda
 program. The main modifications include (a) lowering the 
maximum house value eligible to be supported by the program, which now is intended as progressive housing to 
MXP 100,000
7
and (b) increasing the allocated subsidies for improvement to 70 percent from their average of 
7
Previously housing units with a selling price of MXP 180,000 were eligible for subsidy under the program. 
Page  5
5
previous years of 30 percent. The latter is a direct response to the mixed results obtained from the impact 
evaluation by the Bank of the finished housing and the positive impact on the home improvement modalities. 
 
12. 
An important evaluation of the subsidy system is being prepared with particular focus on implementation 
of subsidy policy at local level and should serve as the first evaluation of the reforms to the subsidy system
.
An 
additional subsidy evaluation to the one developed in 2005 is being conducted by a consultant contracted by 
CONAVI. This study will include an analysis of the 
Casa Ayuda
 program launched this year with a strong 
emphasis on the implementation issues at local level. 
P
OLICY 
A
REA 
3: H
OUSING 
F
INANCE 
 
Key prior actions for HUDPL III  
 
13. 
Since mid-2006, SHF has been working using different approaches with a number of different 
intermediaries, 
such as Entidades de Ahorro y Crédito Popular (EACPs such as Sociedades Financieras 
Populares, or SOFIPOS) and Cajas Populares. The institutional market for housing microfinance (HMF) can be 
considered to include the Banca Popular (BP) institutions, that is, the Cajas and the deposit-taking MFIs, or 
SOFIPOs. Over the past few years, the HMF sector in Mexico has seen a trend of migrating away from offering a 
single product to offering multiple products. The market leaders (such as Credito y Casa or Finpatria) are all 
developing products for home improvement with greater amounts and lower rates than traditional microfinance 
products. In addition, selected SOFOLs
 
that are expanding their mortgage lending (or consumer SOFOLs that are 
entering mortgage lending) down-market relative to their current target clientele also show interest in these 
products. Compartamos, a microfinance bank, is testing an HMF product. A recent survey of 112 BP entities 
found that approximately one-third offered some type of housing product. Two-thirds of all housing loans had 
terms between 36 and 60 months, and the average annual interest rate was 23 percent.
8
14. 
From the perspective of SHF’s product line, the HMF financial intermediaries can be divided in two 
groups: 
 
a) 
Those that offer products of short-term consumption loans, such as 
SOFIPOS 
and 
SOFOLS
.
This group is 
interested in (i) funds, (ii) portfolio guarantees for microcredit, (iii) subsidies, and (iv) technical 
assistance. 
 
b) 
Those that are focused primarily on long-term capacity building of their members and provide credit for a 
maximum of 5 years. Examples are 
Cajas Populares 
and SCAPS (
Sociedades Cooperativas de Ahorro y 
Préstamo
). This group is interested in (i) long-term funds, (ii) technical assistance for product 
development, and (iii) subsidies for home acquisition. 
 
15. 
SHF Housing Microfinance Products:
 SHF has four distinct product lines either under implementation or 
under development: 
 
a) 
Short-term funds
:
The standard product is for up to 24 months. The main challenge is the verification of 
the final-use of funds. 
 
b) 
Long-term funds
:
Cajas Populares are interested in long-term funds but require assistance in product 
development. Additionally, small cajas would find it difficult to come up with their 20 percent share of 
the credits (under the scheme of shared risks).  
 
c) 
Portfolio guarantee for housing microfinance
:
SHF is working with the Bank (under a fee-for-service 
contract) to set up a portfolio guarantee scheme for HMF. These models are fairly popular in 
microfinance and small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) financing for two reasons. They reduce the 
8
BANSEFI, Strategic Planning. Unpublished, 2007.  On the (ultimate) demand side, a survey of just over 2,000 households/clients of the BP sector 
indicated that approximately 17% of the households had applied for some type of housing loan (building, expansion, remodeling).  Of these applicants, a 
large majority had applied to BP institutions, while only about 5% had submitted applications to banks or SOFOLs. 
Page  6
6
administrative costs of the guarantee mechanism, and induce expansion of portfolios that otherwise would 
be limited by access to funding or perceived risk in new market segments. The main feature of portfolio 
guarantee models is that they reduce the participation of the guarantor in the loan approval process and 
defer to the lender the choice of individual loans to include in the portfolio to be guaranteed. 
 
d) 
Card-based payment platform.
 A card-based platform is a technology-driven system that connects 
borrowers who wish to use funds obtained for home improvement and extension to suppliers of the 
necessary building materials. This platform has the potential to help scale up the provision of housing 
microfinance in Mexico. The platform also could sustainably reduce the interest rates charged on housing 
microloans through reducing certain costs and by standardizing key elements of the current micro or 
consumer lending process. 
P
OLICY 
A
REA 
4: U
RBAN 
P
ROPERTY 
R
EGISTRIES AND 
R
IGHTS
 
Key prior actions for HUDPL III  
 
16. 
CONAVI continues the expansion of the public registries modernization program, thus meeting the key 
prior action agreed in the policy matrix
.
Overall, 19 states covering 71 percent of the urban population have 
signed modernization agreements with CONAVI. CONAVI expects to sign soon with the State of Jalisco, one of 
the most urbanized in the country, thereby increasing the coverage to 80 percent.
9
17. 
The new administration fully supports the advances made through the Modernization Program operated 
by CONAVI and SHF, and has decided to expand the efforts to incorporate cadastre and rural registries
.
To 
achieve the important objective put forward in the National Development Plan to bring “certainty to property 
rights through the homologation of public registries,” in March 2007, the new administration launched the a new 
program. It is called 
Lineamientos para la aplicacion del Programa de Modernizacion de Registros Publicos 
2007
 and has an allocated budget of US$40 million. This program builds on the model developed by CONAVI 
and SHF and supported by the DPL series as the standard institutional arrangements that property registries 
should attain. The new program assigns federal funds to co-finance modernization plans and gives the leading role 
to the Secretaría de Gobernación and technical participation of CONAVI and SHF. Access to federal funds 
provides the necessary incentives to the states as well as necessary technical support. At the same time, it fosters 
the adoption of internationally recognized good practices for adequate property registries’ institutional 
organization and service delivery. 
 
18. 
To apply for the funds, states must present a “Plan for Registry Modernization.” These  plans are being 
prepared by some states with SHF support. The plans should contain the main activities to align the state’s 
property registry to the principles established in the model. The plans should include a detailed description of 
actions, activities, investments, and costs required in each registry to implement the model. As the program has 
recently begun, a detailed description of the elements that the modernization plans should include needs to be 
developed. The Bank has provided technical advice to the Government for this purpose. It is expected that the 
plans will meet sound technical standards as the program is developed.
 
P
OLICY 
A
REA 
6: L
OW
-
AND 
M
ODERATE
-I
NCOME 
L
AND 
D
EVELOPMENT
 
Triggers and benchmarks for HUDPL III 
 
19. 
The original wording of the trigger has been redrafted to highlight the importance of the implementation 
of pilot schemes for land development relative to the preparation of an action plan.
10
.
The original text of the 
agreed prior action incorporates the completion of a quantitative study and the preparation of an action plan, 
9
The States are: Sonora, Baja California, Colima, Michoacan, Nuevo Leon, San Luis Potosi, Tamaulipas, Distrito Federal, Guanajuato, Estado de Mexico, 
Sinaloa, Morelos, Quintanta Roo, Hidalgo, Zacatecas, Coahuila, Chiapas, Durango y Guerrero. 
10
 The original wording of the key prior action was: “Government has completed a quantitative cost-benefit analysis of land development and has developed 
and action plan that facilitates low-and moderate income residential land development. The plan incorporates a pilot program that facilitates low-and 
moderate income land development” 
Page  7
7
which was to include a pilot program for the low-and moderate income land development. The new wording 
emphasizes the importance of actual implementation of a pilot scheme rather than merely the preparation of an 
action plan that describes it. This new wording also reflects better the progress achieved by SHF (in coordination 
with local governments, SEDESOL and the private sector) in the three pilot schemes already under 
implementation.
 
20. 
The Government will have completed by the end of October 2007 an important study on costs and benefits 
analysis of land development.
 A first draft of the study including results and recommendations is currently being 
revised by SEDESOL. The last week of September SEDESOL will carry out a workshop to discuss key findings 
that can help on the definition of the Urban Development and Territorial Planning Sector Program 2007-
2012.Given the scope of the study it is likely that several iterations and discussions of the document will continue 
after October.
 
In parallel, SEDESOL will prepare a pilot land diagnostic, assessment, and action plan in the city 
of Mexicali, Baja California. The plan will have the dual purpose to pilot this scheme in the city and to prepare a 
systematic operational guide to land assessment that will be applied in additional cities. The main objectives of 
this operational guide are to provide local governments a practical tool to prepare land assessments in their 
respective cities and to increase the information on land demand and supply in the middle and large cities. 
Accomplishing these objectives will enable a more effective launch, at a later stage, of the policy instruments 
recommended by the land study being prepared. 
 
21. 
SHF is leading the implementation of four pilot projects to develop land for affordable housing in a 
sustainable urban environment
.
SHF is coordinating 
efforts
 from state and municipal governments, national 
development banks, private banking institutions, and other federal government agencies to develop four pilot 
macro-lotes
 projects i
n
the States of Michoacán, San Luis Potosí, Yucatán, and Quintana Roo. The specific 
objectives of the pilots are to (i) develop suitable land for housing in a sustainable environment, (ii) strengthen the 
local government capacity to strategically plan the areas of city growth, and (iii) develop a sustainable financing 
structure for land development for low-income housing. The projects incorporate five innovations: 
 
a)  A partial development plan for the area has been prepared with external technical assistance and 
validation from SEDESOL to guarantee that the urban environment is sustainable. 
 
b) 
The partial development plan will be subject to public consultation, approved by the State Congress, and 
published in the state’s official gazette with a transparent modification process. 
 
c) The 
macro-lotes
 include mixed land-use for housing (residential, middle, and low-income), commercial, 
and service uses. In effect, the 
macro-lotes
 are implementing a cross-subsidy between the higher-income 
land uses to the lower-income uses, making affordable housing feasible sustainable. 
 
d)  At least 60 percent of the housing built in the 
macro-lote
 must be low-income housing (MXP 180,000–
225,000). 
 
e)  The operational vehicle (a trust fund in all cases) integrated by public and private stakeholders is 
responsible to implement the project under a strict timing schedule to minimize speculation. 
 
22. 
The pilot projects are in different stages of implementation
.
Before expanding to additional states, SHF 
wants to systematize best practice within the projects and with the other participating agencies. The response so 
far from local governments has been very positive since they see this as an opportunity to learn (by doing) to use 
their assets in a strategic manner. 
 
Environmental Aspects of the Program 
 
23. 
Policy reforms supported by the program will have significant environmental benefits
.
Informal 
settlements suffer from numerous environmental and social problems due to lack of basic services
.
The proposed 
loan will support policies such as promoting slum upgrading; pursuing formal housing development in suitable, 
well-selected and well-designed areas; and streamlining environmental considerations in housing policies. These 
Page  8
8
policies will improve infrastructure provision, access to green spaces, public transportation, and social services. 
They also will reduce vulnerability to natural disasters as well as energy and water consumption. According to the 
analytical work completed to date, none of the reforms is expected to have significant negative environmental or 
social impacts. Some localized negative environmental impacts are possible from eventual implementation of 
programs supported by the loan, such as inconveniences due to construction activities or resettlement from risk-
prone areas. As in many other Bank projects, these impacts will be managed through existing institutions and 
regulations. 
 
24. 
The GoM is preparing a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the housing sector to include 
environmental considerations in the federal housing policies
.
In January 2007, CONAVI started to conduct a SEA 
that would serve as a master plan to include environmental considerations in its policies and programs in 
coordination with SENER, CNA, IMTA, and SEMARNAT. In addition, CONAVI announced that it will finance 
the SEA and that the contributions of SENER, CNA, IMTA, and SEMARNAT will be requested. CONAVI 
prepared the terms of reference for the SEA and for five environment-related studies. They will be (i) Building 
Code, (ii) monitoring houses that use environmentally friendly technologies, (iii) cost-benefit analyses of energy- 
and water-saving technologies, (iv) guidelines to certify environmentally friendly building materials and energy- 
and water-saving technologies, and (v) a program to disseminate the benefits of sustainable housing. 
SEMARNAT and the other organizations complemented the terms of reference. 
 
25. 
 The SEA calls for 
regional
 diagnoses and recommendations with regard to: 
 
·
Zoning and land use (including considerations on water availability, air quality, and green areas) 
·
Technologies (building materials and systems) 
·
Demography  
·
Financing (innovative instruments to finance environmentally friendly houses) 
·
Utilities and public services (transport, access, energy use, water use, drainage, solid waste disposal) 
·
Standards (such as construction) 
 
26. 
It is expected that the final version of the SEA will be ready by February 2008 and the final document 
submitted in May 2008. A quality enhancement committee is being created to monitor and supervise the SEA 
activities.
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
The proposed operation is expected to have significantly positive poverty and social impacts. HUDPL III 
benefited from a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA). Given the scope of the proposed reform, this PSIA 
focused on affordable housing. It included, among others things, (i) a review of existing analytical work (Bank 
and non-bank assessments); (ii) a review of secondary data (ENIGH) and (iii) an institutional analysis of 
FONHAPO, the key operating agent for pro-poor housing subsidy policy. This institutional analysis also included 
interviews with multiple stakeholders, including OREVIs and municipios that execute FONHAPO’s subsidy 
program, Tu Casa. A quantitative analysis of subsidies is about to be completed.  
 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Starting 2005 a set of monitoring indicators to accompany the DPL series was agreed between the Bank and the 
three implementing agencies to be delivered quarterly. In the case of the subsidy component, the indicators 
continue to be prepared and discussed by the subsidy working group which meets periodically.  
Table 1
above 
shows selected key housing and urban indicators. In mid-2006 CONAVI suggested delivering the indicators on a 
semi-annual basis given that changes, particularly in the subsidy sector, tend to occur in the medium rather than 
the short term. As part of the discussions with the GoM to prepare the proposed third operation, the monitoring 
indicators will be revised to incorporate the new housing and urban subsidy programs and to ensure consistency 
and timely delivery of the information. 
 
Page  9
9
Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100.00 
 
Contact point: 
 
Abhas Jha, 
Senior Infrastructure Specialist 
The World Bank, 
1818 H Street NW, 
Washington DC 
Tel: 202-458-1050 
Email: ajha@worldbank.org 
 
