Page  1
1
AB 3193 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT 
(CONCEPT STAGE) 
 
Project Name 
Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction DPL-III 
Region 
Latin America and  the Caribbean 
Sector 
Other social services; Housing finance and real state markets; Central 
Government Administration; Subnational Government Administration; 
Law and Justice
 
Project ID 
P101342 
Borrower(s) 
United Mexican States 
Implementing Agency 
Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF)
 
Date PID Prepared 
June 19, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 18, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 8, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Mexico housing and urban poverty reduction program continues to be robust with strong ownership 
from the Government of Mexico. As 
Table 1
below shows the number of housing subsidies continue to 
increase while being better targeted to the poor (<3 MW segment) and (for the first time in Mexico) 
incentivizing used housing. The housing microfinance pilot has made steady progress with the number 
of microfinance loans increasing. The number of plots allocated to beneficiaries of the program Habitat 
for low-income housing has also increased. Based on the strong progress, i
t
is the team’s assessment that 
the HUDPL program is substantially on track and this note proposes approval of HUDPL-III in 
November 2007. 
 
Table 1: Selected monitoring indicators  
Indicator 2004 
2005 
2006 
Total number of housing solutions 
738,600 
768,532 
952,763 
Total number of subsidies  
302,173 
445,952 
616,073 
Total amount of subsidies to households earning < 
3MW 
 /
Total amount of subsidies 
0.07 0.33 
0.36 
Total number of HMF loans 
n.a. 
45 
1,336 
Financial sustainability (SHF)* 
 
1.01 
1.04 
Number of slums that have prepared participatory 
plans under Habitat 
n.a. 0 
75 
Number of serviced lots that have been allocated to < 
5MW beneficiaries under Habitat 
0
2,900
3,600 
Number of cities that have prepared Risk Atlases  
2 
11 
56 
*
Defined as:  Total internally generated income / ( total expenses + imputed cost of capital) 
 
Source: CONAVI, SHF and SEDESOL 
 
Page  2
2
2. Proposed 
Objective(s)
 
The Calderon administration has maintained the previous government’s commitment to address 
Mexico’s critical housing and urban development needs
.
The National Development Plan 2007-2012
1
aims to increase access to housing for the poorest segments of the population in an orderly, rational and 
sustainable context.  The program has emerged from the consultations held by the Federal Government 
in various regional forums
2
held between January and March 2007. It has seven goals: 
 
·
Strengthen tenure security through the standardization of property registries, municipal cadastres 
and rural registries as well as the mandatory registry of properties.  
·
Increase the coverage and variety of housing finance options available.  
·
Increase the supply of adequate land for housing construction and economic development.  
·
Re-use of the existing urban infrastructure,  
·
Consolidation of the National Housing System.  
·
Generate a dynamic used housing market and assist the development of an efficient rental market  
·
Promote housing improvement and create conditions to foster progressive housing and social 
housing production through alternative financial products and support for the lower-income 
population.  
 
3. Preliminary 
Description 
 
The proposed Third Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction Development Policy Loan 
(HUDPL-III) will support a number of the new administration’s priorities and initiatives in the housing 
and construction sector. It consolidates and deepens the reforms undertaken under the first and second 
loans (HUSAL and HUDPL-II) which were approved in April 2004 and November 2005 respectively. 
 
Table 1 below gives the team’s assessment of the status of individual triggers for HUDPL-III. 
 
Table 1: Status of Proposed Key Prior Actions for HUDPL III 
 
Policy area 
Key prior actions 
Status as of 
August 9, 2007 
Macroeconomic 
framework 
Maintenance of sound macroeconomic 
framework consistent with policy 
objectives and programs described in 
the Letter of Development Policy.  
Met 
Housing subsidies 
Government has designed – as reflected 
in the approved 2008 budget – a unified 
subsidy system that: (a) improves equity 
across programs; (b) prevents joining 
subsidies from multiple federal 
programs (“double dipping”) which 
Substantially complete with 
improvements made in PROSAVI. Key 
study that will examine constraints on 
local counterpart funding about to be 
contracted and preliminary results 
should be available by mid-July. Details 
1
The National Development Plan 2007-2012 may be seen at 
http://pnd.presidencia.gob.mx/index.html
.
The section on housing and construction may be 
seen at 
http://pnd.calderon.presidencia.gob.mx/pdf/Eje2_Economia_Competitiva_y_Generadora_de_Empleos/2_13_Construccion_y_Vivienda.pdf
2
CONAFOVI, 2001, 
Programa Sectorial de Vivienda 2001-2006
,
available at http://www.conafovi.gob.mx/secciones/banner/programa 
percent20sectorial/index.htm. 
Page  3
3
Policy area 
Key prior actions 
Status as of 
August 9, 2007 
results in a total subsidy per-unit that 
exceeds agreed-upon ceilings; (c) 
adjusts state and municipal contribution 
requirements to federal subsidy 
programs based on the poverty level in 
the jurisdiction; d) establishes consistent 
rules for beneficiary selection, for 
linking receipt of the subsidy to 
household savings, and for the subsidy 
amount by income group and region; 
and e) increases portability of subsidies. 
are provided below. 
 
Housing finance 
SHF mainstreams financing of home 
improvement, addition and purchase of 
existing housing, in accordance with 
standards agreed between the GOM and 
the World Bank. 
Met 
Urban property 
registries and 
rights 
The property registry program is 
expanded to cover at least 18 states 
which cover at least 80 percent of the 
urban population (potential users). 
Will be met by August 2007 
Low- and 
moderate-income 
land development 
Government has completed a 
quantitative cost/benefit analysis of land 
development and has developed an 
action plan that facilitates low- and 
moderate-income residential land 
development incorporating a pilot 
program that facilitates low- and 
moderate-income land development. 
The study and pilots are about to be 
started and preliminary results should 
be available by mid-July. 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The individual policy areas of the Program for which there were triggers within HUDPL-III are 
discussed in detail below.  
 
Policy Area 1: Housing Subsidies 
 
The proposed HUDPL III will support further reform in the housing subsidy system through the creation 
of a new subsidy program linked to credit and the gradual modification of the Tu Casa program to align 
with the new scheme. In January 2007 CONAVI launched a new subsidy program called 
Programa de 
Esquemas de Financiamiento y Subsidio Federal para Viviend
a
with a budget allocation of MXP 3.8 
billion
3
that replaces the old PROSAVI program. The program targets populations earning between 2 
3
1
US$=10.92 MXP 
Page  4
4
and 5 minimum wages
4
and has been designed to foster private sector financing for households that are 
traditionally not being served by the financial sector by providing up/front grants and guarantees to 
increase the affordability of the housing unit (with an approximate house value of US$ 17,000). 
CONAVI estimates allocation of around 120,000 subsidies in 2007 via several financial intermediaries. 
To avoid duplication, the operational rules of the 
Tu Casa
 program have been adjusted to finance 
housing units of a lower value (up to US$ 13,000)  than the units supported by the 
Programa de 
Esquemas de Financiamiento y Subsidio Federal para Vivienda 
 
In order to increase the coherence and equity of the housing finance system and avoid duplication in 
functions and target population, the GoM has revised the operational rules of the second largest federal 
subsidy program: Tu Casa. With a budget allocation of MXP 2.5 billion  the Tu Casa program is now 
the second largest federal subsidy program financing housing acquisition and improvement targeting 
populations earning between 1 and 3 minimum wages. Until December 2006, it supported acquisition of 
housing units with a maximum value of US$ 17,000, which could link to a loan or subsidy from local 
governments plus beneficiary savings. In order to avoid duplication with the new 
Programa de 
Esquemas de Financiamiento y Subsidio Federal para Viviend
a
program, the 2007 Tu Casa rules 
have been revised.  The maximum house value has been reduced to US$ 13,000, and the program can no 
longer be linked to a loan. The subsidy is supported by beneficiary savings and local government 
contribution in the form of a subsidy. By authorizing a housing solution of a lower value, the program - 
while keeping the amount of the grant unchanged (US$ 3,450) - is effectively increasing the percentage 
of the house value subsidized for those earning below 3 MW, while making households eligible for a 
loan beneficiaries of the 
Programa de Esquemas de Financiamiento y Subsidio Federal para 
Vivienda 
program instead. Until now, the housing acquisition component of the program has had mixed 
results; with local governments struggling to provide the local contribution in form of a  serviced lot, 
which translated into developments that are not suitably located in terms of access to services and 
infrastructure. The GoM is aware of these shortcomings and envisages the Tu Casa program supporting 
in the medium term housing improvements for the poorest. A good example of this is the Tu Casa 
Mejoramos program that is the window under Tu Casa that finances home improvements for the poorest 
and the very successful program Piso Firme for which impact evaluations by the Bank show positive 
results
5
Direct lending by FONHAPO has been phased out
.
In the past FONHAPO acted as the primary 
Government institution providing funds for low-income housing, with a very poor track record. Recent 
estimates suggest a delinquency level of US$ 6 billion. 
Moreover, FONHAPO’s below-market rate 
loans were inconsistent with efforts undertaken by SHF to establish a market-based housing finance 
system. As part of the GoM efforts to increase coherence of the housing finance system, FONHAPO’s 
role as a lending institution has been revised.  A new mandate for FONHAPO will be launched in the 
coming months and specify that FONHAPO will act solely as the operating arm of the upfront subsidy 
program Tu Casa.   
 
Policy Area 2: Housing Finance  
4
1
minimum wage in Mexico (From January 1, 2007) is on average about US$ 4.42/day. See 
http://www.sat.gob.mx/sitio_internet/asistencia_contribuyente/informacion_frecuente/salarios_minimos/
5
Details of the evaluation can be seen in the World Bank working pap
er entitled “Housing, Health and Happiness” by 
Titiunik, Rocio;Martinez, Sebastian;Gertler, Paul J.;Galiano, Sebastian;Cattaneo, Matias D.; 
http://imagebank.worldbank.org/servlet/WDSContentServer/IW3P/IB/2007/04/19/000016406_20070419123430/Rendered/P
DF/wps4214. 
pdf   
Page  5
5
Under HUDPL III SHF will continue to reach out to credit unions and small SOFOLES to expand 
housing micro-finance. As part of its efforts to mainstream microfinance for home purchases and 
improvements, SHF has taken steps to include one or two credit unions in its initial pilot program which 
is considered to be essential to significantly expand market coverage. By October 2006 SHF had 
financed 1,350 loans with a total value of US$ 800,000 through three main financial intermediaries 
(average loan of US$ 620) and intends to expand this effort signing new agreements with new 
intermediaries with plans to have nine more by December 2007. 
 
Policy Area 3: Urban Property Registries and Rights 
HUDPL III will support property registry modernization agreements with at least 18 states covering 
around 80% of the urban population. Despite a budget cut in 2006, CONAVI continued its efforts to 
expand the property registries modernization program and by January 2007 ten States had signed 
modernization agreements. The new administration has incorporated tenure security as a key item of the 
housing strategy and in March 2007 launched the 
new “Lineamientos para la Aplicación del Programa 
de Modernización de Registros Públicos 2007”
6
with a budget of US$ 42 million and the expanded 
objective to unify the property, agrarian and commercial registries to form a “Registro Unico”. This new 
scheme will be led by the Secretariat of the Interior (Secretaria de Gobernación) and will allocate public 
funds to support the program, and establish the preparation of plans for registry modernization as the 
main precondition for the States to apply for the funds. To support the implementation of the new 
policy, the Bank will work jointly with the GoM to (i) give the plans the required elements to become an 
effective tool for the implementation of the framework and to improve the methodologies used by 
CONAVI, (ii) provide financial support for registries modernization, and (iii) to improve the 
modernization plans under preparation by SHF In addition SHF and CONAVI have been working on the 
methodology and measurement of base line data to track the modernization progress and needs of each 
State. To date, 21 States have completed the base line data methodology. Given the allocated budget and 
importance of the modernization program for the new administration, CONAVI is confident that the 
agreed trigger of 18 States covering at least 80% of the population will be met by September 2007. 
 
Policy Area 4: Low- and Moderate-Income Land Development 
 
Under the proposed HUDPL III an analysis will be conducted of the costs and benefits of land 
development for low-income households and a pilot scheme will be undertaken to prepare a systematic 
guide for local governments on land issues. SEDESOL has been willing to enlarge the menu of land 
policy instruments through Hábitat or other mechanisms, and the policy matrix for the second loan 
included the completion of a cost-benefit analysis of different modes of land development as well as the 
design of an action plan to implement selected alternatives. Due to several delays the analysis will be 
completed by September 2007. The aim of the study is to obtain and analyze data on the price 
determinants of land destined for formal and informal settlements. Understanding the relative 
importance of each of the legal, economic and spatial variables over the price of land will help 
understand the main constraints that drive the prices of land to higher levels making it unaffordable for 
low-income housing. Once the diagnosis and analysis are presented, the study will recommend a set of 
policy actions and instruments (i.e. subsidies, regulatory reforms) to increase the supply of land for low-
income housing, The methodology for analysis incorporates economic, legal and spatial analysis to be 
conducted in eight selected cities throughout the country. Cities were selected considering size, 
6
See 
http://www.ordenjuridico.gob.mx/Federal/PE/APF/APC/SEGOB/Lineamientos/2007/06032007(1).pdf
for the official 
government notification and description of the program.  
Page  6
6
population growth, percentage of poor population, barriers to city growth, and change in land uses in the 
last 20 years
7
.
In parallel SEDESOL will prepare a pilot land diagnostic, assessment and action plan in the city of 
Mexicali, Baja California with the dual purpose to pilot this scheme in the city and to prepare a 
systematic operational guide to land assessment that will be further applied in other cities. The main 
objectives of this operational guide are to provide local governments a practical tool to prepare a land 
assessment in their respective cities and to increase the information on land demand and supply in the 
middle and large cities in order to launch more effectively - in a later stage - the policy instruments 
recommended from the land study being prepared. 
 
Environmental Aspects of the Program 
 
Policy reforms supported by the program will have significant environmental benefits
.
Informal 
settlements suffer from numerous environmental and social problems due to lack of basic services. 
Policies supported by the proposed loan
—such as promoting slum upgrading;  formal housing 
development in suitable, well-selected and designed areas; and streamlining environmental 
considerations into housing policies—will improve infrastructure provision, access to green spaces, 
public transportation, and social services, while reducing vulnerability to natural disasters as well as 
energy and water consumption. According to the analytical work completed to date, none of the reforms 
is expected to have significant negative environmental or social impacts. Some localized negative 
environmental impacts are possible from eventual implementation of programs supported by the loan, 
such as inconveniences due to construction activities or resettlement from risk-prone areas. As in many 
other Bank projects, these impacts will be managed through existing institutions and regulations. 
 
The GoM is preparing a Strategic Environmental Assessment of the housing sector to include 
environmental considerations in the federal housing policies. In January 2007 CONAVI started the 
process of conducting a strategic environmental assessment (SEA) that would serve as a master plan to 
include environmental considerations into its policies and programs in coordination with SENER, CNA, 
IMTA, and SEMARNAT. The SEA ToR call for regional diagnosis and recommendations with regard 
to: 
·
Zoning and land use (including considerations on water availability, air quality, and green areas) 
·
Technologies (building materials and systems) 
·
Demography  
·
Financing (innovative instruments to finance environmentally-friendly houses) 
·
Utilities and public services (transport, access, energy use, water use, drainage, solid waste 
disposal) 
·
Standards (e.g., construction) 
 
It is expected that the final version of the SEA should be ready by September 2007 with the launch of 
the Master Plan in January 2008.  
 
Poverty and Social Impacts 
 
This HUDPL III benefits from a PSIA that is currently underway. This PSIA particularly focused on 
affordable housing. It includes, among others:
 
-
i) a review of the existing analytical work (Bank and 
non-Bank assessments); ii) a review of secondary data (ENIGH- household survey, housing statistics 
7
Selected cities are Tijuana, Ciudad Juarez, Queretaro, Xalapa, Durango, Colima, Campeche y Los Cabos. 
Page  7
7
from SHF); iii) an institutional analysis of the key operating agent for pro-poor housing subsidy policy, 
FONHAPO- which also included interviews with OREVIs-the State level housing agencies which 
execute FONHAPO subsidy program TU CASA; and iv) quantitative analysis of subsidies. While full 
results will be available by early July 2007. 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
Starting 2005 a set of monitoring indicators to accompany the DPL series was agreed between the Bank 
and the three implementing agencies to be delivered quarterly. In the case of the subsidy component, the 
indicators continue to be prepared and discussed by the subsidy working group which meets 
periodically.  
Table 1
above shows selected key housing and urban indicators. In mid-2006 CONAVI 
suggested delivering the indicators on a semi-annual basis given that changes, particularly in the subsidy 
sector, tend to occur in the medium rather than the short term. As part of the discussions with the GoM 
to prepare the proposed third operation, the monitoring indicators will be revised to incorporate the new 
housing and urban subsidy programs and to ensure consistency and timely delivery of the information. 
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
100.00 
 
6. Contact 
point: 
 
Abhas Jha, 
Senior Infrastructure Specialist 
The World Bank, 
1818 H Street NW, 
Washington DC
 
Tel: 202-458-1050 
Email: ajha@worldbank.org 
 
