                                                                                            97305
Armenia: Modernizing Health Care                                               September 15, 2010




 HEALTH CARE

 From Rags to Riches: Armenia’s Health Care is Modernizing




Overview
The Health System Modernization (HSM) Project has helped increase the geographical and
financial access of Armenia’s most vulnerable population to quality basic health services
through infrastructure development, provision of modern equipment to health facilities in rural
areas, and the upgrading of Primary Health Care (PHC) service providers’ knowledge and
skills. About 80% of the country’s population is now covered by retrained family medicine
providers. Turning the principal hospital networks in the country’s regions into a high quality
health care providers network, accompanied by a development of the PHC infrastructure in
rural areas, will eventually reorient regional patient flows from the capital city of Yerevan to
local health facilities.


Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
During the last two decades, Armenia faced
enormous economic difficulties and crisis in
social spheres, including the health care system.
The sharp decrease in state allocations to the
health sector, high out-of-pocket payments,
dilapidated infrastructure, lack of modern
diagnostic equipment, and low motivation of the
medical staff to provide quality services created
impediments for the population to access quality
health services. Consequently, there was an
increase in mortality and morbidity rates,
especially among the adults. As a result, there is
a general concern that people with health
problems may postpone seeking care and use of health
services because of financial barriers. The main challenge in
                                                                    More Results
Armenia’s health system is to ensure better access of the
population to quality health services, reduce informal out-of-

                                                                    $41
pocket payments, reallocate the health budget towards the
more cost-effective PHC system, and rationalize health
service provision, including the optimization of excess

                                                                    million
capacity in the hospital sector.


Approach                                                            Total number of IDA
                                                                    contributions for the Health
The HSM Project has been designed to improve the                    System Modernization Project
                                                                    (APL1 and 2)
organization of the country’s health care system so as to
provide more accessible, quality and sustainable health care
services to the population, in particular, to the most

                                                                    $22
vulnerable, and to better manage public health threats. The
HSM Project continues to support the government efforts to:
(i) complete the family medicine-based PHC reform that was
launched in 1996; (ii) consolidate the hospital sector to
minimize waste of scarce resources and improve quality of
care; and (iii) strengthen the government’s capacity for
                                                                     million
                                                                     Represtents the higher IDA
effective stewardship in policy making.                              amount for APL2, out of which
                                                                     18.57 million has been
                                                                     channeled for hospital network
                                                                     optimization in Armenia’s eight
Results                                                              regions.

To date, the HSM Project has supported the following key
outcomes:

      About 1,182 physicians were re-trained as family
      physicians; 144 physicians are in the process of re-
                                                                     200
                                                                     The total number of Primary
      training; 1,306 nurses have been re-trained as family          Health Care facilities that have
      nurses; 133 nurses are in the process of re-training.          been provided with standard
                                                                     sets of medical equipment,
                                                                     supplies, furniture and IT
      The infrastructure of 70 PHC facilities located in rural       equipment.
      areas has been improved (26 new construction and 44
      renovations).

      A total of 200 PHC facilities have been provided with          MORE INFORMATION
      standard sets of medical equipment, supplies, furniture         Health System Modernization
      and information technology (IT) equipment.                      Project (APL1)

                                                                      Health System Modernization
      Three hospital mergers (“Yerevan State Medical                  Project (APL2)
      University,” “Surb Grigor Lusavorich,” and “Surb
      Astvatsamayr” Medical Center) have been provided a              Feature Story: Armenia's
                                                                      Healthcare is Modernizing
      modern biomedical and IT equipment.
                                                                      Feature story: “From rags to
      The Kotayk region Hrazdan Medical Center (MC)                   Riches.” New Medical Center
      (population of 105,300), Tavush region Ijevan MC                Changes the Face of Healthcare
      (population of 49,200) and Armavir region Armavir MC            in Armenia’s Kotayk Region
      (population of 121,500), Ararat region Ararat MC
      (population of 95,500) have been renovated and
      provided with modern medical equipment and                     PARTNERS
      furniture.                                                      Government of Armenia 

      Aragatsotn region Aparan MC (population of 22,400),             Yerevan State Medical
                                                                      University 
      Syunik region Goris MC (population of 44,700) and
      Gegharkunik region Gavar MC (population of 57,800)              Japan Policy and Human
      are currently under renovation.                                 Resources Development Fund
                                                                      (PHRD)
      About 726 managers of hospital facilities, including            USAID 
      108 top-level, 271 mid-level and 347 lower-level
                                                                      WHO 
      managers, have received management training
      courses developed by international consultants. As a
      result, 48 regional hospitals have trained key
      management staff.
                                                                  
      Health System Performance Assessment reports for
      2006 and 2008 were developed, published and distributed among stakeholders. The
      reports demonstrated the positive impact of the government’s health reforms on
      improving the quality of and access to health services for the population.

      National Health Account (NHA) reports for 2004-2008 were developed. NHA reports for
      2006 and 2008 were published and distributed among stakeholders. These analytical
      reports presented invaluable information on the sources and volumes of financial flows
      in the sector, and provided an opportunity for decision-makers to assess and revisit the
      results of the ongoing health reforms and make essential policy adjustments.
Toward the Future
Future plans of the government of Armenia are to: continue upgrading health facilities as
outlined in the optimization plans in all regions, continue and improve the quality of training of
family practice teams, carry out training of health professionals of secondary-tertiary specialty
areas, and continue activities that support institutional strengthening, such as an introduction of
performance–based payment of providers, and improved governance and regulatory
arrangements, which would make the project sustainable in the long run.
 


       We could have only dreamed of these conditions before. I am
    now very motivated to work. Patients are thrilled with the new
    conditions of the hospital … we have heating, hot water,
    refurbished and furnished wards, and a new state-of-the-art
    equipment and technology.
              — Lousvard Gevorgyan, 52, has worked as a janitor at
             Hrazdan Medical Center for 27 years. Almost every day
                she walks 45 minutes to her work from her village of
                       Jerarat. But she minds the distance less now.


 
