                                                                                                               99824




Modernizing Armenia's Healthcare
To update her medical skills, Doctor Teresa Petrosyan travels
16 kilometers to Argavand village to attend hands-on classes
in family medicine. Her teacher is certified family physician       Multimedia
Dr. Lena Gevorgyan, who is happy to share her experience.
She says that in her time, she, too, was well trained by
others.

Dr. Gevorgyan has been working with doctors in regional
Armenia to refresh their knowledge of family medicine and
teach them new techniques and new ways of interacting with
patients. It's like a master's degree course where family           Modernizing Armenia's Health Care
doctors learn how to best handle a wide variety of medical          (Video)
challenges, most likely alone in a walk-in clinic.

"In one year, we went to so many hospitals and departments;
we probably hadn't been to so many places during our whole
time as medical students," says Lena Gevorgyan, Argavand
family doctor. "We went to study and to implement locally
what we had learned."
                                                                    Photo Gallery
Each newly certified family physician treats 1,500 to 2,000
patients.                                                           Related Links

Retraining physicians to emphasize family medicine is a             Health System Modernization Project
fundamental part of the Armenian Government's strategy to           (APL2) in Support of the Second Phase
improve healthcare, and the World Bank is supporting this           of the Health Sector Reform Program
effort through the Health System Modernization Project. A           Health Systems Modernization Project
new approach that aimed to provide quality healthcare for
                                                                    Additional Financing for the 2nd Health
everyone was needed in the wake of the disruption of the
                                                                    System Modernization Project (APL2) in
post-Soviet transition era. Establishing good primary               Support of the 2nd Phase of the Health
healthcare was the first step.                                      Sector Reform

In her comfortable and newly equipped outpatient unit, Dr.          World Bank in Armenia
Gevorgyan now performs procedures for which she used to
send patients to a regional hospital or the capital.

"We used to send patients as far as 16 km to be treated at the regional polyclinic," she says. "Say, for
an electrocardiogram, which takes 3-4 minutes, they would spend their whole day waiting in front of the
doors of the Hoktemberyan polyclinic."

To qualify as family doctors, physicians at outpatient units are trained at the National Institute of Health
and State Medical University for one year. This training is mandatory under the directive of the Ministry
of Health, and receives support from the World Bank. So far, 1,200 family doctors and more than 1,300
family nurses have been trained.

In addition to training doctors and nurses, the project which is modernizing healthcare is expanding the
population's access to good primary healthcare. And it is building or modernizing dozens of outpatient
clinics around the country, and providing them with modern medical equipment.

                             Tairov district, home to almost 3,000 people, has a new clinic built under the
                             program. It is attracting five times more patients than when it was housed in the
                             old building. "We used to work in very bad physical conditions," says Dr. Karine
                             Hakobyan. "The building was in a horrible state: there were two rooms, no
                             flooring, we were at risk of breaking our legs when we walked; the ceiling
                             leaked. We would examine children, pregnant women, ill and healthy people—
                             all in the same room."

Karine Hakobyan, Doctor,  Now the clinic has a waiting room and separate exam rooms. It also has an
Tairov District Outpatient
Unit                      otoscope and an electrocardiogram, and the clinic's nurses can perform simple
                          blood tests on the spot. Dr. Hakobyan says the quality of healthcare she can
provide in her clinic has been raised significantly.

In Armenia, 800,000 patients have been treated in 145 improved outpatient clinics. However, 70
outpatient units around the country still need to be moved to new buildings.

As part of the second phase of the health reform, several specialized medical institutions in Armenia
were merged. Inherited from a previous era was a huge number of inefficient, overstaffed and
dilapidated hospitals with outdated technology and obsolete equipment. In particular, regional facilities
had not seen any renovation since their construction in the 1970's. They lacked efficient management to
provide high quality hospital services.

The government decided to optimize services by merging hospitals and polyclinics. As a result, there are
40% fewer empty hospital beds, and over 70,000 square meters less unused hospital and polyclinic
space. Services across the country are consolidated, physical conditions upgraded, modern medical
equipment provided, and modern management structures in place.

The capital is no longer the only place providing niche medical services. People do not need to travel
150 km to Yerevan for services that the regional medical centers are now providing. This means less
travel, better care, and faster test results using reliable equipment. Over half of the patients living outside
the capital prefer to receive care in their own regions.

"What is amazing is that people are willing to pay to undergo treatment. These are paid services; the
government does not cover these costs. The hospital provides everything except for meals," says Elmira
Yengibaryan, Head of Internal Medicine at Ijevan Medical Center, approvingly.

Income at the Ijevan Medical Center increased nine times after it was renovated, thanks to patients
willing to pay for their services. Other newly renovated medical centers have also seen large increases
in income thanks to fee for services and fewer empty beds.

Another benefit is that the small number of physicians with specialty training in the regions are now
providing a wide range of healthcare services with state-of the-art equipment. And they are concentrated
in centralized and renovated regional medical centers instead of being spread out across the provinces.

Residents of Armenia's southern regions are desperately waiting for similar reforms. Construction work
at Goris in the south of the country is going ahead with great speed. The main building of the hospital
has already been renovated. An auxiliary unit is being built next to it to house the reception, diagnostic
unit, surgical department, and maternity ward. Medical equipment and furniture is being delivered.

                             The Goris hospital is a familiar place to Yuri Hovsepyan, a carpenter. He was
                             operated on here in 1990. "My wife was treated here, my children were born
                             here, and I am also going to have a grandchild soon in this hospital. We are
                             building this for ourselves, for our children," he said.

                             The Goris medical center will reopen soon. Other renovated regional medical
                             centers are expected to open next year.

Yuri Hovsepyan,         "By strictly following the Government's long-term strategy on reforming the
construction worker fromhealth sector for 12 years, the healthcare system in Armenia was brought back
Goris
                        from a critical state of affairs," says Susanna Hayrapetyan, World Bank task
team leader for the Health System Modernization Project."But it is still early to consider it healthy. It is
necessary to improve the quality of service in the new hospitals, to eliminate the wide-spread out-of-
pocket payments, and to renovate or rebuild the other outpatient clinics and hospitals in the regions. It is
also necessary to completely modernize and retrain the emergency medicine system in the country. The
treatment and recovery of the system will continue, based on this prescription."
