                                                                                                      94114
Armenia: Quality and Affordable Health Care for All
                                                                                                      April 17, 2012
 




    Modernizing Health Care in Armenia


Synopsis
The Heath System Modernization (HSM) project has helped Armenia’s most vulnerable citizens
increase their geographical and financial access to quality basic health services, through
infrastructure development, more modern equipment in rural health facilities, and enhanced
knowledge and skills among primary health care (PHC) providers. Roughly 89 percent of the
people are now covered by retrained family medical providers compared to 47 percent in 2006.
Moreover, improving the quality of the principal regional hospitals and health care providers
and developing the PHC infrastructure in rural areas will eventually reorient regional patient
flows from the capital Yerevan to local health facilities.




Challenge                                                MULTIMEDIA
During the last two decades, Armenia’s social
sectors, including its health care system, have
faced enormous economic difficulties. Sharp
decreases in state allocations to the health
sector, high out-of-pocket payments, dilapidated
infrastructure, the lack of modern diagnostic
equipment, and poorly motivated medical staff all
combined to impede access to quality health
services, leading to an increase in mortality and
morbidity rates, especially among adults. As a
result, there was concern that people with health
problems would avoid the use of health services          Video:  Modernizing Armenia's Healthcare
altogether, primarily because of financial
barriers. The main challenges in Armenia’s
health care system are thus to ensure better
access to quality health services, reduce individual
                                                                      More Results
payments, reallocate the health budget toward the more
cost-effective PHC system, and rationalize health service
provision, including by optimizing excess capacity in the

                                                                       150
hospital sector.

Approach                                                               rural PHC facilities were
                                                                       improved through new
The HSM project has been designed to improve the                       construction and renovations
organization of the country’s health care system to provide            between 2004 and 2011
more accessible, higher quality, and more sustainable health
care services to the population, the most vulnerable in
particular, and to better manage public health threats. To this
end, the project continues to support government efforts to:
(i) complete the family medicine-based PHC reform that was          3000
launched in 1996; (ii) consolidate the hospital sector to           medical practitioners were
minimize the waste of scarce resources and improve the              retrained in family medicine
quality of care; and (iii) strengthen the government’s capacity
for effective stewardship in policy making.
                                                                    MORE INFORMATION
Results                                                              Health System Modernization
Between 2004 and 2011, the HSM project supported the                 Project APL phase 1 , June 10,
                                                                     2004–June 30, 2010
following key outcomes:
                                                                     Health System Modernization
                                                                     Project APL phase 2 , March 8,
       About 1,400 physicians and 1,600 nurses were
                                                                     2007–December 31, 2014
       retrained in family medicine.

       The infrastructure of 150 rural PHC facilities was
       improved through new construction and renovations.

       Three hospitals in Yerevan (“Yerevan State Medical
       University,” “Surb Grigor Lusavorich,” and “Surb Astvatsamayr” Medical Center (MC))
       were renovated and provided with modern biomedical and IT equipment.

       Seven regional hospitals were fully modernized: Kotayk region Hrazdan MC (population
       105,300), Tavush region Ljevan MC (49,200), Armavir region Armavir MC (121,500),
       Ararat region Ararat MC (95,500), Argatsotn region Aparan MC (22,400), Syunik region
       Goris MC (44,700), and Gegharkunik region Gavar MC (57,800). All were renovated
       and provided with modern medical equipment and furniture.

       726 managers of hospital facilities received management training developed by
       international consultants. 

       Health System Performance Assessment reports for 2006, 2008, and 2009 were
       developed, published, and distributed among stakeholders, demonstrating the positive
       impact of the government’s health reforms on health care quality and access.

       National Health Account (NHA) reports for 2004–10 were developed and published,
       presenting valuable information on the sources and volumes of financial flows in the
       sector, and providing an opportunity for decision makers to assess and revisit the results
       of the ongoing reforms and make essential policy adjustments.

       The modernization of the health system contributed to: (i) an infant mortality rate
       decrease from 14 (per 1,000 births) in 2002 to 10.8 in 2008; (ii) an under-five mortality
       rate decline from 16.6 (per 1,000 live births) in 2002 to 12 in 2008; and (iii) a maternal
       mortality rate drop from 37 (per 1,000,000 live births) in 2004 to 29 in 2009.



Bank Contribution
The HSM project is a two-phased Adaptable Program Lending (APL) to support the reform of
the health sector in Armenia in three main areas: developing PHC, optimizing hospital facilities,
and modernizing and strengthening government institutional capacities. The first and second
phases of the project—APL1and 2—were supported by IDA credits of US$19 million and $22
million, respectively; the government’s contribution was $2.8 million to APL1 and $7.17 million
to APL2. In December 2010, the Bank Board approved a $19 million additional financing (AF)
IBRD loan to APL 2, which became effective in June 2011.

Partners
There is a strong partnership among the key development partners in Armenia’s health sector.
The country’s health reforms were jointly supported by the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the World Health Organization (WHO). USAID helped finance the
critical training and retraining of PHC providers in the field of family medicine, and funded
project help to develop and install the Health Financing Management Information System
(HFMIS). WHO was instrumental in providing methodological guidelines and technical
assistance (TA) for the development and institutionalization of analytical policy tools, such as
Health Sector Performance Reports and National Health Accounts.

Moving Forward
The recently approved AF supports a further transition to family medicine-based PHC, the
completion of the regional hospital modernization process, and the institutional strengthening of
the overall system. A key emerging agenda is the growing importance of noncommunicable
diseases and injuries (NCDIs) in Armenia, which already significantly burden the health and
social welfare systems through premature death, long-term illness, or disability. Stronger
prevention efforts, such as public health interventions and better outpatient management of the
risk factors through primary care, could offer excellent value for money in health care going
forward. The new investment project under preparation aims to improve the health care
system’s effectiveness in prevention, early detection, and the management of selected
noncommunicable diseases.

Beneficiaries
About 2.5 million Armenians benefitted from the project, now having better access to
modernized facilities and quality health care provided by retrained physicians and nurses. In
the regions, a small number of specially trained physicians in centralized, renovated regional
medical centers now provide a wide range of health care services with state-of-the-art
equipment. Dr. Gevorgyan, who sees patients in her newly equipped outpatient unit, currently
performs procedures for which she used to send patients to a regional hospital or the capital.
“We used to send patients as far as 16 km to be treated at the regional polyclinic,” she said.
“Say, for an electrocardiogram, which takes 3–4 minutes, they would spend their whole day
waiting in front of the doors of the Hoktemberyan polyclinic.”
“We used to work in very bad physical conditions,” said Dr. Karine Hakobyan from a clinic in
Tairov. “The building was in a horrible state: there were two rooms, no flooring, we were at risk
of breaking our legs when we walked; the ceiling leaked. We would examine children, pregnant
women, ill and healthy people—all in the same room.”
