RESTRICTED
Report No.-FIJ-Ap:8
Report No. 5719-FIJ
7 his Report has beenprrdfo
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK |  ece use of theBank|
AA). 2698-Ed)
APPRAISAL
OF THE
SECOND FIJI DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
May 1985



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of 30 April 1985)
Currency Unit            -    Fiji Dollar (F$)
F$1.00                   =    US$0.8382
US$1.00                  =     F$1.1930
Since 4 April 1975, the exchange rate of the Fiji Dollar has
been determined daily in relation to a weighted basket of currencies of
Fiji's ma,or trading partners. In this report, an exchange rate of
US$1 = F$1.16 is used.
ABBREVIATIONS
AILB      -    Agricultural and Industrial Loans Board
BOMAS     -    Business Organization and Management
Advisory Services
CMA       -    Central Monetary Authorities
DFI       -    Development Finance Institution
DP        -    Development Plan (of Fiji)
EDB       -    Economic Development Board
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
EIRR      -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
FDB       -    Fiji Development Bank
FIRR      -    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FNL       -    FDB Nominees Limited
FNPF      -    Fiji National Provident Fund
FSC       -    Fiji Sugar Corporation
FY        -    Fiscal Year
GM        -    General Manager (of FDB)
CDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD      -    International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
MD        -    Managing Director (of FDB)
NBF       -    National 'Uanr.k of Fiji
RBF       -    Reserve Bank of Fiji
SPARTECA  -    South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic
Cooperation Agreement
SSEL      -    Suva Stock Exchange Limited
NOTES
(i)  The Fiscal Year (FY) of the Government coi-Lcides with the
calendar year, while that of the Fiji Development Bank
ends on 30 June.
(ii) "Tons" in this Report refers to metric tons (mt);
1 mt equals 1,000 kg.



PROJECT FOCUS, DESIGN AND RATIONALE
Fiji has a relatively high per capita income compared with
other developing member countries of the Bank in the South Pacific.
However, its economy is heavily dependent on sugar and tourism,
and is highly vulnerable to adverse external factors and weather
conditions- Poor performance of these two subsectors aue to the
worldwide recession combined with cyclones and a drought resulted in
negative economic growth in 1982 and 1983. One of the primary goals of
the Government is to diversify the economy and lessen the role of its
prominent subsectors of sugar and tourism.
In pursuing diversification and acceleration of growth of the
Fijian economy, the Government intends to utilize Fiji Development Bank
(FDB) as a major instrument of economic development, particularly for
the promotion of private enterprises. In line with this policy, two
Consultants under Bank technical assistance (TA No. 506-FIJ) carried out
an intensive study in early 1983 of the role and function of FDB with a
view to enabling it to play a more active role in economic development.
The technical assistance was completed in July 1983 and the Consultants'
recommendations on the reorganization and amendment of the Policy
Statement of FDB were implemented.
The first Bank loan of US$2.0 million to FDB was approved in
December 1973 and closed in January 1977 after an amount of US$1.9
million was utilized. There has been no active operational relationship
between the Bank and FDB since 1977 besides the technical assistance
given in 1983. FDB has now requested through the Government another
Bank loan of US$7.0 million.
As the only financial institution in Fiji, FDB provides
medium- and long-term loans for financing developmental projects in
various sectors. FDB is a well-organized development finance
institution with capable management and staff and is financially sound.
Its operations have been geared towards meeting the credit needs of
private sector enterprises and its operational performance has also been
satisfactory. FDB is a suitable vehicle for channeling the Bank's funds
for financing sound development projects in the private sector.
The proposed Bank loan will be utilized by FDB for making
subloans for financing developmental projects, mainly in the private
sector. The proposed loan will be utilized mainly for financing
industrial sector projects, while a limited amount may be utilized for
financing service sector projects. Tn view of the estimated foreign
exchange requirement of F$17.2 million (US$14.8 million equivalent) for
industrial sector projects during the two-year period FY1985/86 -
FY1986/87, the proposed Bank loan of US$7.0 million for FDB is
justified.



IBRD has expressed its keen interest in co-financing the
proposed FDB Project with the Bank. IBRD vili provide the Government
with a US$6.5 million loan, of which US$3.5 million (loan fund) will be
onlent by the Government to FDB on the same terms and conditions as
under the proposed Bank loan and an amount of US$3.0 million (equity
fund) will be used by the Government for making further equity
contribution to FDB. IBIRD will, for purposes of disbursement, blend the
equity fund and loan fund so that both the sources are utilized on a pro
rata basis (46:54) while making subloans to industrial and service
sector projects and agricultural sector projects. IBRD has earmarked
US$3.5 million out of its blended fund for subloans in the industrial
and service sector and US$3.0 million for lending to agricultural
projects. Considering FDB's foreign exchange requikements for the
two-year period FY1985/86-1986/87, the proposed IBRD loan is also
justified. Since the component of the IBRD loan relating to industrial
and service sector projects has the same scope as that of the proposed
Bank loan, the Bank will administer that portion of the IBRD loan in
accordance with its agreement with IBRD on their operations in the South
Pacific.
In addition to the proposed Bank loan, it is proposed that the
Bank provide FDB with an equity line of US$250,000. The proposed equity
line is expected to play a catalytic role in the development of private
enterprises in Fiji. In view of its satisfactory performance of its
equity investment operations, FDB is considered to be capable of
handling the Bank's modest equity line.
The proposed Bank loan and equity line are likely to benefit
about 150 projects in the industrial and service sectors and generate
some 700 job opportunities.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.   INiTRODUCTION                                            I
II.  BACKGROUND                                                2
A. Economic Background                                   2
B. Recent Performance of the Economy                     2
C. Development Planning and Performance                  3
D. Major Economic Sectors                                3
III.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT                                     8
A.  Objective and Scope                                  8
B.  The Proposed Loan                                    8
C.  The Proposed Equity Line                            12
D. Benefits and Risks                                   15
IF.  THE EXECUTING AGENCY                                     16
A. Organization and Management                          16
1. History, Legal Framework, Share Capital and
Relationship with the Government                16
2. Board of Directors, Organization and
Ma-nagement                                     16
3. Staff and Training                               17
B.  Operations                                          18
1. Activities                                       18
2.  Policies                                        19
3.  Procedures                                      20
4.  Operational Performance                         21
5. Projected Operational Performance                24
C.  Accounting, Audit and Financial Controls            25
D. Financial Performance                                26
1. Interest Rate Structure                          26
2. Past and Current Performance                     27
3. Portfolio Management                             30
4. Projected Financial Performance and
Resource Position                               32
E. Implementation of Previous Bank Loan                 35
and Technical Assistance
1. The Previous Bank Loan                           35
2. Previous Technical Assistance                    36
V.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                          38
APPENDIXES                                              39



I. I_ RODUCTION
1.       Since December 1970, the Bank has provided four technical
assistance grants to Fiji amounting to US$327,000 for the purpose of
effecting institutional improvements within the Fiji Development Bank
(FDB). Under the technical assistance projects, seven experts have
provided a total of 86 man-months of services to assist FDB in its
reorganization, formulation of policy statements and staff training.
The Bank's tecbnical assistance projects have improved FDB's operational
capabilities.
2.        On 21 December 1973, the Bank approved a US$2.0 million loan
(Loan No. 174-FIJ) from its ordinary capital resources to augment FDB's
foreign exchange resources. Of the US$2.0 million loan, US$1.9 Million
was disbursed by 11 January 191k and at the request of FDB, the rest of
the loan amount was cancelled.-  FDB has complied with the covenants
of the Bank loan. Following a request from the Government, the Bank
started the appraisal of a credit line of US$2.5 million in March 1976,
but the loan was not made in view of the inability of the Government and
FDB to agree to certain conditions proposed by the Bank.
3.        Following the Government's request for Bank assistance in
conducting an indepth institutional review of FDB to redefine FDB's role
and function for the 1980s, the Bank approved the fourth advisory
technical assistance of US$100,000 (TA No. 506) on 16 February 1983. A
team of two consultants was engaged for six man-months and the technical
assistance was completed on 15 July 1983. The Government and FDB were
satisfied with the report of the Consultants, and FDB has implemented
most of the recommendations made by the Consultants on the
reorganization of FDB (see para 54) and the amendment of FDB's policy
statement (see para 62).
4.       With the support of the Government, FDB has requested a second
loan of US$7.0 million from the Bank to meet part of FDB's foreign
exchange requirements.  At the request of the Government, IBRD has
agreed to co-finance the proposed Project. An Appraisal Mission of the
Bank visited Fiji from 25 January to 7 February 1985. The Mission
consisted of K. W. Lee (Senior Development Bank Specialist/Mission
Chief), M. Davey (Financial e eyst), 0. L. Shrestha (Country Officer)
and E. Suzuki (Senior Counsel)- . Mr. H. Murphy of the World Bank
joined the Mission in the field. This report is based on the findings
of the Mission and discussions with the Government, FDB and concerned
agencies and industrial representatives.
1/  The Post Evaluation Report for the project (PE-29 (IN), L 174-FIJ)
was circulated to the Board on 28 February 1980.
2/  Mr. E. Suzuki joined the Mission from 31 January 1985.



2
II. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Background
5.        Fiji comprises about 332 islands with a land area of 18,333
sq km. The country has an estimated population of 690,000 (mid-1984)
with an annual growth of 1.8 per cent. The per capita GNP in 1982 was
estimated at US$1,990 which is relatively high compared with other
developing member countries of the Bank. HOY7ver, income distribution
is highly skewed with the indigenous Fijians- having a significantly
smaller per capita income. Fiji has an open economy. which is
relatively advanced and broad-based compared with neighboring countries,
but highly vulnerable to adverse external factors. The main source of
Fiji's foreign exchange earnings and economic growth is sugar and
tourism; these two sectors together account for about 90 per cent of
total foreign exchange earnings and 19 per cent of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP). .luctuations in GDP growth rate generally reflect
changes in the earnings of these two sectors.
B.  Recent Performance of the Economy
6.        After experiencing negative economic growth in 1982 and 1983,
the economy achieved a good recovery in 1984 with an increased GDP in
real terms of 7.7 per cent. The major impetus for this growth came from
the sugar and tourism sectors. Production of sugar rebounded to 480,000
tons in 1984 compared with 276,000 tons in 1983. The total number of
incoming tourists in 1984 increased by 20 per cent to about 230,000 with
earnings from tourism amounting to about US$150 million compared with
US$133 million in 1983. However, real growth in GDP outside the sugar
and tourism sectors in 1984 was minimal. Due largely to moderate price
increases of imported goods, the rate of increase in consumer prices
declined from an annual average of 8.3 per cent during 1981-1983 to 5.3
per cent in 1984.
7.        On the external front, Fiji's current account deficit declined
from US$64 million in 1983 to US$38 million in 1984 as export earnings
recorded a growth of about 6 per cent after consecutive declines during
the period 1981-1983. Despite low sugar prices, export earnings grew
largely because of higher receipts from coconut oil, forestry products,
gold and other non-traditional exports. Payments for imports, on the
other hand, remained more or less constant during the period larx ely
because of lower imports of petroleum products following the
commissioning of the Monasavu Hydroelectric Project in October 1983.
Growth in receipts from tourism maintained the net surplus on the
services and transfer account at a high level in 1984. Fiji's foreign
exchange reserves, as of 31 December 1984, amounted to US$118 million
which could cover its import requirements for about 3.3 months.
External debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is about US$407 million
with the debt-service ratio of about 14.8 per cent.
1/  All Fijians and Rotumans (ethnic group from Rotuma Island) who are
registered in the Native Land Owners Registers. The indigenous
Fijians constitute 45 per cent of total population in Fiji
(mid-1984 estimates).



3
8.        Despite an impressive increase in goverment revenue of li per
cent, the fiscal deficit is estimated at about 6 per cent of GDP in 1984
compared with 4.2 per cent of GDP in 1983. This was due primarily to a
16 per cent increase in wages and salaries of government employees which
accounts for more than half of current expenditure. The fiscal deficits
have been financed mostly by domestic borrowings (about 68 per cent)
from the Fiji National Provident Fund (FNPF) and the banking system, and
partly from foreign borrowings (about 32 per cent). The 1985 budget
envisages a reduction in the overall fiscal deficit to about 4  per cent
of GDP. To achieve this target, the Government imposed a freeze on
salary and wages as well as on new recruitment in 1985 and also
increased the rates of indirect taxes.
C.  Development Planning and Performance
9.        Fiji has had a series of development plans. The major aims
under the ongoing Eighth Development Plan (DP8: 1981-1985) are to
achieve a more equitable distribution of national income through the
acceleration of agricultural development, improvement in rural living
conditions, and the creation of new employment opportunities, and to
minimize the problems arising from rapid urbanization. The DP8 places
particular emphasis on growth, diversification in agricultural
production, self-reliance, redirection of productive activities to outer
regions, and a more balanced geographical and ethnic sharing of the
benefits from development. Despite large-scale public investments, the
pace of economic growth during the initial years of DP 8 was adversely
affected by unfavorable external factors such as low commodity prices
and a drought and a cyclone in 1983. The real GDP growth rate averaged
only 0.3 per cent per annum during the period 1981-1983 with consecutive
uegative growth in 1982 and 1983. The prospects of attaining the target
growth rate for GDP of 5 per cent per annum. in real terms during the
period of DP 8 look extremely slim despite a good performance in 1984.
The potential for a shift to non-traditional agricultural products such
as rice, ginger, cocoa and vegetables remains good; however, such a
shift will take time and will need increased marketing and institutional
support from the Government.
10.       The Government is currently engaged in the preparation of DP 9
(1986-1990) which is expected to be ready before the budget presentation
in November 1985. Based on presently available information, the
development objectives enumerated in DP 8 are likely to be retained
during DP 9. The basic strategy under DP 9 will continue to be the
generation of more productive employment opportunities with an emphasis
on diversifying the economic base. The new Plan is expected to orient
the country's investment towards expanding primary sector output and
towards increasing industrial development linked with the country's
agricultural and forestry-related production.
D.   Major Economic Sectors
11.      Appendix 1 provides a detailed analysis of the recent
performance of major economic sectors. Key points are summarized be'o-w.



4
1.   Primary Industry Sector
12.       Sugar constitutes about half of the value of Fiji's
agricultural production and contributes two-thirds of the value of total
exports. About 95 per cent of Fiji's total sugar output is exported.
The area under cultivation increased significantly during the second
half of the 1970s and, as a result, annual sugar production increased
from 320,000 tons during the period 1970-1975 to 470,000 tons in the
early 1980s. At present around 250,000 tons are exported every year at
favorable prices under long-term contracts with EEC, Malaysia and USA,
while the rest of the stock is sold in the free market at much lower
prices. The Government, therefore, no longer encourages the expansion
of sugarcane fields.
13.       Since 1981 the Government has encouraged diversification of
agricultural production away from sugar. This policy emphasizes the
development of fruit and vegetable crops for export and increased rice
production to replace imports. It is the aim of the Government to reach
self-sufficiency in rice within three to five years. Livestock
production is already at self-sufficiency levels. Cocoa and pine
forests have both been identified as areas for rapid development. Out
of 37,000 ha of pine forests planted to date, about 10,000 ha are now
reaching maturity. The second most important commercial crop in Fiji is
copra. However, the rehabilitation and maintenance of coconut lands
have generally been neglected and these lands are generally low-yielding.
2.   Industrial Sector
14.       The industrial sector currently contributes around 12.2 per
cent of GDP and employs about 15 per cent of the work force. Sugar
milling accounts for around 35 per cent of industrial production. In
recent years, the non-sugar industrial sector has registered strong
growth, despite major constraints such as the small size of the local
market, underdevelopment of related industries, the long distance from
major export markets and a scarcity of trained manpower. Advantages
offered by Fiji to industrial development however include a stable
political climate, relatively low labor costs, free access of Fijian
products to certain South Pacific countries and raw materials available
from local agriculture and forestry. As Fiji is heavily dependent on
imports for a varietv of consumer and capital goods, there are also good
opportunities for the development of import substitution industries.
15.       In the past, industrial development in Fiji has mainly focused
on import substitution industries based on imported raw materials.
However, to maximize the benefits accruing from industrialization on a
long-term basis, the Government has shifted its policy to give higher
emphasis to linkages with other sectors of the economy, especially
agriculture, forestry and marine resource developmient. Following the
change in its approach, the Government provides high priority (called
Priority A) to; (i) industries based on local primary commodities, and
(ii) industries producing inputs required by primary and other sectors;
and accords priority (called Priority B) to; (i) industries producing
essential items from imported raw materials, and (ii) industries
producing goods for export from imported raw materials. In order to



5
maximize private investment in priority industrial sectors, the
Government provides various incentives such as tax holiday up to eight
years, exemption from import duties on machinery and equipment,
accelerated depreciation and tariff protection. The proposed Bank loan
and equity line will be primarily utilized by FDB to finance the
Priority A and Priority B industrial projects. For the promotion of
investments by foreign and local investors in non-traditional
industries, the G-vernment created the Economic Development Board (EDB)
in 1981. EDB serves as a one-stop contact point for providing potential
investors with information and for facilitating investors' dealings with
various ministries of the Government.
3.  Tourism
16.       Tourism contributes about 13 per cent of GDP and approximately
25 per cent of total foreign exchange earnings. While tourism provides
direct employment to only 6 per cent of the labor force, its indirect
contribution to employment is significantly larger. The year 1984 was
remarkably successful for tourism with a record number of 230,000
visitor arrivals and a 19 per cent increase in earnings which reflected
a strong recovery from the setback caused by cyclone damage to tourism
facilities in 1983. The prospects of the tourism industry, in the
medium term, are good and accordingly several new hotel projects have
recently been approved to expmnd the tourist accommodation capacity of
the country.
4.   The Financial Sector
17.       The financial sector in Fiji is well developed and is
represented by the Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF), six commercial banks and
three non-bank financial institutions. The three non-bank financial
institutions are Fiji Development Bank (FDB), Fiji National Provident
Fund (FNPF) and the Housing Authority. RBF enjoys a great degree of
autonomy from the Government and advises the Government on its monetary
as well as major economic policies. In addition to the usual functions
of a central bank, RBF is empowered to issue its own bonds, borrow
externally, and supervise the domestic and external borrowing of the
public sector. Commercial banks are required to comply with the
directives issued by RBF. However, FDB and FNFF are outside the direct
jurisdiction of RBF since they are established under special laws. At
the end of 1984, total deposits with commercial banks stood at F$451.6
million.
18.       On account of its conservative fiscal policy during the 1970s,
the Government required only limited financing during this period from
the banking and non-banking financial institutions and the growth of
credit was concentrated in the private sector. However, along with the
growing fiscal deficit and the implementation of large development
projects in the 1980s, the public sector required significant financing
from banking and non-banking sources. The credit demand of the public
sector increased further in 1983 for rehabilitation following the
damage caused by cyclone and drought during that year. As a reflection
of the upturn in the economy, private sector credit demand also remained



6
buoyant during 1984. The expansioy/of credit put a heavy pressure on
the country's balance of payments - and foreign exchange reserves
went down to as low as F$84 million at the end of the second quarter of
1984. In order to restrain credit ex!Tnsion, RBF increased the
Unimpaired Liquid Assets Ratio (ULAR)- from 12.5 per cent to 15.0 per
cent on 6 June 1984 and further to 18 per cent on 5 September 1984. The
statutory reserve deposit ratio for commercial banks was also increased
from 5 rtr cent to 6 per cent effective 5 December 1984. Following the
tight monetary policy applied by RBF, the yield on securities increased
considerably during 1984 as shown in Appendix 2. At the same time, RBF
has continued to stress the need for commercial banks to give preference
in lending to priority sectors. The restrictions on commercial bank
lending are expected to result in the transfer of some credit demand
from commercial banks to FDB.
19.       Suva Stock Exchange Ltd. (SSEL) is a wholly owned subsidiary
of FDB with a paid-in capital of F$20,000. SSEL started operations in
June 1979 to provide a trading floor for shares. As of 31 December 1984
only seven companies with a total issued share capital of F$37 million
were listed at SSEL and share trade has not been active. The Mission
considers that the growth of the share market in Fiji will be impeded
for quite some time by several factors such as the preference of Fijians
for holding savings in banking institutions rather than in share
investments, the relatively small size of the economy, and reluctance of
most local companies to be listed on the exchange.
5.   The Private Sector and Investment Climate in Fiji
20.       Fiji maintains a basically private sector oriented economy.
The Governmentts involvement in economic activity and development is
focussed mainly on the provision of infrastructure, and the limited
ownership of resources considered essential for meeting social
development objectives. State-ownership and control of enterprises is
therefore restricted to 68 statutory bodies, most of which are involved
in infrastructure activities such as electricity, ports, drainage and
non-profit oriented government services and financial institutions such
as RBF, FDB, FNPF, the National Bank of Fiji (NBF) and the Housing
Authority. Commercial non-banking operations owned by the Government
are restricted mainly to Fiji Sugar Corporation, Fiji Pine Commission
and Pacific Airways.  The private sector (as of 3?1 December 1984) has
3,278 companies including 48 "tpublic" companies- , most of which are
engaged in manufacturing and service sector activities.
I/   It is estimated that an expan.:ion of credit by F$1 creates on
average an increase in imports equivalent of F$0.50.
2/   The ULAR is the ratio of commercial bank's holdings of specified
liquid assets (such as cash, treasury bills, bonds issued by the
Government and statutory bodies including FDB as designated by RBF)
to its total deposits and similar liabilities.
3/   Companies with more than 12 shareholders are classified as public
companies according to the Companies Act of Fiji.



7
21.       Besides its policy commitment to a private enterprise economy,
financial constraints limit the Government's further involvement in the
ownership of resources. Despite tight budgetary control, the Government's
fiscal deficit has increased in recent years (see para 8). Under such
circumstances, the Government is not in a position to extend its capital
expenditure activities beyond the key infrastructure and support areas
for which it is directly responsible. Accordingly, the private sector
including investors from overseas has been and will continue to be the
major source of industrial and commercial investment funds. In summary,
the Mission has found that economic activity in Fiji is by and large in
the hands of the private sector which is assisted by supportive
government policies, incentives and activities. Fiji has a relatively
open economy which encourages foreign investment and this situation is
expected to remain over the medium to long term.



8
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.  Objective and Scope
22.       FDB is a multi-purpose development finance institution (DFI)
which provides financial services to enterprises in the agricultural,
industrial and service sectors. FDB has been a major instrument of the
Government for economic development, particularly for the promotion of
private sector enterprises. The objective of the proposed Project is to
provide FDB with financial resources in the form of a loan and an equity
line to enable it to expand its role in promoting development
activities.
B. Proposed Loan
1.  Loan Amount, Borrower and Guarantor
z3.       On the basis of FDB's estimated foreign currency resource
requirement of US$14.8 million for industrial sector projects during the
two fiscal years from 1985/86 to 1986/87 (see para 91}, it is proposed
that a second Bank loan of US$7.0 million equivalent- be extended to
7DB from the ordinary capital resourys of the Bank. The Loan will be
guaranteed by the Government of Fiji-3' and the Government will bear
the foreign exchange risk on the Loan-.
24.       In addition to the Bank loan, the Government of Fiji has
applied to IBRD for a loan of US$6.5 million equivalent, of which US$3.5
million equivalent (loan fund) is proposed to be onlent to4PB on the
same terms and conditions as under the proposed Bank loan - . and
US$3.0 million equivalent (equity fund) is proposed to be utilized by
the Government for making a further equity contribution to FDB. FDB
will utilize up to US$3.5 million to meet the foreign currency resource
requirement for its lending to industrial and service sector subprojects
and will utilize the remaining US$3.0 million for lending to
agricultural subprojects. IBRD has indicated that for purpo.zes of
disbursement it will blend the equity and loan funds and would for every
subloan disburse 46 per cent of the amount in foreign exchange from the
equity fund and 54 per cent from the loan fund. This would ensure that
FDB utilizes both loan and equity assistance in a balanced manner.
Since the IBRD loan for the industrial and service sectors will be
1/  Loan Agreement (L.A.) Section 2.01.
2/   Guarantee Agreement (G.A.) Section 2.01.
3/   L.A. Schedule 4, para. 11.
4/   The loan fund will be onlent by the Government to FDB at a fixed
interest rate equivalent to the interest rate of the proposed Bank
loan, while the Government will pay interest to IBRD at IBRD's
normal variable interest rate.



9
utilized by FDB for identical purposes as those under the prToyosed Bank
loan, the Bank will administer this portion of the IBRD loan- in
accordance with the agreement be0veen the Bank and IBRD on their
operations in the South Pacific.-
2.  Main Features
a.  Purpose
25.       FDB will use the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to extend
subloans to finan the foreign exchange cost of specific devel,pment
projects in Fiji.-  The subloans will be made available mainly to
privately owned enterprises, while a limited amount (up to 10 per cent
of the loan amount) could be provided to public sector enterprises on
the merit R/of specific subprojects subject to the Bank's prior
approval.- The loan is proposed to be a general credit line and no
specific sectoral allocaticn is envisaged.
26.       The proposed Bank loan is likely to be utilized by FDB
primarily for extending subloans for projects in the industrial and
servvice sectors so as to ensure an adequate interest spread to cover the
lending cost (see para 30). FDB's resource requirements for its lending
to the agricultural sector are expected to be met partly by the US$3.0
million to be obtained as part of IBRD assistance (see para 24), the
Government's additional equity contributions and local borrowings.
b.  Utilization
27.       The closing date for submission of subloan applications for
the Bank's approval/authorization for wH5}drawal will be two years from
the effective date of the proposed loan.-  The closing date for
withdowals will be four years from the effective date of the proposed
loan.'
I/   IBRD has indicated its agreement that the administration of  the
IBRD loan for the industrial and service sectors would follow the
Bank's loan administration procedures regarding subloan approval,
procurement and disbursement etc. IBRD requested that the proposed
Rank loan and this portion of the IBRD loan be disbursed at a rate
of 2:1 for each and every subloan in the industrial and service
sectors when procurement is made from common member countries of
the Bank and IBRD. This request is consilered reasonable and
acceptable to the Bank.
2/   See ADB-World Bank Co-Financing in the South Pacific, Doc.
In-149/80 dated 25 September 1980.
3/   L.A. Section 3.01.
4/   L.A. Schedule 4, para. 1.
51   L.A. Section 3.03 (c).
6/  L.A. Section 3.05.



10
c.  Amortization
28.       The proposed Bank loan will be for 15 years including a grace
period of three years ad will be serviced on the basis of a fixed
amortization schedule.-  Since the loan is expected to be utilized
for a large number of small subloans, the fixed amortization schedule is
more suitable than mirror type amortization. Sub-borrowers' repayment
terms to FDB will not " ceed 15 years including a grace period of not
more than three years.-  The fund generated from the recovery of
subloans, pending repayment to the Bank, will be utilized by FDB for
further lining to development projects in accordance with its Policy
Statement.-
d.   Interest Rates
29.       The Bank will charge its standard lending rate of 10.25 pgy
cent per annum on the disbursed and outstanding amounts of the loan-
and, in addition, its standard commitment fee of 0.75 per cent per annum
on the undisbursed portion-.
30.       The schedule of FDB's current interest rates on various
categories of loans and the proposed changes thereon are given in
Appendix 3 and summarized in Table 1. The proposed increase in interest
rates on industrial loans and loans under the Joint Venture Scheme (see
para 59) was approved by FDB's Board in August 1984, and the new
interest rates are going to be effective from August 1985. The interest
rate charged on subloans under the proposed Bank loan w11 be at a level
consistent with FDB's prevailing interest rate structure. However, in
view of the current and projected level of administrative expenses of
FDB's lending operations, the interest rate on each su:loan will he
decideg,at a level ensuring a minimum interest spread of 3 per cent per
annum.-   This envisages that the proposed Bank loan would be utilized
for subloans to industrial and service sector subprojects at an interest
rate of 13.5 per cent per annum.
Table 1:  EDB's Interest Rates
(As of 7 Febmnry 1985)
Inteest rate (per a 
Loan Categories             zrentt      Effective -  ofnP  19g  X
AgriMltlual lons         11.0-11.5 per ret    11.0-11.5 per cent
Comercial and inatial
Iws to Fijims             U.0 per cet           .0 per cant
Joint Venture S-ibee loan    12.0 per cent       12.5 per cent
Industrial loans         12.5-13.5 per cent      13.5 per cent
Cc.merclal loans-            13.5 per cent       13.5 per ceot
a/  TTline loans to service setor projects.
1/  L.A. Section 2.06 (a).
2/  L.A. Section 2.06 (b).
3/  L.A. Schedule 4, para. 4.
41   L.A. Section 2.02.
51   L.A. Section 2.03.
6/   L.A. Schedule 4, para. 2.



11
e. Free Limit
31.       In view of the size of the loans approved by FDB during the
last two financial years, FDB's project evaluation capability, and the
size of loans in its pipeline as of 31 De -mber 1984, it is proposed
that the free limit be fixed at US$80,000-.
f. Maximum Size of Subloan
32.       To ensure the diversification of the Ink-financed subloans,
the maximum size of subloans will be US$500,000- . PDB's Policy
Statement restricts its maximm commitment in any enterprise to 15 per
cent of its equity. This limit amounted to F$4.5 million or US$3.9
million equivalent as of 31 December 1984.
g.  Reimbursement of Expenditures
33.       Reimbursement of expenditures incurred up to 120 days prior to
receipt of subloay application. Ly the Bank will be allowed as under the
first Bank loan.-
h.  Procurement
34.       FDB will comply with the Bank's procurement guidelines
applicable to the South Pacific DF s. PDB will have to satisfy the Bank
that the procurement procedures adopted by individual sub-borrowers,
under the proposed Bank loan are appropriate in the circumstances.-
i.  Withdrawals
35.       Where procurement costs are less than US$75,000 and when the
foreign exchange cost cannot be precisely determined, the Bank loan will
provide for the withdrawal of 75 per cent of the cost of machinery and
equipment, and590 per cent of the construction cost as indirect foreign
exchange cost.-
j.   Subproject Performance Data
36.       FDB will compile relevant socio-economic and financial
information for each completed subprojegy for which it has provided a
loan in excess of US$50,000 equivalent.-
1/  L.A. Section 3.03 (b).  Under the first Bank loan, approved in
1973, the free limit was US$40,000.
2/   L.A. Schedule 4, para. 3.
31 L.A. Section 3.04.
4/   L.A. Schedule 3, para. 2.
5!  L.A. Schedule 3. para. 3.
6/  L.A. Schedule 4, para. 5.



12
k.  Reporting Requirements
37.       FDB will furnish to the Bank (i) a progress report on its
operations on a quarterly basis within two mon 9s after the end of each
quarter according to an agreed standard format--; (ii) its projected
disbursement schedule for the Bank lo e in the coming year (for every
quarter), by 15 December of each years- ; (iii) its updated financial
projections including income statements, fund flow statements and
baAye sheets for the succeeding five fiscal years by 1 September each
year- ; and (iv) an audit report, in a format satisfactory to the
Bank&,within five months from the end of FDB's fiscal year (see para
81).-
C.  Pro-osed Equity Line
1.  Justification
38.      While PDB's operations in equity investments were not dynamic
until FY1983/84 (see para 70), the return on its equity investments was
generally satisfactory and the quality of FDB's equity investment
portfolio was generally good (see para 91). In May 1984 FDB adopted a
more active policy towards equity inve-tments than it had followed in
the past. FDB's new policy on equity investment is provided in Appendix
7, page 60. Under its new policy it will allocate F$200,000 each year
for equity investments. FDB has found in recent years that some good
projects, mainly in the industrial/commercial sector, have not proceeded
for want of adequate equity funds. In those cases, FDB was unable to
provide loans to worthwhile projects because their debt/equity ratios
would have been too high. FDBrs new equity investment policy will allow
it to assist such projects through the provision of both loan and
equity. As of 31 December 1984, FDB had pending equity investment
applications totalling F$300,000 for six projects, four of which were
in the agroprocessing or industrial sector and two in the tourism
sector. The Bank has been asked to supplement FDB's equity investment
operations through the provision of an equity line of US$250,000. The
provision of such a facility would allow the Bank to play a catalytic
role in promoting the growth of the private sector in Fiji and also an
institution-building role within FDB for its equity investment
operations. In view of FDB's good performance in equity investment
operations (see para 91), the Mission considers that FDB is capable of
handling the proposed line of equity. Moreover, each and every equity
investment under the proposed equity line will be reviewed and approved
by the Bank. Considering FDB's annual allocation of F$200,000 for its
own equity investments and its pending equity investment applications,
the proposed equity line of US$250,000 is justified.
1/  L.A. Section 5.05(b).
2/  L.A. Section 5.06(b)(ii).
3/ L.A. Section 5.06(b)(i).
4/  L.A. Section 5.06 (a).



13
2.   Legal Framework
39.       A Framework Agreement on Equity Investment Operations dated 15
February 1985, setting out the privileges, Immunities and exemptions
applicable to the Bank's equity investment operations 'n Fiji has been
entered into between the Bank and the Government (see Appendix 22).
Under this Framework Agreement, the Bank: {i) will be immune from any
restrictions and controls applicable to foreign investors; (ii) may
freely sell participations in the shares agreed to be subscribed by it;
(iii) may freely sell or dispose of its equity investments to domestic
buyers or foreign buyers; (iv) may repatriate freely, in a convertible
currency, at the then current exchange rate, any income, gains and seles
proceeds of its equity investments; and (v) wlll be exempt from taxation
on the income and capital gains arising from its equity investments.
3.  Amount and Utilization Period
40.       qy amount of the proposed line of equity is US$250,000
equivalent.-  FDB will submit all appraisals and investment proposals
within two_2ears from the effective date of the line of equity
agreement,- and the Bank will not enter into any su1cription
agreement after three years from the effective date.-' The effective
date of the proposed equity line will be synchronized with that of the
proposed Bank loan.
4.  Eligible Enterprises
41.       The eligible enterprises under the proposed line of equity
will be economically and financially viable private enterprises
incorporated in Fiji engaged in the manufacturing, forestry, mining,
transportation or tourism sectors, and of high socio-econemic priority.
The enrerprises may be wholly owned by Fijifns or be joint ventures with
foreign partners.  Gover m  t-owned corporations will ncr be eligible
for the Bank's investment.-
5.   Limits on Equity Investment
42.       The maximum size of the Bank's equity investment in a single
enterprise will be US$100,000 and the ninimum size will be US$25,000
subject to R upper limit of 20 per cent ownership of the shares of an
enterprise.-  For each project, at least 25 per cent of the project
cost wi} be financed by the local project sponsors in the form of
equity.-
1/  Line of Equity Agreement (L.E.A.), Section 2.01.
-1   L.E.A., Section 3.06.
3/  L.E.A., Section 2.03.
4/   L.E.A., Schedule 1, para l(b).
51   L.E.A., Section 2.02(b).
6/  L.E.A., Schedule 1, para 5(c).



14
6.   FDB's Role and Fees
43.       Under the proposed line of equity, FDB will select and   I/
appraise projects for consideration by the Bank for its investment.-
In selecting projects for Bank investments, FDB will give due attention
to the project's profitability and include in the appraisal reports the
necessary s2ysitivity tests with respect to variations in critical
parameters.-  FDB will also supervise the investment projects and
submit quarterly status reports on the Bank's investments, and syher
information as needed and advise the Bank on necessary actions.-
While the Bank will rely on FDB to a large extent in the selection,
appraisal and supervision of Bank investments, the Bank will also play
an active role in their appraisal and supervision where necessary and
ensure that appropriate criteria are applied. This is expected to
contribute to the strengthening of FDB's capabilities in equity
investment operations. The Bank and FDB will consult each other on
nominating and appointing the4Yank's representatives to the boards of
directors of the enterprises.-  However, if so required by the Bank,
FDB may represent the Bank on the board of directors of th e
enterprises or in discussions with the other shareholders.~-  FDB will
also provide advice to the eJnk with regard to disposal opportunities
for the Bank's investments.-
44.       For these services, the Bank will pay to FDB a performance
related fee of 3 per cent of annual dividend received, an annual
administration fee of 0.5 per cent of the Bank's outstanding investment
portfolio, and a disposal fee of 1 per cent of the disposal proceeds
with proviso that the disposa}lof the shares was profitable and was made
with FDB's direct assistance.-
7.   FDB's Parallel Investment
45.       For each of the Bank's investments, FDB will make a parallel
equitl,investment on a 1:1 basis unless otherwise agreed by the
Bank.-
8.   Rate of Return
46.       Each investment pr w osal will be expected to have EIRR and
FIRR acceptable to the Bank.-   It was indicated to FDE that an
important criterion to be applied by the Bank in evaluating an
investment proposal by FDB is the ability to provide the Bank a return
equal in equivalent dollar terms to the Bank's OCR interest rate, plus
an adjustment for the perceived risk of the investment.
1/  L.E.A., Section 3.01.
2/  L.E.A., Schedule 1, para 3.
31   L.E.A., Section 5.04.
4/   L.E.A., Section 5.02.
5/   L.E.A., Section 5.03.
6/  L.E.A., Section 5.06.
7/  L.E.A., Section 6.01.
8/   L.E.A., Section 3.02(c).
9/   L.E.A., Schedule 1, para. 3.



15
9.  Disposal of Bank Investments
47.       FDB will assist the Bank with regard to the sale of the Bank's
investments. The Bank investments will be sold, whenever possible, on
the open market. However, in view of the limitations of the share
market in Fiji (see para 19), the Bank will consider various possibilities
in the disposal of investments such as buy-back agreements with local
shareholders.
D.   Benefits and Risks
'8.       The first Bank loan of US$1.9 million (the amount disbursed)
resulted in substantial economic benefits, such as creation of 1,100
jobs, incremental investment of around US$2 million, and the development
of local entrepreneurial skills (see para 101). In order to provide
more up-to-date data on socio-economic benefits anticipated from the
proposed Project, FDB recently undertook a survey of 39 industrial
projects with FDB's loans of over F$50,000 made between 1 July 1981 and
30 June 1982. According to the survey, those projects, which had an
aggregate loan amount of F$4.52 million, generated; (i) incremental
value added of F$2.3 million per annum, (11)  net foreign exchange
earnings/savings of F$6.4 million, and (iii) incremental employment for
250 people. The proposed Bank loan and equity line are expected to
benefit about 150 projects in the industrial and service sectors and
generate some 700 job opportunities.
49.       Project risks are related to the lack of international
competitiveness of most Fijian enterprises, in terms of pricing, product
design and quality. This problem is largely a result of the small size
of the local market, long distance from major export market, lack of
trained manpower, and the underdevelopment of local industries supplying
components and intermediate inputs.  Since Fiji has maintained a free
trade policy and has relied heavily on imported consumer as well as
capital goods, such risks are well-known to local entrepreneurs.
However, in order to miniTmze the risks, FDB should be careful in the
selection of subprojects to ensure that the subprojects financed under
the proposed Bank loan have international comparative advantage.
Industries based on agriculture and forestry are considered to have
comparative advantages.
50.       In addition to the risks mentioned above, a risk associated
with the proposed equity line relates to the disposal of the Bank's
investments. Since the local share market is yet to be developed as
evidenced by small trade volume through the Suva Stock Exchange Ltd.
(SSEL) operated by FDB (see paras 19 and 61), the Bank may have
difficulty in the disposal of its investments. In order to minimize
such a risk, the Bank will seek buy-back agreements with local project
sponsors (see para 47) under the proposed equity line, whenever
possible.



16
IV. EXECUTING AGENCY
A. Organization and Management
1.  History, Legal Framework, Share Capital
Relationship with the Government
51.       FDB was established on 1 July 1967 under the Fiji Development
Bank Act. FDB is an autonomous statutory body with its own Board of
Directors. Although FDB has been empowered to carry on banking
business, the provisions of the Banking Act and the Companies Act are
not applicable to it; nor is it subject to the regulatory powers of RBF.
FDB's authorized capital is F$50 million, of which F$20.5 million has
been paid-up and held entirely by the Government as of 31 December 1984.
The Government will promptly inform the Bank of any proposal for the
anendment of the Act in order for the Bank to Wve a reasonable
opportunity to comment on the proposed change.-
52.       In pursuing diversification and acceleration of growth in the
Fijian economy, the Government has been utilizing FDB as a major
instrument of economic development, particularly for the promotion of
private sector enterprises. Accordingly, FDB enjoys the full support of
the Government.  The Government provides FDB's capital in full, assists
FDB in resource mobilization through foreign borrowings as well as bond
issues in the local financial market, provides guarantee and foreign
exchange risk cover on FDB's foreign borrowings, and grants exemption
from income-tax. FDB is under the general supervision of the Minister
of Finance. FDB's administrative budget is subject to the approval of
the Minister of Finance, but FDB has been given full autonomy in its
operation.
2. Board of Directors, Organization and Management
53.      FDB's operation is controlled and closely supervised by its
Board of Directors which has nine members, all of whom are appointed by
the Minister of Finance in accordance with the FDB Act. The private
sector is well represented on FDB's Board, contributing five directors
including the Chairman. A list of the members of FDB's Board of
Directors is given in Appendix 4. The Mission is satisfied that all of
FDB's directors are well-qualified and provide relevant expertise to
FDB's operations. FDB's Board meets regularly once a month to set
policies and approve loans individually exceeding F$100,000. Based on
FDB's Board papers and the minutes of Board meetings during 1984, the
Mission '.s fully satisfied that FDB's Board is functioning
satisfactorily and is providing proper guidance on FDB's operations.
54.      The organization chart of FDB is given in Appendix 5.  FDB's
organizational structure had originally been revised and strengthened as
a result of the remmmendations under the Bank's first technical
assistance in 1970- and the structure was maintained with no radical
1/  L.A. Schedule 4, para. 6.
21   T.A. No. 42-FIJ, approved on 22 December 1970.



17
change until 1983. Following the recommendations of the consultants
under the Bank's recent technical assistance (see para 3), effective 1
April 1984, FDB introduced substantial reorganization. FDB's
organization has been restructured into three functional groups:
Operations Group, Finance/Business Development Group and Administration
Group. With a -iew to coping with its e;panding operations and
increasing its developmental role, several new departments were created
within the three functional groups such as; (i) the National Operations
Division to coordinate the operations of branches and to provide
advisory services to new and problem projects; (ii) the Special Loan
Schemes Division to consolidate processing and supervision of loans
tinder special lending schemes; (iii) Electronic Data Processing Systems
Department; (iv) Policy and Planning Department; (v) Equity Investment
Department (see para 65); and (vi) a separate department for staff
training activities. In addition, effective 20 August 1984, a Loan
Recovery Unit was established under the direct supervision of the
General Manager (Operations) in order to control hard core arrear
accounts (see para 66). The Mission is satisfied that FDB's new
organization structure provides a satisfactory framework for coordination
and control of its operating activities and is adequate to cope with the
expectat =n of a more active role to be played by FDB in economic
development. Currently, FDB has nine branch offices in major towns and
operates ten agencies in smaller towns, visited by FDB staff from time
to time.
55.       FDB's chief executive is the Managing Director (MD) who is
assisted by two General Managers (GM). The MD and GMs are appointed by
FDB's Board of Directors, in practice, for an indefinite period. The
incumbent tiZ, who had a long career in civil service, was appointed to
the position in March 1983 and both the GMs are long-standing FDB
employees. The Mission is satisfied that the incumbent MD and GNs are
-apable and qualified for their respective positions. FDB through the
Chairman of its Board, will promptly inform the Bank of any proposed new
appointment to the position of ND.-
3.   Staff and Training
56.       As of 31 December 1984 FDB's staff strength was 160, consisting
of 101 professional staff and 59 supporting staff, compared with a staff
establishment of 42 as of 30 June 1973 when the first Bank loan was
appraised. Historically, FDB's staff turnover has been low (less than 3
per cent per year with an exception of 8 per cent in FY1980/81) mainly
due to job security and competitive remuneration and benefits offered by
FDB. FDB's professional staff is well-balanced in terms of academic
qualificdtions, experience and potential in the context of the South
Pacific DFIs. Out of 101 professional staff, 42 staff have college
degrees in accounting, economics, commerce, agriculture or business
studies. However, there is no engineer on FDB's staff at present. In
view of the growing size and complexity of projects financed by FDB, it
would be essential for FDB to build up its staff capacity in the
technical evaluation of projects. Recognizing its need, FDB will hire,
1/   L.A. Schedule 4, para. 8.



18
by 31 December 1985 or such other date as may be agrT7d upon between the
Bank and FDB, an engineer as a regular staff member.-   FDB's
personnel policies and management are considered satisfactory to the
Mission.
57.       FDB has been giving increasing emphasis to staff training.  In
early 1983 FDB appointed a full-time Training Officer. During the two-
year period up to 31 December 1984, 114 staff members attended 11
in-house training courses, 48 staff members attended 16 external courses
conducted by the local university or training institutes, and 22
officers attended various overseas training courses including the Bank's
regional training programs for DFIs in the South Pacific. FDB also
encourages, by paying tuition fees, its staff to study in universities.
Currently, 11 staff members are taking part-time courses in the local
university and 2 are studying on a full-time basis in universities in
the United Kingdom and Fiji. The Mission is satisfied with FDB's
training program.
B.   Operations
1.   Activities
58.       FDB's basic functions are to facilitate and stimulate the
promotion and development of natural resources, transportation and other
industries in Fiji. To enable it to carry out its functions, it has
been authorized to grant loans, issue guarantees, underwrite loans and
issues of capital, subscribe to stocks, shares, bonds and debentures,
establish and manage projects, lay out estates for sale or lease, and
provide advice and assistance to industrial and other enterprises.
However, FDB's main activities are at present confined to the provision
of assistance primarily to the private sector, mainly by extending
medium and long-term loans and equity participation for develop-tent
purposes. As a multipurpose DFI, FDB extends its assistance to projects
in agriculture, livestock, fisheries, mining and quarrying,
manufacturing and processing industries and service sectors including
transport, communications and tourism.
59.       In April 1975 FDB began granting loan2under the Commercial/
Industrial Loans to Fijians Scheme. The Scheme- was initiated with a
view to developing entrepreneurship among indigenous Fijians and
assisting their entry into the main commercial stream of the country.
Under this scheme, loans up to F$100,000 are giyn by FDB for all types
of business, except for agriculture and fishing- , on concessional
terms with lower interest rate (11 per cent per annum) and with less
security margin. The Government bears the full loss of loans up to
F$50,000 suffered by FDB due to the relaxation of its lending guidelines
and provides an interest subsidy (of 1.5 per cent at present) to bring
1/  L.A. Schedule 4, para. 9.
2/ Applicable to companies and partnerships which are 100 per cent
owned by indigenous Fijians and Rotumans.
31   The interest rate charged for projects in these sectors is at
present 11 per cent per annum.



19
the lower interest rate charged on such loans to the normal level. In
FY1983/84 FDB introduced the Joint Venture Loan Scheme to increase
the participation of indigenous Fijians in commerce and industry, in
addition to the above mentioned Fijian Loan Scheme. To qualify for a
loan under the Scheme, a company or partnership must have a minimum of
25 per cent indigenous Fijian shareholding. Under the Scheme, the
maximnm size of the loan is F$200,000 at a concessional interest rate of
12 per cent per annum.
60.       FDB's promotional activities in the agricultural sector are
satisfactory. Senior staff of FDB frequently visit various parts of the
country and hold meetings with field staff of the Department of
Agriculture and Fiji Sugar Corporation (FSC) to explain the FDB's
facilities to those who have the closest contact with farmers. This
arrangement is working satisfactorily since the Department of
Agriculture field staff provide extension services and also assist FDB
in screening loan applications and in following up assisted projects.
For the promotion of industrial sector projects, FDB maintains a close
relationship with the Economic Development Board (EDB) (see para 15),
which is the Government agency for industrial promotion. FDB also
keeps the general public informed of its operations through the mass
media.
61.       FDB has two wholly owned subsidiary companies, viz., Suva
Stock Exchange Ltd. (SSEL) and FDB Nominees Ltd. (FNL). SSEL with
paid-in capital of F$20,000 started operations in June 1979 to provide a
trading floor of shares. Since the stock trade volume is not enough to
maintain its own staff, SSEL is currently run by FDB staff on a
part-time basis. The details of SSEL's operations are provided in
Appendix 1, paras 21-24. PNL was incorporated on 30 July 1979 with
paid-in capital of F$20,000 in order to undertake activities beyond
those normally taken up by a DPI. FNL is empowered to undertake
investment banking activities such as underwriting, share placement, or
related financing and securities operations. However, FNL's most
significant performance was limited to a one-time operation for the
sale of six million Fiji Sugar Corporation shares in 1980. PNL is
engaged in certain administrative and secretariat functions to the Unit
Trust of Fiji (Management) Ltd. on a fixed management fee basis.
Although both SSEL and FNL are not active in operations, these
institutions provide useful services to the economy. SSEL and FNL were
established with prior consultation with the Bank.  FDB will consylt
with the Bank prior to establishing or acquiring any subsidiary.-
2.  Policies
62.       FDB's  Statement of Operating Strategy and General Business
Policy, as revised in accordance with the recommendation of consultants
under the fourth Bank technical assistance, is given in Appendix 7.
The Statement, which lays down the scope of operations, general policies
and procedures, financial guidelines and policies regarding the creation
of provisions and reserves, is considered satisfactory. It places
1/   L.A. Section 5.08 (d).



20
emphasis on the development role of FDB and provides satisfactory
guidelines for sound banking practices. FDB has generally adhered to
the guidelines set down in the Statement of its operations. FDB will
change the Statement only17fter mutual consultation and agreement
between the Bank and FDB.-
3.  Procedures
63.       FDB's current operating procedures are embodied in its
Operations Manual. The Manual has been supplemented by FDB taking into
account changes in its activities and operations. Together with a wide
selection of training materials that have been developed by FDB over the
years, the Manual provides satisfactory guidance to FDB staff in loan
processing, documentation, procurement, disbursement and supervision of
projects financed.
64.       Under the current loan processing procedures of FDB, branch
offices are responsible for loan processing as well as supervision of
projects financed, and where the loan amount exceeds the discretionary
authority of the Lranch manager (i.e.. F$3,000 to F$12,000 depending on
the size of the branch), the27ppraisal reports are further reviewed and
approved by the head office.-  Since the project evaluations are
undertaken by branches, the quality of appraisal has not been even. In
the absence of engineering staff, FDB has difficulty with the evaluation
of the technical aspects of projects although technical expertise 'rom
government departments is utilized from time to time. In order to
Overcome this weakness, FDB will recruit3? qualified engineer as a
regular staff member by 31 December 1985- . There is also scope for
further improvement in the evaluation of the economic and marketing
aspects of projects. With a view to improving its project evaluation,
FDB will follow a subproject appraisal report format formulated in
consultation with the Bank for the subloans under the proposed Bank
loan. FDB will also prepare financisl projections for three years (from
the time of completion of the subproject) for subloans above US$50,000
equivalent and it will calculate the financial internal rate of return
(FIRR) for subloans above the free limit. Where the subloan amount
exceeds US$250,000 equivalent, FDB will calculate the economic internal
rate of return (EIRR) and will also undertake a sensitivity analysis on
the FIRR taking into account the critical variables which could have an
impact on project viability.
65.       Following the recommendation of the consultants under the
fourth technical assistance, FDB created an Equity Investment Department
within its Industrial Division in April 1984 (see para 54). However, as
1/  L.A. Schedule 4, para. 7.
2/   Under the current discretionary authorities of FDB, loans up to
F$12,000 are approved by Department Managers, up to F$20,000 by the
Division Managers, up to F$50,000 by the General Manager, and up to
F$100,000 by the Y-anaging Director. Loan amounts exceeding
F$100,000 are approved by the Board.
3/   L.A. Schedule, para. 9.



21
FDB's equity investments are normally made together with its loan
financing and the volume of its equity investments still does not
warrant a scparate department, no staff has been assigned to the
Department yet, and the evaluation and supervision of equity investments
are still undertaken by loan officers in the Industrial Division. This
arrangement is considered practical and reasonable at present. The
Mission was satisfied that FDB's staff in the Industrial Division were
capable of handling the Bank's equity iuvestments under the proposed
line of equity.
66.       N& nmal project supervision is the responsibility of the loan
officers in FDB's branch offices who also conduct project appraisal.
The control of accounts in arrears has been computerized and follow-up
action is adequate. Where loans in excess of F$50,000 have been in
arrears of over F$5,000 for more than three months, the control of
accouuts is passed on to the Loan Recovery Unit, which is responsible
for effective control and further appropriate action. The Unit submits
detaIled quarterly reports to the Board on control measures being
effected. In order to assist small-scale borrowers with operational
problems, FDB has been operating a Mnnagement Advisory Services
Department since 1982. FDB also provides for the assistance of
extension officers from the Ministry of Primary Industries for
agricultural sector borrowers and trainin by Business Opportunity
Management and Advisory Services (BOMAS)- for the commercial and
industrial sector borrowers.
67.       While FDB's project supervision is considered adequate in
meeting its need of supervising a large number of small borrowers, it
could be further improved. Currently, FDB's project supervision is
triggered only when its borrower falls in arrears. Considering the
growing size and complexity of projects financed by FDB. its management
now intends to orient sunervision towards ex ante problem prevention
rather than ex post problem solving. FDB management indicated that FDB
would evolve its supervision of large-scale projects along this line.
4.  Operational Performance
a.   Overview
68.       Highlights of FDB's lending during FY1980181-1983/84 and the
first six months of FY1984185 are summarized in Table 2; details of loan
operations are given in Appendix 8. FDB's operations have continued to
be concentrated on providing loans for medium and long-term investment.
1/   BOMAS is an institution established under the auspices of the
Ministry of Fijian Affairs in order to train potential businessmen
among indigenous Fijians and Rotumans.



22
Table 2: Summary of Loan and Equity Investment Approvals
(FY1980/81-1984/85)
CE$1000)         mg
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84  31/12/84=
EY exdiag 30 Jtm   b. Ainit ND. Amt lb. Amt Nb. Ammt Nb. hmmat
Ag2ia.llture     1,473 7,918 2,069 8,660 1,590 6,647 1,950 8,367 629 3,148
kns              206 7,029  195 6,732  235 7,942  247 12,297 131 7,336
1tda]lcmrdal
la  to Fijians    403 1,918  410 1,403  342 1,562  328 1,981 2Q2  952
EqityInvestmts      1   70  -   -         1   45    1   100   4 4,318
Total           2,083 16,935 2,674 16,795 2,168 16,196 2,526 22,745 966 15.769
a/ Six   ts fran 1 July to 31 Deeuber 1984.
69.       FDB's loan and equity investment approvals were maintained at
a constant level duing the three years till June 1983. During
FY1983/84 a record level of approvals was achieved with a 40 per cent
increase in approvals over the previous year's figures. This growth in
operations was a result of a more aggressive approach to identifying and
promoting new lending business that resulted largely from the leadership
of the current Managing Director following his appointment in March
1983; an increase in investment activity in the industrial/commercial
sector mainly in the area of new factory, warehouse and office
buildings; the advent of a few larger projects including the Savusavu
Oil Mill project; a demand for investment funds to rehabilitate damage
caused by cyclone Oscar in March 1983; and a general under-supply of
loan funds from commercial banks resulting from the tight money policy
iz:posed by RBF (see para 18). This trend has continued during the first
six months of FY1984/85, when there were record approvals amounting to
F$.15.77 million.
70.       FDB's equity investment operations were not dynamic in the
past. As of 31 December 1984, FDBts equity investment portfolio
amounted to F$5.4 million or 5.4 per cent of its total portfolio. This
has been partly the result of FDB's perception of its role as being
principally a provider of loan finance and partly because of
unwillingness on the part of FDB's Board to become involved in an area
of financing that is cousidered to be the sole preserve of the private
sector. Those equity investments that are currently held are detailed
in Appendix 16. FDB's involvement in equity investment operations
escalated substantially during the first half of FY1984/85 following the
adoption of a more clearly defined equity investment policy by FDB's
Board. The purchase of 30 per cent of the shares in a brewery at a cost
of F$3.55 million on alyemporary basis, has resulted in a doubling of
FDB's share portfolio.-
1/  FDB's investment in the brewery was made with the objective of
taking over the management of the company from foreign investors.
FDB will dispose of its investment in the company shortly (the
contract for the sale of the shares to a provincial government has
been signed).



23
b.   Sectoral Distribution
71.       A detailed analysis of the sectoral classification ni
approvals during FY1980/81-1983/84 and during the first six months of
FY1984/85 is presented in Appendix 9. During the period, FDB approved a
total of 10,410 loans amounting to F$49.15 million. FDB's lending was
evenly distributed between agricultural and industrial/ commercial loans,
with agriculture receiving 74 per cent of approvals by number and 41 per
cent of approvals by value, while the industrial/commercial sector
received 26 per cent of approvals by number and 59 per cent of approvals
by value. During the last 18 months of the period the industrial/
commercial sector received an increasing proportion of approvals (66 per
cent by value) reflecting the growing relative importance of the
industrial/commercial sector.
72.       Of the industrial/commercial loan approvals, manufacturing
industries received the greatest share (22 per cent of total approvals)
followed by transport (11 per cent), commercial including office
buildings (10 per cent) and the construction industry (6.8 per cent).
Tourism accounted for only a minor share (2.7 per cent) of FDB's
approvals during the four and a half year period. Significantly, most
of the growth in approvals pertained to the manufacturing sector which
includes agroprocessing, and to a lesser extent the commercial sector.
This growth in lending to commercial projects reflects FDB's policy of
broadening its loan portfolio to include a higher proportion of loans
that, while having lower developmental merits, yield a higher return to
FDB thus allowing lower interest rates to be provided to more
developmental projects, particularly in the agriculture sector.
73.       Agriculture loan approval levels remaineu relatively unchanged
over the period with sugarcane production receiving the highest
proportion of total approvals by value (16.8 per cent) followed by rice,
fruit and vegetables (10.8 per cent) and fishing (3.9 per cent). This
mix also remained relatively unchanged over the period reflecting the
continued importance of sugarcane as Fiji's principal export crop.
Efforts to diversify Fijian agriculture have been mainly in the areas of
increased rice, fruit and vegetable and citrus production althougn these
efforts have not so far significantly decreased the proportion of FDB's
agriculture loans that have gone to assist sugarcane production.
74.       The annual level of approvals under the Commercial and
Industrial Loans to Fijians Scheme has remained virtually unchanged
during the period reflecting the steady but low level of development of
entrepreneurship among indigenous Fijians. This category of lending, 76
per cent of which has been to local transport or retail businesses, has
the worst arrears record within FDB's loan portfolio (see para 89) and
accordingly, FDB's policy has been to follow a cautious expansion path
in that area of operation.



24
c.  Size, Maturity and Geographic Distribution
75.       A breakdown of FDB's loan approvals by region, for FY1980/81-
1983/84 and for the first six months of FY1984/85 is provided in
Appendix 9. Appendix 10 provides an analysis of loan approvals by size
and maturity for the same period. The regional distribution of FDB's
lending has shifted somewhat over the four and a half year period in
that the Suva and East Viti Levu regions have been receiving an
increasing proportion of total loan value. This ls a direct result of
the increasing proportion of FDB's lending that has been made to the
industrial and commercial sectors which tend to be centered on Suva.
West Viti Levu, as the most important sugarcane growing area in Fiji,
received the highest number of loans over the period (43 per cent of
total loan approvals) reflecting the smaller average size of agriculture
loans. While the annual value of loans approved to the Viti Levu areas
has increased bctween FY1980/81 and 1984/85, the value of loans made to
Vanuz Levu each year has declined slightly. This is held to be a result
of ^ lesser degree of economic (particularly agricultural)
diversification on that island, a trend which has become a matter of
some concerna to FDB and the Government.
76.       The distribution of FDB's loan approvals by size reflects the
predominance of small agricultural loans in FDB's portfolio. For the
FY1980/81-1983/84 and the first six months of FY1984/85, the average
size of agricultural loan was F$4.505.  By number, 57.9 per cent of the
agriculture loans approved during the period were less than F$5,000 each
and only 37.2 per cent were between F$5,000 and F$25,000. Only 16
agricultural loans with a total value of F$4.68 million (5.6 per cent of
total approval value) were F$100,000 or more each, reflecting the small
medium sized land holdings of the country. On the other hand, the
average size of industrial/commercial loans was F$18,211 during the
period. FDB provided loans of F$100,000 or more each to 88 industrial
or commercial projects to a total value of F$21.28 million (25.4 per
cent of total approval value) over the period with 57 per cent of the
amount approved during the final 18 months.
77.       The weighted average maturity of total loans approved was ;.2
years forlyhe period, FYl981/82-1983/84 and the first six months oi
FY1984/85- , consistent with FDB's role as a medium to long-term
lender. There has been little change in the average maturity of loans
between FY1981/82 and the first six months of FY1984/85. By number of
loan approvals, 58.5 per cent of FDB's loan approvals during the three
and a hal' year period were for periods of less than four years which
reflects the high proportion of small loans for the purchase of vehicles.
5.  Projected Operational Performance
78.       The projected loan and equity investment approvals of FDB for
FY1984185-1988/89 are summarized in Table 3 and the details are
presented in Appendix 11.
1/   Data were not available for FY1980/81.



25
Table 3: PT)B's Projected Loan and Equity Investment Approvals
-  F!1986.185-1988189)
PT embd30 June9B4/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89  Total  Z
AgRicnluml 1T     7,380  11,300  12,900  14.800  17,000  63380 36.0
lcmxu            14,000  15,450  18,310  21,790  26,O0D  95,550 54.3
himtdn]1lrdal
I   to Fijio s    1,62D  1,780  1,950  2,140  2,350  9,840  5.6
Fquity fnvesUmt    6,32D    200    200    200    200  7,120  4.1
Total           29,320  28,730  33,360  38,93D  45,550 175,890 100.0
(US$ equiv.)   25,340  24.830  28,830  33.650  39,370 152.020
79.       Of FDB's total projected approvals of F$175.89 million
(US$152.02 million equivalent) during the five financial years ending
30 June 1989, the industrial and commmecial sectors would account for
54.3 per cent, followed by the agriculture sector (36 per cent). Equity
investments would account for 4.1 per cent of total approvals although a
high proportion of those approvals vere made during the six-month period
prior to 31 December 1984. The projected approvals represent an annual
average growth rate of 15 per cent. These projections, which take into
account the envisaged capital outlays in the country, the operational
performance of FDB during Ffl983/84 and the first six months of
FY1984/85 and its existing pipeline, would appear to be optimistic
compared with the approval levels achieved during FY1980/81-1982/83.
However, considering FDB's active operational performance during the 18
months up to 31 December 1984, lts more dynamic policy towards promoting
its financial services and the restrictions on commercial banks' lending
(see para 18), FDB's operational projections are considered reasonable
and attainable.
C. Accounting. Audit and Financial Controls
80.       FDB's accounts are maintained in accordance with the require-
ments of the FDB Act and in line with generally accepted accounting
principles. The accounting system is centralized at the head office and
is computerized. Computerization has upgraded the quality of FDB's
accounting and management information systems, allowing the preparation
of a wider range of reports, particularly with regard to arrears
analysis. The Finance Division is managed by a qualified accountant who
has three qualified accountants reporting to him, each in charge of one
of the three departments: Accounting, Budget and Planning, and Data
Processing. The Mission found that good controls exist within FDB's
accounting system which processes 6,000-8.000 transactions each month
quickly and efficiently.



26
81.       The FDB Act requires the accounts of FDB to be audited by a
certified public accountant who is approved by the Minister of Finance.
For the selection of auditor, FDB invites proposals from major auditing
firms every three to four years. Currently, the contract to undertake
the audit is held by the Fiji office of an international firm of
accountants. FDB is required to submit annually to the Minister of
Finance, a copy of its audited annual accounts and report on its
operations for the year. The format of FDB's audit report for FY1983/84
and previous years has not provided sufficient information to meet the
Bank's requirements. The Mission discussed the required audit report
format with EDB mnagement and its auditors, and was assured that there
would be no difficulties in providing future audit reports in the format
required by the Bank. FDB's future audit report will also include a
review by the external auditors of the adequacy of FDB's provision for
doubtful debts, the auditors' opinion as to FDB's compliance with the
covenants of its long-term borrowings, and of the adequacy of FDB's
accounting and financial control systems. FDB will furnish this report
to the Bank not later than five months after the close of the fiscal
year to which they relate. The Bank will have the right to contact
FDB's external auditor directly fgr a discussion of FDB's statement of
accounts and financial position.-   The proposed external audit
arrangements are satisfactory.
82.       FDB has an Internal Audit Unit consisting of two staff
members. The internal auditor, who is a qualified accountant, reports
to MD. An audit of all branches and of the head office is carried out
every 18 months and the audit comprises a review of the staff's
compliance with operating and funds management procedures. Included in
this review is a check on the efficiency with which staff have handled
loan applications and a full review of the procedures followed in
handling the arrears situations. The Mission found that the internal
auditor's report to MD resulted in satisfactory follow-up action from
the management and staff concerned.
D.  Financial Performance
1.   Interest Rate Structure
83.       Appendix 2 provides the interest rate structure in Fiji and
Appendix 3 provides details of FDB's current interest rate structure and
of proposed changes thereon (see para 30). While FDB is not legally
bound by the maximum lending rate determined by RBF, which has been 13.5
per cent since 1981, FDB voluntarily follows the ceiling in setting its
interest rates. FDB charges the same rate (i.e., 13.5 per cent) as that
of commercial banks for its commercial loans, and will increase its
interest rate for industrial loans also to 13.5 per cent per annum
effective August 1985.  This indicates that except for the lower rates
1/  L.A. Section 5.06(c).



27
for its agL;cultural loans and loans under special lending schemes for
indigenous Fijians, FDB is competing with commercial banks on an equal
basis.  FDB's interest ratas have remained positive compared with the
inflation rates of 8 per cent in 1983 and 6 per cent in 1984.
84.       An important feature of FDB's interest rate policy is the
decision by its Board to maintain the interest rate on agriculture loans
and on industrial and commercial loans to Fijians at 11 per cent. This
concessionary rate reflects the high priority given to the agriculture
sector by both FDB and the Government. Although the increasing interest
rate paid by FDB on local bond issues has resulted in a reduced interest
spread, FDB's profits have been maintained at an acceptable level by
good control of operating expenses, a steadily increasing loan portfolio
value and the maintenance of a low debt/equity ratio through regular
equity injections. FDB has agreed to review its interest rates annually
and to consult with the Bank prior to making any changT? in its interest
rate structure during the period of the proposed loan.-
2.  Past and Current Performance
85.       Table 4 summarizes FDB's financial performance for FY1980/81-
1983/84 and the first six months of FY1984/85.
1/  L.A. Schedule 4, para. 2.



28
Table 4:  Summary of Financial Performance
(FY1980/81-1983/84)
(F$'000)
1984/85
FY ending 30 June        1980/81   1981/82  1982/83  1983/84 (to 31 Dec.)
Total assets                53,279    58,710   70,099   96,712   106,679
Loan portfolio              47,228    53,934   63,307   87,145    94,990
Equity inv. portfolio          904       862       833      898     5,434
Arrears                      2,323     4,204    5,852    7,135      8,030
Per cent to portfolio (Z)     4.92      7.79      9.24     8.19      8.45
Collection ratio (Z)         77.86     67.97    59.70    60.28      53.63
Income from loans            4,562     5,631    6,535    8,144      4,756
Income from equity inv.         66       104        85      167        82
Operating expenses           1,536     1,780    2,019    2,386      1,350
Interest on borrowings       2,666     3,089    3,469    4,649      3,132
Net income                     636        800      878      894       889
Equity                      13,996    15,950   22,261   28,691    30,081
a /
Ratios:-'
Debt/equity ratiob/         2.62:1    2.48:1   1.95:1   2.16:1    2.24:1
Debt servi e coverage
(times)'          /         3.27      2.92     3.22      1.54      1.25
Return on equity (Z -         4.83      5.34      4.60     3.51      6.05
Return on eyity before
provision-'  f/             6.82      8.89      8.55     6.91      6.06
pnterest spr:&2               2.57      3.02     2.78      2.00      0.77
Earnings spread&              2.03      2.59      2.75     2.44      1.89
Operating expenses/average
total portf io (Z)         3.47      3.46     3.40      3.31      2.87
Current ratio-                6.90      8.44      2.45     2.58      2.68
a/  The ratios calculated for the first six months of FY1984/85 have
been distorted by seasonal factors and the timing of annual
repayments.
b/   Total long-term debt to total equity.
c/   Internal cash generation plus loan collections to total debt
servicing requirement.
d/  Net income to average equity.
e/  Net income plus provision for doubtful debts to average equity.
f/ Income from portfolio as a percentage of average portfolio minus
interest on borrowings as a percentage of average borrowings.
~/ Total income as a percentage of average total loans and investments
minus interest and operating expenses as a percentage of average
total loans and investments.
h/   Current assets/current liabilities.



29
86.       During the period FY1980/81-1983/84 FDB achieved  a return on
equity of between 3.51 and 5.34 per cent. The major constraint on
profitability has been the relatively low interest spread of between 2.0
per cent and 3.02 per cent (see para 84). However, given the obligation
to maintain a 'arge number of small agriculture loans and tne high costs
associated with supervising these loans, it is considered that PDB has
maintained a reasonable profit position over the period. The financial
position of FDB remained comfortable throughout the period with a debt
service coverage of not less than 1.54 times and a debt/equity ratio of
not more than 2.62:1, well within the proposed covenanted maximum of 3:1
for the proposed loan. FDB's return on equity before provisions for
doubtful debts was at a reasonable level throughout the four-year perlod
FY1980/81-1983/84 falling to 6.91 per cent during FY1983/84 following
returns of 8.89 per cent and 8.55 per cent respectively in the two
preceding financial years. The Mission considers that the covenanted
level for the proposed loan of 6.0 per cent return on equity before
provisions for Jpubtful debts should be readily achievable in the light
of this record.-
87.       FDB's sources and application of funds during FWs1980/81-
1983/84 are detailed in Appendix 14 and sumarized in Table 5. Details
of FDB's borrowings as on 31 December 1984 are given in Appendix 19.
During the period, loan disbursements contributed the bulk of total fund
requirements accounting for 77.91 per cent. Debt service was relatively
light (20.5 per cent) due mainly to the long-term nature of PDB's
domestic borrowings, most of which have lump sum repayment terms.  Internal
cash generation provided half of the total source of funds with the rest
covered by borrowings (39.19 per cent) and share capital increases (10.45 per
cent).
Table 5: Summary of FDB's Sources and Application of Funds
(FY1980/81-1983/84)
(F$O000)
FY ending 30 June                     1980/81-1983/84           Z
Sources of Funds:
Internal Cash Generation                 20.97               22.08
Loan Collections                          26.30              27.69
Borrowings                               37.22               39.19
Share Capital Increase                     9.93              10.45
Increase in Current Liabilities            0.56               0.59
Total                                   94.98             100.00
Application of Funds:
Loan Disbursements                        74.00              77.91
Equity Disbursements                       0.22               9.23
Debt/Service                              19.47              20.50
Acquisition of Fixed Assets                0.37               0.39
Increase in Current Assets                 0.92               0.97
Toia.L                                  94.98             100.00
1/   I.A. Schedule 4, par. 10.



30
3.  Portfolio Management
a.  Loan Portfolio
88.       A detailed sectoral analysis of FDB's loan portfolio at year
end over the period FY1980/81-1983/84 and the first six months of
FY1984/85 is given in Appendix 15.  An analysis of FDB's arrears and
collection performance is given in Appendixes 17 and 18. Between the
end of FY1980/81 and 31 December 1984, FDB's portfolio increased in line
with its lending operation. The share of agricultural loans by amount
in the total portfolio increased from 48.7 per cent to 57.1 per cent,
industrial and commercial loans declined from 39.5 per cent to 34.8 per
cent and industrial and commercial loans to Fijians declined from 11.8
per cent to 8.1 per cent. The share of industrial and commercial loans
in the total portfolio began to increase from FY1982/83, however, and
with the recent upsurge in approvals this increase will continue.
89.       The loan arrears situation of FDB has somewhat deteriorated
since FY1980/81 although it is still at a manageable level. Total
arrears increased from F$2.32 million or 4.92 per cent of total loan
portfolio on 30 June 1981 to F$8.03 million or 8.45 per cent on 31
December 1984. Total arrears as a percentage of loans in repayment
stage increased from 5.68 per cent to 9.93 per cent between the two
dates. Sectorally, the industrial and commercial loans to Fijians were
the worst affected loan category with total arrears to total portfolio
increasing from 18.62 per cent on 30 June 1981 to 21.84 per cent on 31
December 1984. Over the same period, arrears on industrial and
commercial loans increased from 2.88 per cent of outstanding to 11.23
per cent and those on agriculture loans increased from 3.40 per cent to
5.16 per cent. As principal and interest repayments on all sugarcane
loans are made direct to FDB by FSC prior to paying growers the proceeds
from cane purchases, FDB has been able to maintain very good control of
arrears in that category of lending, thus  _ducing the arrears to total
portfolio ratio for agricultural loans. Total collections as a
percentage of total dues decreased from 77.86 per cent during FY1980181
to 60.28 per cent during FY1983f84.
90.       The deterioration of FDB's arrears situation has arisen from a
number of factors including the effect of cyclone Oscar in 1983. the
general downturn of the economy since 1981, inadequate attention to loan
supervision by branch mtyagers and staff, and problems with two large
service sector projects- that have been ongoing since FY1981/82. The
major single cause of the deterioration in the arrears situation has,
however, been the relatively low priority afforded to loan supervision
activities by staff. Particularly during the one year period up to 31
December 1984, the volume of loan applications being processed has
increased substantially and the processing of these applications has
taken a higher priority than supervision activities. FDB's management
has recognized the problem and has instructed loan officers to devote
1/  They relate to an interisland shipping service and the funding of a
tourist hotel. Both projects had cost overruns and subsequently
encountered management and marketing problems.



31
more time for supervision activities as well as establishing a Loan
Recovery Unit at the head office responsible for collecting past dues
from larger arrears clients (see para 66). In addition, consideration
is being given to increased specialization of loan officers in matters
relating to agricultural and industrial/commercial sectors to facilitate
better focussing of effort on project supervision and improved loan
appraisal quality.  The Mission considers that FDB has reacted well to
the changing arrears situation and has re-established good control of
delinquent accounts. Generally, the Mission considers that FDB's
arrears are manageable and collection performance is adequate and that
this situation will continue. The current provision for bad and
doubtful debts amounted to F$4.6 million or 5.2 per cent of total Igan
portfolio and 50.06 per cent of total arrears on 31 December 1984.-
The Mission confirmed the adequacy of this provision with FDB's external
auditors who review the quality of FDB's loan portfolio on a six-monthly
basis.
b.   Equity Inwestment Por:'olio
91.       An analysis of FDB's equity investment portfolio at 31
December 1984 is presented in Appendix 16. Earnings on equity
investment through dividends and capital gains on the sale of shares
have given a satisfactory return to FDB. During the period
FY1980/81-1983/84, the annual income including capital gains from equity
investment as a percentage of total equity investment portfolio reached
a high of 18.6 per cent in Fl1983/84 and a low of 7.3 per cent in
PY1980/81. Of the equity investment held in 12 companies on 31 December
1984, 6 were in companies operating profitably and making regular
dividend payments, 5 were in projects still under implementation, and 1
was in financial difficulties.  Shares in two companies were sold during
November 1984 for a total capital gain of F$306,151. The shares were
purchased during 1978 and 1979 at a total cost of F$234,473.  The
Mission considers that FDB has followed a sound and prudent equity
investment policy. Some investments have been made (particularly in
Fiji Co-operative) for social development and these are not expected to
yield a high return to FDB. FDB maintains close supervision of its
equity investments and is represented at all board meetings of investee
companies, usual-ly through its own director. The Mission considers that
FDB has adequate expertise in equity investment in terms of both
appraisal and supervision capabilities to handle satisfactorily the
Bank's equity investments.
1/  Excluding loans under the Commercial and Industrial Loans to Fijian
Scheme, for which no provision is required as they are guaranteed
almost in full by the Government. In accordance with its Policy
Statement, FDB provides annually to the provision for bad and
doubtful debts so that such provision is equivalent to 5 per cent
of its loan and equity investment portfolio.



32
4.  Projected Financial Performance and Resource Position
92.       A summary of FDB's projected financial performance for FY1984/85-
1988/89, which is considered realistic and attainable, is given in Table 6
and details in Appendixes 12, 13 and 14. The major assumptions of these
projections are given in Appendix 20.
Table 6: Summary of Projected Financial Performance
FY1984/85-1988[89
(F$'000)
FY ending 30 June        1984185   1985/86  1986/87  1987/88   1988/89
Total assets               116,180   127,180  141,360  153,976   170,903
Loan portfolio             100,650   112,436  124,894  138,893   156,794
Equity portfolio             7,019     7,189    7,349    7,499      7,639
Arrears                      8,052     9,394   10,391   11,511    12,863
Per cent to portfolio (Z)     8.00      8.35      8.32     8.29      8.20
Collection ratio (Z)         62.79     67.19    69.30    68.51      69.41
Income from loans           10,370    12.597   14,030   15,743    17,828
Income from equity             172        124      135      147       161
Operating expenses           2,878     3.294    3,130    3,619      3,759
Interest on borrowings       6,229     7,159    8,130    9,208    10,884
Net income                   1,169      1,475    2,085    2,479     2,717
Equity                      36.360    39,835   42,920   47,399    53,116
Ratios:-
Debt/equity ratio           2.02:1    2.02:1   2.11:1   2.07:1    2.03:1
Debt service coverage
(times)                     1.33      1.99      1.98     2.13      1.46
Return on equity (Z)          3.58      3.86      5.04     5.49      5.41
Return on equity before
provision                   6.98       7.23     7.73     8.13      7.94
Interest spread               1.94      2.51      2.32     2.10      1.50
Earnings spread               2.33      2.43      2.54     2.63      2.57
Operating expenses/average
total portfolio (Z)         2.94      2.90      2.68     2.60      2.42
Current ratio                 5.70      4.85      7.22     2.99      3.09
a/  Ratios calculated on the same basis as for Table 4.
93.       FDB is projected to maintain reasonable profitability over the
period with its return on equity slowly increasing in line with the
value of its loan portfolio. A reasonable profit situation is expected
to occur despite relatively tight interest spreads that are projected to
increase to 2.51 per cent in FY1984/85 gradually falling to 1.50 per
cent in FY1988/89. The initial increase in interest spreads will result
from the growing proportion of FDB's portfolio composed of higher
earning industrial and commercial loans and the subsequent decrease will
result from the gradual repayment of existing lower cost funds to be



33
replaced by higher cost FDB bonds. A current problem encountered by
FDB has been the relatively high cost of its local currency funds which
are sourced prismarily from the issuance of FDB bonds. The yields on FDB
bonds have recently reached a high of 11.5 per cent on 14-year
maturities and 10.5 per cent on 6-year maturities. These high rates are
believed to have resulted from tight monetary policies (see para 18).
It is anticipated that, as a result of the significant improvement in
the balance-of-payments position as at the end of 1984 and RBF's
subsequent decision not to tighten its monetary policy, the cost of
funds from the bond market is not expected to increase further.  The
profit projections have been made on the assumption that yields on FDB
bonds will continue at levels of 11.5 and 10.5 per cent. FDB's ability
to diversify its sources of funding away from the domestic bond market
is somewhat constrained. However, any success in such diversification
or any easing in domestic interest rates would improve the projected
profit position. Also critical to FDB's future profitability is the
maintenance of strong control of operating expenses which are projected
to increase at around 5 per cent each year. Income from equity
investments has been projected on a very conservative basis because of
the recent substantial increase in the value of FDB's equity investment
portfolio and the long gestation period of the larger projects invested
In. FDB will maintain a minimm return (before provisifys for bad and
doubtful debts) of 6 per cent on its average net worth.-
94.       Loan collection rates are projected to improve from the
E71983/84 figure of 60.28 per cent to 69.41 per cent for FY1988/89 as
the recent and planned moves to improve loan supervision procedures take
effect. The projected debt/equity ratio, which reaches a high of 2.11:1
in FY1986/87 and then declines to 2.03:1 in FY1988/89, remains within
the proposed debt/equity ratio ceiling of 3:1 under the proposed Bank
loan. The proposed debt/equity ratio of 3:1, which reduces the average
cost of funds, is an important element in 1DB mantaining reasonable
profitability in the face of its high cost of borrowings. The necessary
capital injections from the Government to maintain the debt/equity ratio
are consistent with the level of equity injections provided in the past
and also consistent with the Government's strong support to FDB.
Projected debt service coverage figures indicate that FDB will be able
to comply with the covenant under the proj?sed loan to maintain a
minimum debt service cover of 1.25 times.-  The generally long-term
maturity of FDB's current borrowings will be of assistance in achieving
the projected debt service performance.
95.       FDB's projected financing plan for the period FT1984/85-
1988/89 is rsunmarized in Table 7 and detailed in Appendix 14.
1/  L.A. Schedule 4, para. 10.
2/   L.A. Section 5.09(ii).



34
Table 7: FDB's Financing Plan for FY1984/85-1988/89
(F$'000)
FY ending 30 June                     1984185-1988189          Z
Sources of Funds:
Internal Cash Generation                 66.99              27.92
Loan Collections                         68.23              31.24
Borrowings - L.C. (FDB Bonds)            58.57              26.81
- F.C. (ADB/IBRD/EIB)         16.15               7.39
Share Capital Increase                   14.50               6.64
Increase in Current Liabilities           0.02                -
Total                                 218.46             100.00
Application of Funds:
Loan Disbursements                      138.27              63.29
Equity Disbursements                      7.12               3.26
Debt Service                             74.21              33.97
Acquisition of Fixed Assets               1.20               0.55
Increase in Current Assets              ( 2.34)             C 1.11)
Total                                 218.46             100.00
96.       The major sources of finance are projected to come from loan
collections (F$68.23 million), internal cash generation (F$60.99
million) and local currency borrowings (F558.57 million). The major
applications of funds are projected to be for loan disbursements
(F$138.27 million being 63.29 per cent of total funds applied) and debt
servicing (33.9 per cent of total funds applied). Debt servicing
requirements as a ratio of total funds applied are projected to increase
significantly at the same ratio as was seen in the preceding four and a
half year period up to 31 December 1984, partly as a result of higher
interest costs and partly as a result of the growing maturity of FDB's
liabilities.
97.       The proposed Bank loan will be utilized by FDB mainly for
lending to industrial and service sector projects (see para 26). Based
on its operational projections, FDB's lending to industrial and service
sector projects are estimated to be around F$26.6 million (US$22.9
million) for the two-year period FY1985/86-1986/87 on a commitment
basis. Assuming 70 per cent of those committed loans are eligible for
financing under the Bank and the IBRD loans, the foreign exchange
requirements of such eligijie projects are estimated to be around F$17.2
million (US$14.8 million).-  As of 31 December 1984. FDB had an
available foreign currency resource of only 4 million European2;urrency
Units (US$2.5 million) from the European Investment Bank (EIB)- and
1/  FDB finances only up to 65 per cent of project cost and the foreign
exchange component is estimated to be around 60 per cent of project
cost.
2/  The EIB loan was approved by EIB in November 1984 and become
effective in February 1985. The loan will be utilized for
financing industrial, fishing and tourism projects.  Repayment of
the EIB loan will be over a 12-year period including a four year
grace period and interest rate is 6.85 per cent per annum. Foreign
exchange risk will be borne by the Government for which FDB will
pay a fee of I per cent per annum.



35
the estimated foreign exchange resource gap is around US$12 million
during the two-year period. The resource requirement of this order
justifies the proposed Bank loan of US$7.0 million and the IBRD loan of
US$3.5 million. FDB's local currency resource requirement would be met
primarily from the issuance of FDB bonds and partly by the Government's
additional equity contributions.
E.  Implementation of the Previous Bank Loan and 'fecbnical Assistance
1.  The Previous Bank Loan
a.  General
98.      The previous Bank loan of US$2.0 million to EDB (Loan No.
174-FIJ) was approved on 21 December 1973 and became effective on
19 March 1974. By the closing date for disbursements on 11 January
1977, US$1.9 million had been disbursed. The undisbursed amount of the
loan was cancelled at FDB's request. The loan was utilized to finance
145 subprojects, five of which were above the free limit of US$40,000.
The sectoral distribution of the loan was as detailed in Table 8.
Table 8: Sectoral Distribution of Previous Bank Loan
(Loan No. 174-FI)
($ '000)
Sectors                         No.        Z       Amount        z
Agriculture                        35      24.1       334.3      17.7
Industry                           20      13.8       619.3      32.8
Service:
Transportation                   74      51.1       585.8      31.0
Construction                      6       4.1       168.6       8.9
Others                           10       6.9       180.2       9.6
Sub-cotal                        90      62.1       934.6      49.5
Total                             145     100.0     1,888.2     100.0
99.      While it was expected that the manufacturing sector vrould be
the main beneficiary of the Bank loan, in reality 49.5 per cent of
disbursements went to service industries, 17.7 per cent to agriculture
and only 32.8 per cent to the industrial sector. Almost the entire
amount of the loan was utilized on a reimbursement basis for "off-the
shelf" purchases made in Fiji by the sub-borrowers.
b.  Nature of Subloan
100.     The subprojects had the following characteristics:  the
agricultural loans were mainly for procurement of tractors to assist the
mechanization of sugarcane farming, the transportation loans financed
the purchase of buses and small trucks, and the industrial loans
financed the acquisition of plant and equipment and the construction of



36
new factory buildings. The subloans were distributed throughout the
three major islands of Viti Levu, Vanua and Ovulan. The average size of
aujbloans from the Bank's credit line was about US$13,000. The repayment
performance of the sub-borrowers was satisfactory.
c. Sccio-Economic Impact of Bank Subloan
101.     According to the Post Evaluation Report on the first Bank loan
to FDB, it was estimated that: (i) the 145 subprojects generated a
total of 1,100 Jobs; (ii) each Fiji dollar of Bank assistance had
mobilized another dollar of investment in the private sector and; (iii)
the average EIRR of 16 sample subprojects was about 25 per cent. In
addition, there were non-quantifiable benefits such as the development
of local entrepreneurial skills. In general, the subprojects assisted
by the Bank loan appeared to have satisfactory financial and economic
performance.
d.  Complwance cith Bank Covenants on the First Bank Loan
102.     Appendix 21 contains a summary of FDB's compliance with the
covenants under the first Bank loan. All conditions relating to the
loan were complied with.
2. Previous Bank Technical Assistance
103.      The Bank has provided four technical assistance grants for the
purposes of institutional improvement within FDB as shown in Table 9.
Table 9: Bank Technical Assistance Grants to FDB
TA No.    Approval Date       Amount            Purpose
42-FIJ  22 December 1970  US$ 90,000  To assist in reorganization
and management training.
70-FIJ   8 August    1972  US$ 37,000  Extension of TA No. 42-PIJ.
102-FIJ   21 December 1973  US$100,000  To strengthen FDB's training
programs and develop its
economic evaluation
capabilities.
506-FIJ   16 February 1983  US$100,000  To assess FDB's past
performance, redefining FDB's
role and functions, and
development of operational
strategies and guidelines.



37
104.     A Post Evaluation Missionts RevieviY of the first two
technical assistance grants concluded that they had successfully
contributed to the transformation of FDB from a rural-oriented
government-department type institution to a  Pdern and effective
development bank. The same Mission's review- of the third technical
assistance concluded that the intensive efforts of the consultants have
fully met FDB's needs for staff training at the time. The fourth
technical assistance was successfully concluded and the major
recommendations including amendment of the Policy Statement (see para
62) and reorganization of FDB (see para 54) were accepted by FDB and
have been implemented.
11 Post Evaluation Report on the Bank's first loan to FDB, page 8.
2/  Post Evaluation Report on the Bank's first loan to FDB, page 9.



38
V. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
105.      FDB is the only financial institution in Fiji providing medium
and long-term finance for developmental projects in the agricultural,
industrial and service sectors. It has played a major role in the
economic development of Fiji. Following the successful implementation
of the recommendations of the consultants under the Bank's technical
assistance in 1983 including the reorganization and amendment of its
Policy Statement, FDB is expected to become more development-oriented
and play a more active role in the economic development of the country,
particularly in the development of private sector enterprises, in
accordance with the Government's expectations.
106.      FDB's institutional and operational aspects continued to be
satisfactory. Its management and staff are qualified and competent.
Its operational policies and procedures are sound and satisfactory. Its
operations are development-oriented and have shown a substantial
increase since FY1983/84. Although its profitability has slightly
deteriorated recently following the increasing cost of its borrowings
from the local financial market, FDB maintains a sound financial
position. The quality of its portfolio is generally satisfactory as its
arrears are at a manageable level and are adequately covered with its
portfolio provision.
107.     The Mission considers that FDB continues to be a suitable
channel for Bank funds to private sector enterprises in Fiji. Based on
a projection of FDB's lending activities over the next three years,
which is considered realistic, and in view of FDB's foreign exchange
resource requirement, it is proposed that the Bank approve a loan in the
amount of US$7.0 million equivalent from the Bank's ordinary capital
resources to FDB.
108.      FDB has performed satisfactorily in its equity investment
operatioii. In view of its experience, FDB is considered capable of
processing and supervising the Bank's equity investments. FDB has
agreed to handle the Bank's equity investment on behalf of the Bank. It
is therefore recommended that an equity line in the amount of US$250,000
equivalent be provided to FDB.
109.      In addition to the standard loan covenants, FDB has agreed to
the following: (i) a maximum debt/equity ratio of 3:1, (ii) a minimum
debt service coverage ratio of 1.25 times, (iii) a minimum return on
equity before provision of 6 per cent per annum, (iv) annual review of
its interest rate structure, and (v) recruitment of a qualified engineer
by 31 December 1985.
110.      The proposed loan and equity line are likely to benefit about
150 projects in the industrial and service sectors and generate some 700
job opportunities.



39
APPENDIXES
No.                                                               Page
1        Review of Major Economic Sectors in Fiji                 40
2        Structure of Interest Rates in Fiji                      49
3        Schedule of Current and Proposed Interest Rate
Changes                                                  50
4        List of Members of the Board of Directors                51
5        Organization Chart                                       52
6        Staff Analysis by Division and Grades                    53
7        Statement of Operating Strategy and General
Business Policy                                          54
8        Sumary of Operations                                     63
9       Analysis of Loan Approval by Industrial Sectors
and by Region                                            64
10       Analysis of Approval by Loan Size and Maturity            65
11       Actual and Projected Operations                           66
12       Actual and Projected Income Statements                    67
13        Comparative Balance Sheets                               68
14       Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements                 69
15        Analysis of Loan Portfolio by Induistrial Sectors        70
16       Analysis of Equity Investment Portfolio                   71
17       Analysis of Arrears                                       72
18        Coliection of Loans                                      73
19       Details of Borrowings as of 31 December 1984              74
20        Major Assumptions for the Operational and Financial
Projections, FY1984/85-1988/89                           75
21        Status of FDB's Compliance with Loan Covenants           80
22        Framework Agreement on Fquity Line                       81



40
Appendix 1
Page 1
REVIEW OF MAJOR ECONOMIC SECTORS IN FIJI
A.  Primary Industry Sector
1.  Sugar
1.       Sugar accounts for about half of the value of Fiji's
agricultural production and contributes two-thirds of the value of total
exports. Sugarcane is grown on about 60,000 ha by about 21,000 farmers.
The b,lvested cane is purchased by the Fiji Sugar Corporation Limited
(MSCW- for crushing at its four mills . These mills engage about
4,000 workers during the crushing season (May - December). About 5 per
cent of the total output is consumed locally and the rest is exported.
2.       The area under sugar cultivation increased significantly
during the second half of of the 1970s. This was basically due to the
Government's provision of better extension services, increased drainage
facilities, subsidized fertilizers, legislation extending the lease
period of cane lands from 10 to 30 years and the Seaqaqa sugarcane
development project in Vanua Levu. As a result, annual sugar production
increased from 320,000 tons during PY1970-1975 to 470,000 tons in the
early 1980s.  Currently, around 250,000 t "y  are exported per year at a
favorable price under long-term contracts- , while the rest has to be
sold in the free market at a price which is less than one-third of the
long-term contract price and even less than the cost of production.
Therefore, the Government no longer encourages the expansion of cane
fields.
3.        The sugar industry experienced one of its most difficult years
in 1983 as sugar production declined to 276,000 tons due to cyclone
damage and drought. Owing to favorable weather condition in 1984 and
the measures taken by the Government for rehabilitation following the
damages in 1983, sugar production recovered to 480,000 tons in 1984.
Good weather conditions that prevailed during the 1985 planting season
had led to the projection of 490,000 tons of sugar production in 1985.
Damages caused by the recent two cyclones are likely to result in actual
production levels being lower than this figure by up to 5 per cent.
2. Other Primary Sector
4.        As a result of the low sugar price that has prevailed since
1981, the Government has been trying to diversify agricultural
production.- Copra is the second most important commercial crop in Fiji.
The rehabilitation and maintenance of coconut lands, however, have
17  FSC is owned by the Government (81.6 per cent), Fiji National
Provident Pund (9.9 per cent), Unit Trust of Fiji (1.4 per cent)
and other small shareholders.
2/  Fiji has long-term sugar sales contract with EEC, Malaysia and USA.
(Reference in text: Page 3, Para. 11)



41
Appendix 1
Page 2
generally been neglected. More than half of the coconut palms are over-
aged and yields are low because of lack of weeding and fertilizing.
5.        With a view to replacing imports of rice (constituting about
50 per cent of domestic consumption), the Government has been providing
incentives to grow rice. Due to favorable weather conditions and the
completion of irrigation schemes, rice production increased to 23,000
tons in 1984 compared with 16,000 tons in 1983. In addition, depressed
levels of sugar prices have resulted in some shift of cultivation from
sugar to paddy. While currently only about 400 to 500 families grow
rice as their main crop, the number is expected to increase with the
completion of several drain?,e and irrigation schemes, one of whicn is
being assisted by the Bank.-  It is the aim of the Goverment to
raise rice production to self-sufficiency within three to five years.
Cacao is still not an important crop in Fiji but Government policy is
geared towards its rapid development. Its annual production in 1984 was
250 tons but should increase over the next several years as the large
acreage planted during the late 1970s reaches bearing age. Government's
export diversification policy emphasizes the development of fruits and
vegetables. Price fluctuations and market restrictions in importing
countries, however, tend to discourage production and investment.
Fiji's livestock production is close to self-sufficiency. After several
years of continued growth, the commercial fish catch in the Fijian water
has declined in recent years. The forestry sector is considered to have
a great potential for development. Pine forests planted during
the mid-1960s (around 10,000 ha out of the total plantation area of
37,000 ha.) are now reaching maturity. The output from this source
should increase rapidly.
B.   Industrial Sector
6.        In Fiji, the industrial sector accounted for 12.2 per cent of
GDP and employed 15 per cent of the estimated work force in 1982. Sugar
milling was the most important industrial sector in Fiji and accounted
for 37.3 per cent of total industrial production in 1982. The
contribution of industrial production to GDP decreased to 11.3 per cent
in 1983 from 12.2 per cent in 1982 because of a 43 per cent decrease in
sugar milling production following the disastrous sugarcane harvest
during the year. However, in 1983 the manufacturing sector excluding
sugar realized a 9.3 per cent growth over 1982. This indicates that the
growth of the non-sugar industrial sector is not necessarily dependent
on the performance of the sugar industry.
7.        With a view to promoting non-traditional industries in Fiji,
the Government in 1981 created the Economic Development Board (EDB)
under the Ministry of Economic Planning and Development. EDB has been
assigned a central role towards promoting foreign and local investment.
It was intended that EDB would serve as a one-stop contact point for
providing potential investors with information and extension services as
I/   Loan No. 703-FIJ, Agricultural Development Project ($3.2 million)
approved on 6 November 1984.



42
Appendix 1
Page 3
well as facilitating investors' dealings with various ministries. Since
its inception, EDB has approved a total of 132 projects. The Government
has also instituted a number of incentives for potential investors with
no discrimination between foreign and domestic investors (see para 9).
8.        In the past, industrial development in Fiji has mainly focused
on import substitution industries based on imported raw materials.
However, to maximize the benefits accruing from industrialization on a
long-term basis, the Government has shifted its policy to give higher
emphasis to linkages with other sectors of the economy, especially
agriculture, forestry and marine resource development. Following the
change in its approach, the Government has formulated the following
priority listing unJar DP 8:
- High Priority Industries (Priority A)
i)   Industries based on local primary commodities
ii) Industries producing inputs required by primary and
other sectors
- Priority Industries (Priority B)
i) Industries producing essential items from imported raw
materials
ii) Industries producing goods for export from imported
raw materials
- Low Priority Industries
Industries based on imported raw materials producing non-
essential items.
9.        In order to maximize private investments in priority
industrial sectors, the Government provides various incentives depending
on the priority given to an industry. For high priority projects, the
exemption from income-tax is granted for up to five years from the start
of production and the Minister of Finance can approve a furt~pr
extension of income-tax concessions for another three years.-   Import
duties on plant and machinery are generally low in Fiji. However,
exemption of import duties can be granted by the Government depending on
the degree of expected contribution to local value added and exports.
New industrial projects are qualified for accelerated depreciation
allowances when substantial capital expenditure is involved. For non-
traditional industries, the Government also provides protection through
licensing and tariff.
1/  Currently the income-tax rate is 45 per cent for non-resident
company and 37.5 per cent for other companies.



43
Appendix 1
Page 4
10.      To be eligible for the concessions mentioned above, a
potential investor submits its application to EDB (see para 7) which is
a one-stop secretariat for coordination with various goverment
ministries and departments.  EDB appraises the proposal in consultation
with other ministries and department and submits its recommendations to
the Business and Industrial Development Committees (BIDC) for decision.
BIDC has representation from most government ministries and relevant
statutory bodies including RBF, PDB and EDB and is empowered to grant
the various concessions mentioned above.
11.      There are major constraints on industrial development in Fiji.
The small size of the local market, underdevelopment of related
industries, the long distance from major export markets and the scarcity
of trained manpower are considered to be important factors affecting
industrial development. However, Fiji has several advantages too for
industrial development. It has a stable political climate, relatively
lower labor costs compared with its major trading partners (i.e.,
Australia and New Zealand), various incentives offered by the Government
for new iW estments. free access of Fijian products to certain
countries-  and raw materials available from local agriculture and
forestry. Therefore, there are reasonable prospects for the development
of labor-intensive and resource-based industry. As Fiji is heavily
dependent on imports for a variety of consumer and capital goods, there
are also good opportunities for import substitution. For example, a
number of garment factories were established recently to
cater to markets in Australia and New Zealand and are operating
reasonably well. A large-scale coconut oil mill is under implementation
in Savusavu. A large-scale saw milling and woodchip complex will be
established in the near future as a joint venture between the Fiji Pine
Commission (holding 51 per cent equity) and-foreign investors with
production expected to commence in 1987. This project could bring
export earings of F$8 to F$10 milliorL per annum at current prices.
C.   Tourism
12.       Tourism contributes about 13 per cent of GDP and approximately
25 per cent of total foreign exchange earnings. In terms of foreign
exchange earnings, tourism is a close second to the sugar industry.
While tourism provides direct employment to only 6 per cent of the
labor force, its indirect contribution to employment is significantly
larger. The year 1984 was a remarkably successful year for tourism with
a record-breakinig 230,000 visitor arrivals and earnings of F$161 million
representing a 19 per cent increase which reflected a strong recovery
1/  Under the South Pacifie Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation
Agreement (SPARTECA) of July 1980 among Australia, New Zealand and
the South Pacific Forum Countries including Fiji, certain goods
produced in Fiji have unrestricted duty-free access to the
Australian and New Zealand markets.



44
Appendix 1
Page 5
from the Retback in 1983 caused by cyclone danage to tourism facilities.
The prospects of the tourism industry, In the nedimv-term, are good and
accordingly several new hotel projects have recently been approved to
expand the tourist accommodation capacity of the country.
D.  The Financial Sector
13.      The financial sector in Fiji is well developed and consists
of the Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF), six comuercial banks and three
non-bank financial institutions. The cnmmercial bAnks include the
Government-owned National Bank of Fiji (NBF) and five branches of
foreign banks: Bank of New Zealand. Westpac, AustraiUa and New Zealand
Banking Group, Barclay's Bank International and Bank of Baroda. The
three noa-bank finmcial institutions are Fiji Development Bank (CDB),
Fiji National Provident Fund (FNPF) and the Housing Authority. RBF
enjoys a great degree of autonomy from the Government and advises the
Government on its monetary as well as major economic policies. In
addition to tLe usual functions of central bank, REF is empowered to
issue its own bonds, borrow externally. supervise domestic and external
borrowing of the public sector and fix minimum deposit rates and maximm
loan rates for commercial banks. Commercial banks are obligated to
comply with the directives issued by RBF. However, FDB and FNPF are
outside the jurisdiction of RBF since they are established under special
laws.
-14.      Among the six comercial banks operating in Fiji, Westpac and
the Bank of New Zealand are by far the largest followed by the National
Bank of Fiji which accounts for 15 per cent of total commercial bank
deposits and loans. Most of the private sector credit demand
essentially for wholesale and retail trade is provided by the commercial
banks which maintain branches and sub-branches throughout the country.
At the end of 1984, total deposits with commercial banks stood at
F$453.6 million while loans outstanding. advances and bills discounted
by commercial banks amounted to F$327.0 million. Maximum lending rates
and minimm deposit rates to be charged by commercial banks are adjusted
from time to time by RBF on the basis of the liquidity position of the
economy. The ceiling on lending rates, as of 31 January 1985, was 13.5
per cent per annum and the minimum deposit rate of savings accounts was
6 per cent per annum.
15.      Apart from commercial banks, the Fiji National Provident Fund
(FNPF) is the most important institution for domestic resource
mobilization. FNPF was established in 1966 to provide benefits to its
members on retirement, death or incapacity. All employers and employees
of the public as well as private sector contribute 7 per cent of their
wages and salaries to FNPF. As of 30 June 1984, FNPF had 73,799 members
and FNPF's total .ssets amounted to F$49.2 million during FY1983/84.
Since the current pension payment obligations remain small, FNPF is
expected to remain as an important source of funds. Contributions to
FNPF have in_reased by about 66 per cent since 1980 and now represent
5 per cent of GDP.



45
Appendix I
Page 6
16.       FNPF's investment policy is to allocate 50 per cent of its
investible surplus to the Central Government and the Housing Authority,
20 per cent to public enterprises and 30 per cent to the private sector.
FNPF lends directly to private sector enterprises in amounts more than
F$250,TY0 for 10-15 years at an interest rate of 13.5 per cent per
annum.-   However, due to a recent shortage of suitable investment
opportunities in the private sector, FNPF's investments i loans to the
Government and public enterprises increased significantly to 63 per cent
as of 30 June 1984 as against 50 per cent permitted by the guidelines.
FNPF is the most important investor in FDB bonds.
E.  Financial Policy and its Implications to FDB's Operation
17.       On account of its conservative fiscal policy during the 1970s,
the Government required only limited financing during this period from
the banking and non-banking financial institutions and the growth of
credit was concentrated in the private sector. However, along with the
growing fiscal deficit and the implementation of large development
projects in the 1980s, the public sector required significant financing
from banking and non-banklng sources. The credit demand of the public
sector increased further in 1983 for the rehabilitation of damage from
the cyclone and drought during the year. For example, the total public
sector borrowing from FNPF increased from F$108 million as of end 1979
to F$325 million as of 30 September 1984. As a reflection of the upturn
in the economy, the credit demand of the private sector also remained
buoyant in 1984.
18.       Because of the high elasticity of imports in Fiji, the
expansion of credit put heavy pressures on the country's balAnce of
payments; and the foreign exchange reserves went qywn to as low as F$84
million at the end of the second quarter of 1984,'- which is the
lowest since 30 June 1979. The rapid increase in commercial lending in
1984, particularly to the non-priority sector has been causing concern
in view of the outlook for the balance of payments in 1985 and beyond.
RBF therefore introduced a tight money policy from the second quarter of
1984. RBF increased the Unimpaired Liquid Assets Ratio (ULAR) from 12.5
per cent to 15.0 per cent on 6 June 1984 and further to 18 per cent on 5
September 1984. The statutory reserve deposit ratio for commercial
banks was also increased from 5 per cent to 6 per cent effective
5 December 1984. At the same time, RBF has continued to stress on
commercial banks the need to give preference in lendinglyo priority
sectors like export-oriented industries and agriculture- . These
restriictions on commercial bank lending are expected to result in the
transfer of credit demand from commercial banks to FDB.
TT  Unlike FDB's loans whose average size is F$20,000, the usage of
of FNPF loans is mostly for large-scale real-estate development.
Therefore, FDB and FNPF are addressing different markets/customers
and thus supplement each other in meeting the credit requirements
of various sectors.
2/   The foreign exchange reserves increased to F$118 million as of
31 December 1984.



46
Appendix 1
Page 7
19.       In the past few years, the Government has taken several steps
to broaden the country's financial structure with a view to
accommodating the increased financing needs of the public sector.  In
Marc7h 19' the system of Treasury bill issues was changed from a fixed
price quotation to a market auction, which resulted in more attractive
yields.  In April 1982, two non-financial public enterprises, viz., the
Fiji Electric Authority (FEA) and FSC, 4=ich had traditionally obtained
loans from RBF, were authorized to issue promissory notes to raise the
necessary funds. In 1984 this authority was extended to the Housing
Authority. To encourage purchases by the commercial banks, taese
promissory notes were made eligible in meeting their unimpaired liquid
assets requirements. RBF encourages the flotation of bonds by public
enterprises to help meet their capital needs. FDB, PEA and Air Pacific
are public enterprises which have issued bonds. Most of these bonds
issues and short-term notes are purchased by FNPF and the commercial
banks.
20.       The increasing credit demand from public sector enterprises
and the commercial bankst tightened liquidity position have put
pressures on domestic interest rates. The interest rates on savings and
time deposits were increasing by 1.0 to 1.5 per cent and the yields on
most public sector securities increased by more than one percentage
point between 1982 and 1984. The interest rate on time deposits for
F$250,000 or over is negotiable between commercial banks and depositors
and the rate reached nearly 13 per cent which is close to the maximm
lending rate of 13.5 per cent in 1984. The maximum commercial bank
lending rates were raised by 1.5 percentage point to 10.75-13.5 per cent
in December 1981. This increase was also extended to non-bank
institutions with the exception of FDB's loans to the agricultural
sector which are still lent at a somewhat lower rate with a subsidy
provided from the Government budget.
F. Suva Stock Exchange Ltd.
21.       Suva Stock Exchange Ltd. (SSEL) is a wholly owned subsidiary
of FDB with a paid-in capital of F$20,000. SSEL s.arted operations in
June 1979 to provide a trading floor for shares following the successful
launching of a Unit Trust in 1978. SSEL has its own independent Board,
and maintains its own accounts; however, it is managed by FDB staff on
the basis of a fixed management fee adjustable on an annual basis since
the limited trade volume does not warrant employing its own staff.
22.       The listing requirements of shares at SSEL were modelled on
those adopted by the Australian Associated Stock Exchanges and need
sufficient disciosure of accounts of listed companies. Currently.
1/  RBF issued a guideline to commercial bank in January 1982 to
allocate 7.5 per cent of their loans to the agricultural sector.



47
Appendix 1
Page 8
SSEL's activities are limited to the management of the Exchange. SSEL
maintains files of annual reports and releases of listed companies,
which are available for perusal by the public; however, it does not
offer any investment advice to potential investors. SSEL's stock
quotations are reported daily in two major newspapers published in Suva.
23.       The volume of SSEL's share trade for a period of five
financial years and six months ended on 31 December 1984 is detailed in
the table below.
IY 9E1ft 30 Jime    1979/80  1981/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1M84/85'
No. of cmIanf
listed              7       8        9       8        7       7
Nb. of sbares iss
in milicm         34.5      35.1    39.7    35.6     34.0    37.0
No. of sbares traded
in'O00            211.9    61.6    64.8    36.4      35.4    59.0
Value of sbares taed
In F$'00O         190.2    54.5    53.7    40.0      24.3    70.0
a/  Six    s from 1 July to 31 Deer 1984.
24.       As of 31 December 1984, only seven companies with total issued
share capital of $37 million were listed at SSEL. SSEL's trade volume
had shown a downward trend up to FY1983/84. During the first six months
in F!1984/85, there was a sudden increase in trade volume although the
volume of trade was still not more than F$70,000. The Mission considers
that the growth of the share market is impeded by two major factors.
First, the public still prefers holding savings with financial
institutions to share investments. This is largely because of their
unfamiliarity with share investments and the relatively high interest
rates offered by commercial bAnks on deposits. Second, most local
companies are not interested in listing their shares on the Exchange.
As of 31 December 1984, there were 48 public companies (companies with
more than 12 shareholders according to the Companies Act of Fiji)
registered in Fiji. Some of the public companies could be listed at the
Exchange if the Government offers adequate incentives in taxation.
However, it will take quite some time to see an active stock exchange
develop In view of the relatively small size of the economy.
F.  The Private Sector and Investment Climate in Fii
25.       Fiji maintains a basically private sector-oriented economy.
The Government's involvement in economic activity and development
mainly consists of provision of infrastructure, direction of economic
growth through the establishment of indicative sectoral growth cargets,
establishment of incentives to assist the private sector iu meeting
these targets and limited ownership of resources considered essentia'l in
meeting social development objectives. State-ownership and contwr.



48
Appendix 1
Page 9
of enterprises is therefore restricted to 68 statutory bodies, most of
which are involved in infrastructure activities such as electricity,
ports, drainage and other non-profit oriented government services. The
Government owns financial institutions such as RBF, FDB, NBF, FNPF and
Housing Authorities although the banking sector is dominated by the
activities of the five foreign owned commercial banks. Commercial
non-banking operations owned by the Government are restricted mainly to
Fiji Sugar Corporation, Fiji Pine Commission and Pacific Airways. In
each case, there exists some strong market or social justification for
these enterprises retaining Government ownership. The private sector on
the other hand controlled as of 31 December 1984 3,230 private companies
and 48 public companies, most of which are engaged in manufacturing and
service sector activities.
26.       Apart from its philosophic comnitment to a private enterprise
economy, the Government faces an important finAncial constraint on its
further involvement in the ownership of resource. Despite tight
budgetary control, the Government's fiscal deficit has followed a
growing trend during the last several years (see para 17) and under
these circumstances, it is not in a position to extend its capital
expenditure activities outside of the key infrastructure and support
areas for which it is responsible. Accordingly, the private sector
including investors from overseas has been and will continue to be the
major source of industrial and commercial investment funds. The
Government provides a range of incentives to private investors in the
industrial sector (see para 9).
27.       It has been the Government's policy to maxim-ie foreign
investments. Fiji maintains an open economy to the extent that foreign
investments are allowed in various sectors which exclude those where
foreign investment is considered socially undesirable. Foreign
investors are treated on an equal basis compared with local investors in
terms of provision of the concessions.  There is no celing on the
proportion of foreign shareholding in companies; the Government
encourages joint ventures in order to stimulate local entrepreneurship,
however, foreign investors can hold up to 100 per cent of shares without
any disadvantage.  Repatriation of capital which has been introduced
from overseas sources through the local banking system or recorded with
RBF is assured and there are no restrictions on the remittance of
dividends, profits, interest or royalties provided local tax clearance
has been obtained for such remittance.
28.       In summary, the Mission has found that economic activity in
Fiji is led by the private sector in accordance with supportive
government policies, incentives and activities. Fiji has a relatively
open economy which encourages foreign investment and this situation is
expected to remain over the medium to long term.



49
Appendix 2
Structure of-Interest Rates in Fiji
During the Period 1979-84
(In per cent per annum)
1979    1980    1981    1982   1983    1984
Central Monetary Authority
Minimum lending rate             6.50    7.50    9.50   10.50  10.50   11.00
Deposit rate      a,             3
Commercial banks-              3.00    3.50    3.50    3.50   3.50    3.50
Other depositors
1 - 3 months                 4.50    4.50    6.00    6.00   6.00    6.00
3 - 6 months                 5.00    5.50    6.50    6.50   6.50    6.50
6 months or more             5.75    6.25    7.25    7.25   7.25    7.25
Commercial Banks
Loan rates
Maximum                       10.50   12.00   13.50   13.50  13.50   13.50
Average (estimate)             9.50    9.75   11.95   12.84  12.87    u.a.
Deposit rates
Savings deposits               4.50    4.50    6.00    6.00   6.00    6.00
Time deposits
1 - 3 months                 4.50    4.50    6.00    6.00   6.00    6.00
3 - 6 months                 5.0c    5.50    6.50    6.50   6.50    6.50
6 - 12 months                5.75    6.25    7.25    7.25   7.25    7.25
1 - 2 years                  6.50    7.00    8.00    8.00   8.00    8.00
2 - 3 years                  7.25    8.00    9.00    9.00   9.00    9.00
3 years and longer            -      8.50   10.00   10.00  10.00   10.00
-bl
Public sector securities (yield)-'
Treasury bills                   5.32    5.57    6.44    6.07   6.63    7.00
Three-year bonds                 7.00    7.60    9.00    9.00   9.00    9.00
Five-year bonds                  7.40    8.50    9.40    9.40   9.40   10.00
Ten-year bonds                   7.90    9.10   10.45    9.45   9.45   11.00
Promissory notes
Fiji Sugar Corporation          -       -       -      7.17   9.45   10.00
Fiji Electricity Authority      -       -       -      6.98   7.73    8.00
a/  Paid on statutory reserve deposits of commercial banks.
b / End-of-year data.
(Reference in text: Page 5. Para. 18)



50
Appendix 3
Fiji Development Rank
Schedule of Current and Proposed Interest Rate Changes
(As of 7 February 1985)
Present (Z)   Proposed (f)-/
Agricultural:
-  Land Development                         11.0           11.0
(Subsidy up to $20,000                  5.5            5.5
- Tractors and Implements                   11.5           11.5
(Subsidy up to $8,000)                    3.5            3.5
-  Trucks                                   11.5           11.5
-  Housing                                  11.5           11.5
(Subsidy up to $6,000)                    3.5            3.5
-  Land purchase                            11.5           11.5
(Subsidy up to $10,000)                   4.5            4.5
-  Drainage Boards                          10.75          10.75
-  Fishing                                  11.0           11.0
(Subsidy up to $20,000)                   5.5            5.5
Commercial Loans to Fijians Scheme          11.0           11.0.
(Subsidy)                                    1.0            1.0
Industrial Loans (excluding those bclow)  12.5-13.0        13.5
Buses, Trucks and Heav7y Equipment          13.5           13.5
Commercial Loans to Others                13.0-13.5        13.5
Joint Venture Scheme                        12.0           12.5
(Indigenous Fijians and Non-Fijians
partners, up to $200,000)
Discharge of Agricultural Debts             11.5           11.5
al As per recent decision of FDB's Board of Directors.  However,
the new rates cannot be charged until the expiry of Government
price control regulations in August 1985.
bl  The Government provides a subsidy direct to agricultural
borrowers to reduce the real interest cost of FDB development
loans.
(Reference in text: Page 10, Para. 30)



51                          Appendix 4
Fiji Development Bank
List of Members of the Board of Directors
(As of 31 December 1984)
Date of First  Expiry Date of
Name               Appointment       Appointment     Background
L. N. Cupit              1/12/82         30111/85    Previously Chief
(Chairman)                                           Executive of Fiji
Ltd., a multi-national
trading corporation.
Owner of a large private
agricultural develop-
ment company.
L. Qarase                3/03/82         2/03/86     Civil Servant in
(Managing Director)                                  Co-ops; Finance.
Commerce & Industries
& Public Service
Commission.
Ratu 0. Bokini          13/04/82        12/04/86     Field Superintendent
Fiji Sugar Corporation.
K. Buksh                 1/04/83        31/03/86     Civil Servant in
Ninistry of Finance
Budget Division.
T. J. Cornish           12112180        11/12/85     Retired Civil Servant
In District Adninis-
tration, now Cobra
farmer and Chairman of
Air Transport Licensing
Board.
N. Drauna                1/10/83        30/09/85     Land Agent with the
NLTB. Currently is
Deputy General Manager
of NLTB.
K. G. Hari               1/06/76        31/05/85     Managing Director of
family diversified
business group.
E. D. Khan               1/10/82        30/09/85     Business Consultant.
Previ"usly worked with
Citibank in Fiji and
Bank of British Columbia.
N. P. Singh             13/04/82        12/04/86    Director of Economic
Development Board.
Previously Civi'
Servant in Commerce
and Industries Department.
(Reference in text: Page 16, Para. 53)



PUU OIYILOWMN? SMNK
flMO*I4ZATI@N SIUTAUR9
lAs of 3 im m IM
B OARD        j
0-
01
n
R                      I                                          |
0,                                               L
a                                                           a
INUPA   eAINI          rSI                         .  '       , @A                              '
4 8 i t      gl                t      lSt                          i      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
0  uivqiau   ItYMIOS    UWISEN                                                                   ~~~~~th
0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e



FIJI DEVELOPMENT BANK
Staff Analysis by Division and Grades
(As of 31 December 1984)
I    II    III    IV    V    VI    VII    VIII    IX    X        TOTA;
Managerial                          1    2                               1      1                      5
Audit & Inspection Division                    1                         1                             2
Loan Recovery Unit                                                       2                             2
National Operations Division                   1       1     2           3               2             9
Administration Division                        1       4          2      1      2       12            22
m     Business Development Division                   1      2           4                     3             10
Finance & EDP Division                         1       3          1             4        5            14
rt    Special Loans Scheme Division                   1      I           1     6               2             11
R     Securities Division      .                             1           1            2        5              9
00    Industrial Division                             1      1                 4               2              8
Agricultural Division               _1                 2                 4     _1    _                 8
Sub-total                                   8             2    9    22       9      32     -      100
Branches:
:4       Suva                                                I      1    2     5               3             12
iLautoka                                            1     1           5              3             10
Labasa                                              1                2               2              5
*        Seaqaqa                                             1                 3               2              6
Ba                                                  1                 2              2              5
Rakiraki                                            1                 3              2              6
Sigatoka                                            1                4               2              7
Nausori                                             1                 3              2              6
Savusavu                                            1                2               2              5
Trainees                                                             2                              2
Sub-total                          -     -         9      2    2    31       -      20      -      64
TOTAL                               1    2     8      24     4   11    53       9       52           164



54
Akppeni 7
Page 1
FMuDVWPE~T BANK
SLATEMET  OF OPERATING SUWAEGY AN) CENERAL BUSINESS POLICY
I. THE BAK
1.      The Fiji Development Bank (CEB) was established in accordance
with the pvisions of the Fiji Developmnt Bank Arct approved in
Decmer 1966, as amrded, as a development financ   institu   for the
direct support of Fiji's ecncic development. E)B is aa autnru
statutory body with its oawn Board of Directors, whose nbers are
appointed by the Minister of Finance. It conducts its activities within
the framwork of the Govemi3t's economic plans, policies and priorities.
II. BASIC OPERATIf S]AIY
2.      FDB's operating strategy includes the following primary elmnts:
a. To provide loa  financing primarily to agricultral and
industrial enterprises operating in Fiji iu a marier that
will su t the realizatimn of official natimal econic planing
goals and establish a well balanced lending program in the major
ecC%Cic sectors;
b. To take equity participati in business enterprises and joint
veures with the aim of eventully disbting of such
participatin in suppo  of wide participation of the general
pub-lic and institutnal investors i3'. the ownership of business
terrie in Fiji;
c. To contribute to and paratx in the G's econcndc
planing processes;
d. To contribute to the natimnal developmnt process tbrough
increased activity in project itific.tion, detmnation of
project feasibility  and assistance in project 3zpltaticn;
e. To promote the planning and developnt of supervised lending
sches;
f. To review the need for and, where appropriate, to prcxte
developmnt of auxiliary financing facilities in Fiji, such
as capital equpxLxent leasing;
g. To fiish constructive business development and business
managemnpt counsel to actual and prospective entrepreneUrs
and managers in Fiji;
1/ The Policy Stateient was originally adonted by FDB Board in Mrch 1974
and was  iended on 21 Decenber 1983 folo    the rec atis of
the consultants under the fourth Bank tecical assistance.
(Reference in text: Page 19, Para. 62)



55                       Appendt 7
Page 2
h. To collaborate ith and assist other statutory bodies
in the planning and financing of development projects
and enterprises; aid
i. To establish specific sbort and medium term objectives each
year by major economic sector.
III. SCCE OF OPEPAaTIONS
3.      FDB will provide financial assistance to private sector and publiC
sector enterprises, i each case against security and/or guaranteeS
acceptable to EDB  .nagemit, in the following forms:
o  Mediun and Iong term loans.
a  ShorL term ulrking capital advances in
associatian with medium and lcng term loans.
FDB will also provide guarantees to all classes of enterprise as it
csiders approprate T ad f-hancially sound.
FDB will take equty positi ns in all classes of enterprise with the
express purpose of subsequantly distributing shares tbus acqpired to the
general public and institutional investors. In association with equity
investmat, FMJB will also underwrite equity issues.
Other related support and assistance that FDB will provide includes
assistance to entrepreneuTs and managers in asceining project
feasibility, in selecting appropriate acconting and contmrl systems,
in assessing operating perfo e  and in ident   appropriate sources
of furtber external advice and assistance.
FB will actively promte the estlish t of new projects and the
fonilation of   enterprises iJn collabration   th the Economc DIvelopzent
Board (EDB), other statutury bodies or subsidiaries thereof, Governmst
agencies and private o anizations.
FlB's operations will be based oa the followig setoral considerations:
A. Agriclre
4.      FDB w3ll make loans to individual farmers, farmers'  cooperatives
and corporate entities. In extending such loans, FDB will give priority to
devElo!mental projects in agriculture and to supervised lending scbemes.
5.      FDB may provide fmance to assist in the acquisition of agr-
cultural land where this is in support of agricultural development
projects. FDB wkill give priority in relation to the purchase of fishing
vessels and eqmipnint to those projects which have good prospects for
expansion and development in the fisheries field.



56
B. Industry and CamSexce
6.      FDB will make mediun and long term loans for ivesmmt in fixed
assets and to meet pernent worldng capital requiret-s in industrial
enterprises. It my s       t  such assista    by providing short tem
advaces to cover t    y  w g capital requiremnts.
7.      FDB will make loans to       al enterpies for the acquisitimn
of fixed assets only.
C. Industrial and   e ia loans to Fijians
8.      To give those of Fijian race better  pornity to engage in
industrial and camril activities, FDB will extend medium and long
tem loans to Fijians in catectici with viable indistrial and camlrcial
projects and will provide workdg capital adances for such projects.
These loans will be exteded mn a cncessioay ts and, in cases where
Gwerrmit guarantees are applicable, with reduced sec=rity reutiremts.
FDB Wil aso finance ca the sme terms joint ventures betwe Fijians
and no-Fijians where Fijians are the effective beficaries of not less
than 25 per cent of the equity of such venes.
IV.     WHERM POLICIES
9.      In providing assistance, the Bank sball give preference to
entrises which will:
(a) ccute effectively to b dg  the basis of local,
(b) reduce ince d       ties;
(c) utilize doeEstic raw materials;
(d) have a high export potential of inprt substitutio;
(e) make use of labr intensive tecbnologies;
(f) introduce new tecnologies;
(g) cotrP  to a diversifiatim of the econony; and
(h) create opprtuities for the small emerging eitrepreneUrs.



57                               7
Page 4
V. GENERAL }PICIES AND
10.     Financial assistance wil be provided cly for projects which
appear to be ec   a ally and     ially viable and finnAlly
profitable. Special attenti  will be given to the quality of   amen
o the ente and mwrket prospects of the f project.
11.     Applicants requesting financial ass   ce form FDB shal be
required to suhnit the project appication in writing. FDB may provide
assistance to loan aplicants as follws:
a. Assistance in the E     tion of project speficat
and feasibility studies;
b. Referral of applicant to acperts ond/or soumes of
infortimn relating to teir projects;
c. Advic and assistance in the selectio  and installation.
of appropriate accunting books and recrds and related.
oeting controls; and
d. Initial gidancein the        atia i of periodic statents
and reports.
12.     Applicants shall be reqired to finance a reasonable porticn of
the total project cost fr  ther am resouces to ensure that the total
financial   ie     ts for the successful imlemetationn of the project
are available.
13.     Ioas wi be disbursed taldg into accont the prcmter's au
financial contribution against proper doctwtatim and in line with the
requireamits of the iuvesammt schedule of the project.
14.     FDB shall appropriately servise the use of its funds, the
progress of the project financedr and the perface of the enterprise
and ensure that remedial action is prap-tly taken if andwhen problem
arise. When necessary, FDB will endeavor to provide the necessary services
to such enterprIses or it will refer them to oth  appropriate and available
sources of assistance.
15.     The repayment period of loans, including grace period, will be
de         in accord   with the nature and individal circamtaices of
the projects.
16.     Th1e financial assistance frmn  DB may be used to cailt that
of other lenders. ln cases wbere the requested financi  assistance
e,reeds the limits of the Bank's lending capacity, the Bank may consider
joint financing ar ents.



58                   Appendix 7
Page 5
VI. FINACIAL   DEN
17.     The rates of interest applicable to the various types of loans
will be determined and reviewed by FDB from tinme to time, in the light
of development in the capital market with due consideration to the cost
of the FDB's cwn borrowxrbgs from dcmestic and other sources.
18.     FDB will secure its loans by appropriate collateral coverage
and guarantees from its borrowers, in accordance with sound banking
practices, but in doing so the Bank will have due regard to its develop-
mnntal functions in tne Fiji economy.
19.     The Bank wi not carry the foreip exhang risk on its debts
repayable in foreign debts repayable in famign currency. In the event
the Governmeet or its agEncies are not prepared to bear the fc!reiga
ehang risk relating to its (FDBs) repayment of dabts in fozei4p currency
such as a risk will be passed on to the Bank's borrowers.
20.     Except for the purpose of safegparding its  irwestment, EDB wil
not seek a controllin  interest in any enterprise in which it bas
invested. FDB will not nally papate directly ca a daily basis
in the -   at of an enterprise in which it bolds equity interest,
but it woud expect to nrionate repstative as members of the Board
of Directors of the  terprise to safeguad its interests and to contri-
bute to the success of the entrprise. As a rule, the FDB's equity parti-
c:ipaticx shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the paid up capital
stock of an enterprise. In the case of joint ventures and seleted projects
deemed to be of naticnal inportance, FDB my invest in equity participation
up to 49% of the paid up capital stoDck tbereof.
21.    FDB's equity investamnt shall serve mainly as a catalytic agent
for the establisibmat of new enterprises and will normally dispose of
such equity investzits as soon as this becomes ferasible and a fair
price caa be obtanied tberefrm. In all cases, FDB wi  nmke every effort
to dispose of such equity inwestnts vithin five years of its date of
acquisition tereof."
22.     FDB will not norlly caoit to a single enterprse, in the form
of share capital more than ten per cent(lOZ) of its unipaired paid-in
capital, earned surplus and resermes. The total equity ivestents of
the Bank shall not exceed, at any tinre, the aggregate am. mt of its oam
uni=paired paid-in capital, earned surplus and free reserves.
23.     The BVnk's total conuitments in any single entrpise in whatever
form, i.e. loans, equity participations  guarantees or a conb,inatimn
thereof, will not normally exceed fifteen per cent (15%) of the s.um of
its uiinpaired paid-in capital, earned surplus and free reserves.
24.     The total ccxntmEntt of the Bank in any single non-agricultural
enterprise will not exceed at any time 65Z of the total assets of the



59
App& 7
Page 6
etrise  inluding tbe Banik's Om investment. This limit may go up to
eighty per cent in t     projects Meritng speCal considertn. For
agricultural projects the Bank's total conmtment will not exceed eigbty
per cent of total assets exept for projects meritig special consideratim
wbere an    leale ase of land is an essential feature. These limit
may be exceeded in cases where the loan will be adequately secured becamse
additional securities over assets not foniing part of the project are
available.
- 25.     In the case of  o rial Loans to Fijians, there will be no
limitatin on the loan to be provided, the sole detning factor being
the Bank's assessment of the   nc, tecical and ma         t viability
of the project.
26.     In view of the risks inuolved in long-term financing the Bank
wi  exercise prudence im          debt so as to  uintnain at all ts a
well-balanced financ-ial strutUire. The Bank Wil limit its bo ng to
ensure that its outstandi  long-tr   debts at ay time shall not exeed
the e    alent of three (3) tinzs the sum of its inpaired paid-in
capital, earned surplus and free reserves.
27.     In mnagim  its portfolio, the Bank will endeavr to diversify
its loa  and imes  in terms of type of industries, location and
sectors of industries being financed.
VI. ACCOT ING
28.     The Bank will meit   accunting records adequate to reflect its
business operations and affairs in ac    e with generally accepted
accountig principles and standards.
29.     The Bank will engage a qualified and  e         ptiblic accountan
to audit its books and accomts every year.
30.     Tie Bank wil anually make appropriate allocations to a provision
for protectio  against bad debts and iesets in line with sie and
qualit of the Bank's loan and equy portfolio until such provision equals
five per cent (5%) of the Banik's portfolio. PDB shall transfer all its net
portrolio or reserv fund until such reserve equals 50% of FDB paid-in capital.
VI.  REVISIM, OF POLICE
31.      Tiis Statement of General Dusiness Policies has been approved by the
Bank's Board of Directors; any revision of the Statezt sball reauire the prior
apxnmrl of tw thirds of the MEimbers of the Board of Directors of the Bank.



60                               7
Fage 7
FM rI ZEUPEN BARK
POEICIES C(N ~3E!D] FS=A1
GEL POLICIC
1.   The Fiji Deveo nt B    Act prowides autiority for the Bak to
invest in stocks, sbares, bonds and debentres issued by ccmpanies
and other specified institutions.  In general it is Bak policy to
take up equity in new and e3dstirg projects   ihh cbaieale
eccmic benefits for Fiji and wbere the proponents cannt raise
sufficient equity capital    es.  n addition the Bank bas
prchas.ed share held by foreign itexrests in Fiji-based capanies
which are of national    oac.
2.   As a general rule the Bank's equity            would not exceed
25 per cent of the paid-up capital of the recipient cpy.
3.   The Bank's assesmet criteria for equity ints are the same
as for loan proposals: finanial viality and ecaarmic benefits
are the inportant factors.
I" TJEIE3 HED BY FIJI rEVEMR  BA  AS AT 31.03.84
4.   The Aex of tbis paper gives details of shares held by the Bark.
Tn additign to this list, the Bank has recently a    U,419
shares in Barns Philp (SS) Ccxpy Limited at 1-80 per sbare.
5.   The Bark made its first equity inut i   iji Indhtries Limited
in 1969. Since that time, the Bank has not been particlarly active
in this area of ivestnmt. it is also cleth that
resources rave not bena allocated to support a virus equity
investu~t programz. This aspect was h          by the 1983
AIM review of the Baik.
6.   Based  am our    erice to date, equity fnacing, prticully in
- private        has been kept on a fairly low profle for the
following reasons:
(a)  FJOB could lose its indepedence as a 1      to the ccalpny
i.e. having committed equity partica   in the capany,
the Bank could be swayed to assist the capany with new or
aditional finance aginst its better judgut. Also, ir
diffiult times, the coany could leaa beavily am the Bank
to solve its financial probles.
Cb)  MB may need to appoint an e    ren d officer to the company's
Board and this could create a lot of  mcessary iuvolvement
and.perbaps result in p  ctive tie being lost to the Bank.
1/  Adopted by FMB's Board of Directors an 31 May 1984.
(Reference in text: Page 12, Para. 38)



61                         _
page 
(C)  Being a minor sbareolder, FM wil bave little control over
the ccpaay in so far as decision makidng is cocxerned and as
wil as the day-to-day ruming of the business.
(d)  The prospects of dividend payments is usUlly lw and it is
ndezrstood that FDB wvoulddispose of its in   t once the
caip my beccms profitable. Hence, guaranteed steady return
on i !es1t is doubtful unli.ke pridingloan finance for
wbich we are assured of a definite reu   o invetment.
I1PCKrANCE OF E(=Y INVESDM
7.   Equity investnent is considered an essential finction of a develnpment
bank. There are ocs      wh ere it is not sfficient to provide loan
finance only becamue the caipany is ime d-capitalised.  Pence, a
mixture of equLty and loan finance May be the appropriate answer to a
productive development project in such economic sectors as manufacturirng,
forestry, miniTg, tmrism, engineering and agro-industries.
8.     Ur re, the Bark's equity imIestts can assist to bring together
dai~stic and foreign investors in joint ventures, as w1 as help
transfer the man       and tectlvical skills bich uslualy accompay
direct fori4a  ines ts. In additim, a nnre active role in
eqity imwet by the Bank wil faci1itate th  de             of
dcmestic capital matrets and assist in iuzroving the investment
climate in Fiji.
1NVES~FI WDRCAST
9.   The ADB forecast of MEB's equity iuvestment activity over a five
year period is gLven as ruder:
Fiscal Year               1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Opening Balance (F$'000)    790   900  1200  1500  1800
New Equity bnvestmnt       210   400   400   400   500
Disposal (at cost)         100   100   100   100   100
Closing Balance            900  1200  1500  1800  2200
Realised Capital Gain      100   100   100   100   100
The above figures suggest mxch  r actime role by the Bank in
equity investments.
EQUIT
10.  Manag t supports the AEB view that the Bak sbould be unre active
in the field of equity istmen t. Directors will recall that in
tbe recent re    izatio  of the Back a new Equity Tnvesmnt Depatm
has been established within the Ind-til tivisiv . Thei1 BakTs



62                              7
Pageg
general policy on equity inestwent is broad enough and has the
flexibility to allaw it to be mure active in this area of activity.
However, some glidelinps need to be establisbed.
11.  It is, therefore, reccxuiwded that the Bank should have a uDre
active role in equity invest   under the foll.uing guidelines:
-    a,jectives
* To provide equity funds not otherise available for new and
existing EijiLbased companies engaed in ecanczdc sectors
such as na     tn,  forestry, tolri, engine    and
agro-nistries. The projects must be financilly viable
and eccmdcafly beneficial to Fiji.
* To acquire shares beld by foreign interests in Fiji-based
ventures which are of national inpoance.
Fuind
* An a.int of $200,000 will be avaiable annually to finance
the scbeme.
= The Bank's total  IlveME:t in equity investme= be linnited
to 10 per cent of the Bank' s paid-up capital     oiated
profiEs and free reserves.
* Normally, nDt re than $25,000 will be inuvested by way of
equity in any one venture.
= Ioans wil be avalable in additim, in acordance with our
esting policy.
FMB's equity wold not normally exceed 50 per cent of the
total equity and preferably not i re tban 25 per cent.
* l;vestments beyond 25 per cent would generally be acanied
by insistence on Board reprsent.
* A chartered aconant acceptable to the Bank mist be egaged
in al cases to handle the books of the  terprise and report
6 monthly on the business. klm2al accomts mst be adted too.
* The Bark's equity would be available for sale to the other
shareolders or their naninees (or in cases 'were a wider
shaeholding is considered, to outsiders) at our valuation
once the cany is establisbed.
* The Bak's approval would be required for all salary, dividend
and other payments/benefits to sharebolder or their famiies.
12. The purchases of shares held by foreign interests in existing Fiji-
based cczpanies be assessed on. a case by case basis.



63                                     Appdix s
Fiji &B_lcom Bf
smmiww of Qmeram
_        _                                           tF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cS'000)
NGeas:                               199di1d 30 .1ate   _  196O8  1982  1982/83   *  913/84-  15..)
Year ~  ~      ~     N /ra 30i Jun                  li         -    N. hwh
-~ u
,pp l 11  *  1.473  7,9I1  2.059   8.665  1.590   6.646  1.950   8.367    629   3.149
I      Xmbaruuutu          -    8,003    -      71SO    -      6,536    -      5,839  - -     2,858
aMts 2/                    -    5,311    -      4.978    -     5,38B    -     5.493    -      2,187
:    ?inadfrg~/       4,563 22,S56  5.093  27.55  S3    3L.416  5.810  35.26  5.964  53.189
206  7.029    195   6,732    235   7.943    243  11.779    329   7.266
Fd1aLarasutn               -    5,33}   -       4.113    -     7,270    -     7.472    -      5,614
Iincpmmnt 2/               -    5.1R8    -      5.584    -     5.894    -     7.336    -      3.506
Owutruidiz3[j              529 18.447    573  20.326    622  24.656    679  27.895    7,5  32.445
srdaL  Tn.. to F1j1i
AppcOvnls                  403  1.938    410   1,403    342   1.562    332   2.499    205   1.021
DLdru. w _ ,.---    1,430    -                  1,177    -     1,501    -     1;199    -        878
Rpaymines 2/               -    1.S23    -      1,313    -     1r545    -      1.639    -       368
orrkrAnalnif             1.114  S559  1.057   5,617  2.029   5,884  1,035   7.033  1.113   7.499
Staff iT.w
Apptoval                   240    408    217     555    239      464    268     459    162      533
rmabzm  n,ct               -      398    -       565    -        358    268     452    -        316
Fgpa)mmt 21 3/             -      -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -
165    726    180     936    206   1,351    210   1,577    328   1.857
TotaBl e-w       %mcat ry
- PLVMUS  2.322 17r273  2,881  17,3S5  2.406  16,615  2.793  23.104- 1.25  11.968
-   15.164    -    13.005    -    15.665    -    14,962    -       9.666
-   11,942    -    11.880    -    12,827    -    14.468    -       6.S61
Otatuadfry/                 6,370 47,228  6.903  53,934  7.179  63.307  7.734  71,761  8.160  94.990
4Snxrnsl  -  70    -  -  -  45    -   100  4   4,318
DL- *-bu _rs mtc                      70    -                       45    -        100      3   4;Z3
Dlvidoru and sale prcm       -       10     -        28              so    -         3      2      541
OsCbSntaig                     14    ES696    3     868     11      833     U      930      -   5.466
1i     bdig principal. hteut md otlw durgs.
/ ktg 1983/84 ma addltinl S185.2 .&Illn mm admcud to Fiji S*            m
ru assit w.rd zbLlcatim of cm P3          ad _ednwy dC           l
lm  Oww C     wing 198k3
.3/ Rqaa).ncs Incle in mcml of _da1  loMui to F1jai.
(Reference in  text:  Page 21, Para. 68)



64                                 Appendix 9
Fi.i  lvkt Ui
Aulysl  of Lam Apwrals by              Sectors and by PagIai
(F$'(XD)
1980/81       1981182       1982/83       1983/84   1984I85(6Bws)
Year Bided 3D Jie               No.   h       No. hAmmt   No.  Amut   No. A ,zazm  No. Aont
Beef                                   86    812    92    946    48    294    62    526 21           156
Dairy  d Pip                           32    310    34    254    45    707    38    408  16    204
Fruits and vegetables and rice        216  1,732   429  1,813   545  2,111   520  2,433  156  1,002
Poultry                                14    175    20    199    14    451    16    256   5           78
Sugarc   - Seaq pa                    189  1,255    76    999    74    494 i36    891 262  1,142
- otber arm                578  2,150 1,062  2,710   5B4  1,669   829  2,761
Fiskhn                                237    426   261    930   232    600   320    825 150    1,70
Otbers                                116    778    91    697    46    291    36    234  19           96
ner=   o Bond                           5    290      4    112      2      30      3      33   -    -
9ub-Tota1                           1,473  7,918 2.069  8.660 T1,90  6,647  1,950  8,367  629  3,148
Ixxhzstdal/Service Sector T    a/
Thibbr, MBnfdng & QuErrySsg            31  2,045    14    227    21    729    23    767  10    956
84  2,753    74  3,327    85  3,389    78  6,051  63  3,136
*       }nstruedax                     36    973    28  1,122    20    994    19  1,498   8   1,135
Turism                                 17    519    14    210    11    839    12    398   6    300
t       _B I;! I gm                   245  1,997   233  2,203   200  2,270   179  2,216  74    539
InanmU ll T                195    635   185    922   231  1,264   262  3,334  170  2,211
investment                              1     25    57    124       9      19      2      14   2      11
Su-Total                              609  8,947   605  8,135   577  9,504   575  14,278 333  8,28
Total ftpwu3ls                      2,082  16,86  2,674  16,795 2,167  16.151 2,525 22,645  962 11,436
C401we_cial         loans to PL UM
Thtler. Minlgmd f4m=yft                12    342      4      50     6    152       4     134   3      25
9    126      5      20     6     164      9     140  12   ,L52
5     85      7      59     -       -      4     161   -       -
Tawim                                   7      6      8      19     5      11      3       9   2       2
174    699   171    604   111    401    90    419  52    243
195    635   158    527   205    815   216  1,104  131    519
Ilvestiiat                              1     25    59    124       9      19      2      14   2      11
Su-Total                              403  1,918   4110  1.403   342  1,562   328   1,981  202    952
Suva and East Viti levu               592  5,165   713  7,063   729  7,561   704 10,621  363  4,686
West Vii laew                         787  6,920  1.459  6,269   925  5.142  1,075  7,695  271  3,937
Vam  Ievla                            703  4,780   592  3,463   478  3,327   600  3,698 248  2,282
Outer Is s                                                    -    35    121   146    631  80    531
Total Aprovals                        2,082 16,865 2,674  16,795 2,167  16,151 2,525  22,645  962 11,436
a(Referelc  i         /n te t: age 275
(Reference in text:  Page 23. Para. 71; Page 24, Para. 75)



Fiji Development Bank
Analysis of Loan Approvals by Loan Size and Maturity
WF$000)
6 mos. to
Year ended 30 June                 1980/81            1981/82             1982/83           1983/84        31 Dec.1984
No.   Amount       No.   Amount        No.   Amount      No.  Amount    No.  Amount
t    Agriculture
2    Up to 1,000                        479       286      686       411       616       378     693       425    225       134
m     1,000 -   5,000                   581    1,599    1,036    2,520         674    1,666      825    2,191    220       561
5,001 -  10,000                  236    1,665        207    1,424        180    1,296      266    1,881    106       753
10,001 -  25,000                      158    2,355       109    1,670         96    1,543      140    2,105       67   1,018
rt   25,001 -  50,000                    12      434        11       485        14       560       16      549       6     212
50,001 - 100,030                     4      339         3       230         6      409        8       498       5     470
Over 100,000                         3    1,240         7    i,925          4       795        2      718      _      -
Total                        1,473    7,918    2,059    8,665    1,590    6,647   1,950    8,367    629   3,148
n~ Industrial & Commercial
W.   Up to 1,000                        192       113       208       157      148       107      132       81      70       38
1,001 -   5,000                  147       405       162       446       180      464      192       517    117      340
5,001 -  10,000                   103      761        87       633        97      731       80       610     40      309
*    10,001 -  25,000                    85    1,403        89    1,021         67    1,028       61       953      41     694
>    25,001 -  50,000                    49    1,871        28    1,035         35    1,308       46    1,682       25     960
50,001 - 100,000                    24    1,891        26    1,739         32    2,315       35    2,574       23   1,679
Over 100,000                         9    2,503        15    3,099         18    3,551       29    7,861       17   4,268
Total                          I09    8,947        615    8,130        577    9,504      575   14,278    33   8,288
By Maturities
1 year                                                323       513       300      649      298       497     -       -
1 - 2 years                                           423       733       404      793      398       774    311      561
3 - 4 ye.irs                                          819    3,133        596    3,451      712    3,204    287   2,681
S-_ 9 yeatrs                                          920    4,899        715    6,378      851    8,100    247   2,584   m
JvLer 10 years                                        189    7,517       152    4,880       266   10,070    117   5,610 
Total                                            2,674   16,795    2,167   16,151   2,525   22,645    962  11,436
Source:  FDB



66                          Appendix 11
Fiji Development Bank
Actual and Projected Operations
(1983184-1988189)
(F$'000)
Actual                          Projected
Year Ended 30 June        1983/  1984/85      1984/   1985/   1986/    1987/    1988/
1984   (6 mos.)-=  1985    1986    1987       1988     1989
Loan Approvals (Net)
Agricultural loans         8,367   3,148    7,380   11,300   12,900   14,800   17,000
Industrial/Commercial
loans                   11,779   9,415   13,000   14,400   17,200   20,600   24,700
Industrial/Commercial
loans to Fijians         1,981     952    1,620    1,780    1.950    2,140    2,350
Joint Venture                518      70    1,000    1,050    1,110    1,190    1,300
Total Approvals         22,645  13,585   23,000   28,530   33,160   38,730   45,350
Loan Commitments
Agricultural loans         7,065   3,112    6,358    9,786   11,178   12,807   14,706
Industrial/Commercial
loans                    9.219   7,200   12,865   12,096   14,482   17,316   20,754
Industrial/Commercial
loans to Fijians         1,707     931    1,522    1,572    1,724    1,891    2,077
Joint Venture                -       -         720      936       988    1,055    1.150
Total Commitments       19,816  11,243   21,465   24,395   28,372   33,069   38,687
Loan Disbursements
Agricultural loans         5,839   2,858    5,915    9,264   10,620   12,155   13,945
Industrial/Commercial
loans                    7,472   5,598   12,019   11,395   13,367   16,011   19,298
Industrial/Commercial
loans to Fijians         1,199     878    1,558    1,561    1,693    1,856    2,039
Joint Venture                -       -         576      892       977    1,041    1,131
Total Disbursements    14,962   9,334   20,068   23,112   26,657   31,063   36,313
Staff Loan
Disbursements                452      316      400       150      160      170       180
Equity Investments
Approvals                    100   4,733    6,318        200      200      200       200
Commitments                  -       -         -        -         -        -         -
Disbursements                100     -       6,318      200       200      200       200
Total                      200   4,733    6,318       200       200      200       200
a/ From 1 July to 31 December 1984.
Source: FDB
(Reference in text: Page 24, Para. 78)



!!j.L.p~~~velo sent Danok
Actual 4a 4i1~iZi1a t&mntts
-etual                                         Proeceted P--j-c--
(6 sooto
Year ended 30 June                             1980/81 1_81/82  1982/83   953/154  19S4JS5   1934/8;   1985|96_ 1986/87  1987/68  19681/9
Ineov
Ineerei  - client loans                             4,523    5,576    6,452    8,055    4,709   10,230   12,U 6   13,876   15,586   17,667
- staff l:^an                                 39        55        83        s9        47      140       151       154       157       161
Fee and comissiocu                                     112       146       149       152        72      211       199       232       271       317
Divideands                                              66       104        a5       167        32       172      124       135       147       161
Roets                                                  291       286       290       298       141      282       258       258       258       258
other Incose                                            60        33        63        35       322       351       40        50        60        70
Total. IAcoNe                                    5,0       6         7,122    El!!    5.311   l             l3,16  li,705   17[aRiO   L.
IV ri      Interest                                             2,666    3,069    3,469    4,649    3,132    6,229    7,159    8,130    9,206   10,584
p  n       Salaries                                               966    1,054    1,283    1,510          857    1,806    2,167    2,200    2,400    2,500
. ,.    Depreciation                                            78        77        76       162        as       192      198       193       189       184
Directors nees                                           4        12        14        16         e        17        Is       19        20        22
0          Advertiaina                                              5         4                   9         e        30        25        30        33        35
Professional services and unit                          17        25         L        24        20       40        43        4S        52        55
>  WB      ttilitiea                                                13       i5        17        15        15        32        35        40        42        46
iotor vebicle. "lpense                                  44        56        70        52        23        56       60        62        65        69
rt         Raparsr  and Kaintenance (includiag properties)         55        66        61        75        S!        99       103       110       ils       123
0          Travel and entertanaeUt                                 56        72        72        52        46        92        99       106       109       113
r t        EDP/Coupucer/Word processing                            26        2S        26        30        38        55        50        46        46'       8
Publicaticoes  printing and etaticoary                  29        29        31        37        16       47        49        52        56        62
Studies                                                  3         7         4         4         9       32        42        46        49        51
I'd        lasurance                                                I7       24        22        23        14        27        30        32        34        37
Telepbone, poetage and cables                           45        45        47        56        29        13       75        78        60        G2                                 eJ
DSC - electricity                                       75        97        82        67        40       104      105       108       112       115                                  4
- repair and *i ntsaesne                           36        21        39        19        21        32        33        35        36        36
w               - I au ance an4 othere                             62        8?        81        94        43        97        96       100       105       106
II         General (othero)                                        63        62        70        91        14        57        63        67        69        71
Total expencse                                   4,0 s               3|No8    7,015       , D0 E                      1TU       12,826   14.61i
Surplus of lacoe  over enpenee.                          599    1,331      1,634    1,761        691    2,279    2,763    3,201    3,672    3,991
'1       Lees:  Provision for doubtful debts                      263       531       756       867         2    111O   1.290    1.116    1,193    1 274
HoYt operating Iacone o                                  6 0           0       J S 94 U0                1 -- "I                                 2 S 1
0        Patios
Return eo aquity (%)1/                                4.53      5.34      4.60      3.51     6,05      3,58      3.86      5.04      5.49      5.41
Recurn oan  qutty tefore provioti1s (S)/             6.82       8.69     6.35      6.91      6.06      6.96      7,23      7.73      8.13      7.94
Raturn oo lons term capital (%)&/                     7.07      7.27      7.13      7.10     8.4       7.37      7,50      8.05      6.37      6.47
Return an lendlna operationa (f-fl                   10.53    11.13    1ill)    10.83    10,45    11,04    11.82    11.82    11.94    11.95
Neturt or overall operttions (2)1                    11,53    12.05    11.95    12.!0    11.-    11.64    11,63    11.67    11.34    11.99
Cost of botrowins (2)'/                               7.96      8.11      8.37      8.53     9,66      9.20      9.31      9.50      9,75    10.56
Cross  argin from lending operationst  ()/            2.57      3.02      2.73      2.00     0.77      1.64      2.51      2.32      2.19      1.39
.et KergIt froM oeerall operations ()-                2.03      2.59      '.75     3.44      1.89      2.33      2.43      2,56      2.63      2.57
Opeetings expeuses to average loam and investent
portfolio (U)                                      3.47      3,46      3,40      5.31      2.67      2.94      2.90      2.68      1.60      2.A2
A/  Net Inct:e to azterse *q4Ly.
i/  Net incese  plus not provision for doubtful debt to averase vqsity.
cl  Scc incoze plus I!ceresc paiJ to averase long term  debt and lveras;c eclty.
71  Income from lertUsr  opersttUns to avernae loan pcrtfoE1'.
c!  inc::* fr,n lezL:d      oper  !:ns and inv,n?vnt snd c:her Inc4e to &Iv:%ac  can knd e;uI" Invest:enc r W:aola.
T,  interest on bItrrvirgs co . Ver3e bOrrWvs,.,A.
1, nc- :          pceo.| iar fe po?ticl:e -.           zncert: .n  ?rrr:wt-n. (V!lCC  :'!' 4T.
h1.  ?.s:a: i.::-.e, a^ t pilrcs.t: ..eof c earjba   t: :. I.n .J :,w.,:n: :J:e:t: ..Gd  zt13tir.1 apontes 39 a par:ar:ijo :! everJge



68                                            Appendix 13
rSu  DeaILGment Sam
30 un (ACtuA)                 31 Dnc.             30 Jut'. (Crnolactuu)
As of                          1910   1291   16"2    1963   1SM    194    196    1981   1987   1958    1969
Currnt Asset.
C_h and 1epait                   2.29    2.506   1.40    421  3,052    -    2.150   1.376  2.796  1.396    511
Ltw_ reeivable. within
one yewr                       6.369  9.345  12.452  13.357  14515  17.54   20.570  24.650 27.352 31.355  35.396
Sundry                            102    319    214    152    26*    931    3S0    400    450    460    470
Sub-total                   1           WS i.i- . 13.930  17.33  1.4   23.070  26.426 31.09B 33.211  36.377
Portfolio
Agriculturai loan.              15.563 22.556 27.255  31.416 35.256 37.6B9 39.U43  45.507 51.494  57.877  65.798
LOdmtri and Corceal
loan                          14.967  1347  20.126 24.656 27.895  32."S  3X.02  41,96  49.430 57.893  68.669
Loa. under  iji. Schiem          5.375  5.509   5.617  5.U84   7.033  7.499  6,344  10,330 12.421  14.623  16.680
Loam under FSC                    -       -       -      -   15.200  15.50   15.50   12.700  9.400  6.500   3.400
Staff loae                        519    716    936   1 351  1 7*1   1 857   1 .1   1 911 *       9  1. 995  2 067
Sub-totl           39@ 53T= ZWff   W.W  i7,fI3S                          9 rWWi 110.60 112436 1r24.594 136.893 156.794
Less: Seceivable
wLthin one yer         8.369   9.246  12.452  13.357  16.515  17.542 20.570 24.650 27.852 31.355  35.396
Loam rcelvablw. after
one yeur                      31.075 37.380 41.652  49.950 72.630 77.44   80.0o0  *7.786 97.042 107.536 121.398
Equity Invaatuants                867      04    a62      33      96  5.434  7.019  7.189  7.349  7.499   7.639
flnad hAats                     2.23   2.320  2.279   5,3U6  5351  5.3Zl   6.011  6.019  S,571  5.728  5.4e9
TOtal a                      U9S  S3,79 S6.710 70.0M   96.712 106.679 116.180 127,420 141,160 IS3.97b 170.903
LIABILMTES
Currat Liabil utl.
Craditerno ad acicwa
dharou                          810    U3    622   1.039  1.297  4.037    550    *50    300    S0S   1,300
Term borrwlnp due
wilthin oea yer                 263    734      69  4.356   5.lbl  2.403  Z.755   4.156  3.056  9.856  10.009
Dne to oubaidiarLu                  6      37     27      22      35      27      27     30      3J      36      35
leuegve for _zchUng
Iluctuatlins                    244      95     51    120    248    245    248    248    248    248    248
Amm_l ad long ervice               65      37    106    140    We7    167    16          170    173    176    179
S tatal                       1.350  1.536   1.67   5b.79  6.903  b6.U2  4.047   5;4S4   4.30i  Il.12i  11.i74
Lo,,-Te abil tiaM
Borrowlngm ftur AM               1.076   1,034    695    749    6O3    604    S48  2.172   5.531   7.058   6.850
Sarrowvtig  frm LORD            .2.77  3.029  3.06b  3.107  Z.969  2.850  2.731   3.448  5.235  5.584   5.155
FIU Sonde                       16.000 21.000  24.000 2       *.00   41.232 47.350 53.011  56.911 60.903 65.235 75.755
Borrowing. fru  UIB               -       -       -      -       -       -       400   1.600  2.800  4.000  4.09D
Borroing. ftroam  F             7.150   9,60  9.650 9.650   15.650  1S.650  15.650  15.060  15.650  15l.50  15.650
Othar: 9EEC                       167    361    726    751    604    604    604    604    604    604    604
C/lDank                 I.663   1 .78   1.207    650    04.4    441    438       12     2S      17       9
Sub-tOtdl                    30.333  36.52   9.54' 43Y307  6.962  b7.499  fj;J32  10.417 90.7411 9e.151 IB.;OZi
Less: Men within               263    736    659  4.35  5.161   2.403  2.755   4.156  3.056  9.856  10.009
one yuer
Provision for daubtful debts     1   I" 1.S29  2.201   3.210  4,31   4.b20  5146 I     JBL b         7' 161   7.96
sub-total                   3i1 23; 7.47  41V93 6O2.159 61.1)1 69.71* 7S 773 i2.131 94.130 VI.GS6 IOb.Ol
CANITAL AIID VSKIVS
Capital                            IO.SS7  11;557  12.711  14.ffl 20.4118 20.9S8  26.986  20.9W1  z9.9"6  31.iS11 14.911
rrptLy rvelmaLlw r_e                 441   4"4       41   3,516  1.515   1.5nA  3.8IS   V1.78  3.51w   3.115   3.5J8
Centing_ey r                         743        963     963     96    3     963  9b  3     9        63    9 63 963    9e3
Retained earnip                      620  1.035  1.635  2.769 l. 2   4.5    4.631    ,0 8.9I  10.870  13.581
Total Capital ad Uasrv1              13.990 l .S    22.261 2.10.01       3    .160 19.J51  42.920 47.199 S3.116
Teal IubilIti. nd Snqilty  ".945 53.279 5S.710 70.099 96.71Z 100.679 116.150 127.420 141.310 153.976 170.903
Ration
Debt:Equity!                     71:29  72:26   71:Z9   b6:34  68:32   69:31   67:33   67:33  b18:3Z  67:33   67:33
2.45:1  2.62.1  2.48:1  1.95:1  2.16:1  2.24:1  2.02:1  2.02:1  2.11:1  2.07:1  2.03:1
Curret                          7.97:1  6.90:1  5.44:1  2.45:1 2.5:1  2.68:1  5.70:1 4.85:1  7.22:1  7.99:1  3.09:1
Provislon for doubtful dabts/
Total eutatnniug leone (2)        2.95   3.24    3.40    5.07   4.95   4.8b   5.11   5.22   5.15   5.15   5.10
a/ A)er Table 4 in remt.
(Reference in text:  Page 32, Para. 92)



Fiji Develot Bhnk
Actual and Projected Cash FlLw Statennt
(F$'cE0)
Actual                   }       ,,           -rowited
Year ale 30 Jue                       1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  198485-' 1984/85=' 1985/86  1986/87   1987/88  1988/89
Sources
t      Net profit before payig interest        3,302    3,889    4,347       5,543   4,021    8,338    10,022   11,273   12,433    13,901
m      Increase in provisicos for
o      - depreciation                             78        77       76        162      88       192       198      193       189       184
n      -doubtful debts                           365       679    1,056      1,102      308      834       724      568       723       835
m        E- hcri*c c/                           (49)   (44)          69        128       -         -        -         -         -       -
0      Sale of euty investment                    33        42       74         35      197      197        30       40        50        60
rt     Cient loan repsymets /                  7,380    6,299    6,292       6,324   2,80M    6,963    11,476   14,359   16,741       18,692
Available for debt serviclng (A)       11,109    10,942    11,916    13,294   7,419    16,524   22,450   26,433   30,135    33,672
Increase In capital                     1,000    1,154    2,240      5,537      5C0    6,500    2,ao0      1,000    2,000      3,000
Dr&*awn of loag-tezm debt
S      - foreig                                  260       332      346          -       -       400    3,890    6,696    4,440         724
m      _ ^inoatic                              6,793    3,222    3,650    22,629   8,337   16,230    5,900    7,792    7,630    21,025
w      Increa9e in current l1iabllitles           63    (  S0)      244        298   2 732   ( 455)         6     (.4)         11      5O
Total Sources                         i19,-2    15,600    18,396    41,758   1         39,199   34,246   41,877    44,1       58,921
Applicatio                                                                                                                             0%
Repayment of borzwizip
- forelg                                   42      139       146       424      175       347      349       350    1,364      2,374
- dbmustic                                692      523        87      3,550   2,625    4,863    2,406    3,807    2,800        9,500
Interest on bonacKigs                   2,666    3,089    3,469      4,649   3,132    6,229      7,159    8,130    9,208    10,994
Debt servicing reiirm t (1)             3,400    3,751    3,702       8,623   5,932   12,379   11,302    13,345   14,118    23,058
Didxrsemmts
- lone                                 15,164   13,005   15,665    30,162   9,650   20,468   23,262   26,817   31,233    36,493
-eqsuty investments                        70        -        45        100   4,733    6,318       200       200      200        200
Acquisition of flied assets               160       51        31        128      60       852      206        45       46         45
Increase In liquid aasets    .            431   (1,207)  (1,047)    2,745  (1,387)   t 818)   ( 724)   1,470   (1.390)    ( 875)
Total Applications                     19,225   15,600    18,396   4:1 ,758            3 31     34,246   41,877   44,217    58,921
Debt service coverage (tines): A/B       3.27     2.92      3.22       1.54   1.25-     1.33'    1.99       1.98     2.13       1.46
a/ From I July to 31 Dwc*er 198BK (6 nos.)
b/ Frm   July 1984 to 30 June 1985 (12 me.)
c/ Provision for the increase in value of EE: loan (EMWO0,000) due to de aluation of Fijian dollars.
/ Due to FDB's accotmting procedures, unpaid interest balances at year end are not able to be differentiated from unpaid principal
balances on FDB's loan portfolio. Accordingly it has been asumed for the purpose of this calulation that all interest psymntsB
have been made and the reminder of repaymnt amomts have been applild to reducing principal balances.
e/ The relatively kw debt service coverage projected for the year ended 30 June 1985 reaslts f rn repaymnt of threeF iD    i           x
totalling F$4.85 mudlion due for repaynt in that year and fruo interest payable on the relatively high wunt of now Bond
issue nude during the year ended 30 Jwu  1984.



Fiji Development Bank
Analysis of Loan Portfolio By Industiral Sectors
(F$'000)
30 June                             31 December
As of                                       1981          1982           1983           1984         1984
Agricultural Loans
Beef                                             2,886         3,043          3,397          3,720        3,802
X       Dairy and Pigs                                    1,805         2,052          2,371          2,465        2,747
'1      Fruit and Vegetables and Rice                     3,094         3,915          5,842          7,436        8,431
r)      Poultry                                           1,279         1,403          1,785          1,931        1,966
0       Sugar Cane - Seaqaqa                              7,142         7,548          6,837          6,683        7,023
- Other Areas                        3,850         5,878          6,828          8,138        8,732
Fishing                                          1,229         1,623          2,133          2,429        2,430
Others                                              650        1,017           1,463          1,661       1,738
Drainage Board                                     621           776             760            793         820
Fiji Stigar Corporation                            -             -              -           15,200,      15,500
A           Sub-total                                    22 556        27,255         31,416         50,456       53,189
Industrial/Service Sector Loans                                                                                            0
Timber, Mining and Quarrying                     1,403         2,223          2,102          1,888        2,088
Manufactuirng                                    6,908         7,348         10,398         11,774       14,212
Construction                                     2,801         2,665          3,060          4,054        4,278
Tourism                                          3,184         3,144          3,453          3,960        3,853
co      Transportation                                    3,409         3,664          4,268          4,634        4,930
Commercial loans                                    338          575            845          1,430        2,217
Investment                                         404           507            530             155         867
Sub-total                                    18,447        20,126         24,656         27,895       32,445
Commercial/Industrial Loans to Fijians
Timber, Mining and Quarrying                       439           430            479             632         632
Manufacturing                                      330           310             322            548         713
Construction                                       275           353            295            283          359
Tourism                                              84           92              90             92          81
Transportation                                   1,976         1,872           1,899          1,597       1,593
Commerce                                         1,790         1,824          2,054          2,679        2,946
Investment                                         615.          736            745          1,202        1,175
Sub-total                                     5,509         5,617          5,884          7,033        7,499
TOTAL                                        46,512        52,998         61,956         85,384.      93,133



Fii Deeopent Uk
Amlvsis of Equittv !hist.t Portfolio
1h. of             Total Cost               O.wCt         DWvided Received
muSha    fr Cont       of       Av. Cost  Hs%Mt                             .
N    of 4MW             UN of hIu ss    Hold    1eld           1vstqnt  n2r &uc   ValUG    1982/83   1983/84   1984            Operatm  St -tue-
Blue Lwim                   STw1                12,813     1.70       9.7        0.76      I.96         1         3        2      Profitable opeatan
D       M?1 Im Nteas                Znwst Co.           20,000   100.00      20.0        1.00      1.00         -         -        -      NM-actiw
*,,     Fiji Citrus 1tccts         Asrclturs          224,239   22.40      224.5        1.00      1.00         -ider _U                           p1m tatim
>       Fiji Air Ltd.               TraSport             1,100    0.40         1.3       1.16      1.50              -             -          fitabk opatin
rt      Fiji Coopeativ              II3las              70,000    19.50      70.0        1.00      1.00         -         -        -      FYn           dLfficultiL
Flotr lIlls of Fij          Food MWg.          290,673    9.80      229.6        0.79      1.65        44       4U         -       Pfitable opati
uva Stock Eh                Stock e:han         20,000  100.00       20.0        1.00      1.00         -         -        -        rk-n opertim
Unit Trst of Fiji           Tzwsbt Cm.    106,250    6.90            100.0       0.94      1.15         6        12        6      Profitable opatioi
QB     hnks I'tPilp(SS) Co.  td.     rade               11,419    0.11       20.5        1.80      1.10         -         -        1      Profitable operatim
D      hly Big Hsfturer             Plastic Ws.         40,000    20.00      40.0        1.80      1.10         -         -        -      Uhdir  1lcntation
Carlton BrsAr!              Brm.xy             600,000    30.00   3,550.1        5.92      5.92         _         _       60       Profitable opera'im
FEbos Paific                Ibod MXg.           50,000    31.00      50.0        1.00      1.00         -         _        _-      Feati
>      Basic 1rAistries             Concrtu            500,000    16.67     500.0        1.00      1.00        34       100       13      Profitable operation
Bula IlMya Corporation      Hotel              500,00n      -       500M0        1.00      1.00         -         -        -       Uider Implentati
P*     Copra H&ller(Fij) Ltd.       Food WS.           132,000    66.00     132.0        1.00      1.00                 -ider impluatat
$5,467.7                             85       167       82
ALesrn  PoVuicin for losses                                           33.5
a/  Uhdr iametatio, profitable  articn, awerimc1g finsncial or
tecljical difficulties, wdr UiqAdatLin.



72
Appendix 17
Fiji Development Bank
Analysis of Arrears
(F$'000)
As of                                     30 June                31 December
1981     1982     1983      1984     1984
By Industrial Sector
Seqaqa Sugar Cane Scheme               10        11       12       16        23
Agricultural Loans                    756    1,226    1,722    2,506    2,724
Industrial & Commercial Loans         531    1,654    2,500    3,040    3.645
Industrial & Commercial Loans
to Fijians                        1,026    1,313    1,618    1,573    1,638
Total Arrears (A)              2,323    4,204    5,852    7,135    8,030
By Region
Suva & East Viti Levu               1,532    2.456    2,673    3,100    3,552
West Viti Levu                        535    1,123    1,997    2,206    2,779
Vanua Levu                            257       625      805    1,082-.  1,012
Outer Islands                         -        -         377      747       687
Total Arrears                  2,323    4,204    5.852    7,135    8,030
By Age of Arrears
One Month or less                  C               )     930    1,270    1,063
Two to Three Months                5               )     335      506       651
Four to Six Months                      N.A.      )      431      492       637
Six to Twenty-four Months          (              )   4,156    4,867    5,679
Total Arrears                                     5,852    7,135    8,030
Total Loan Portfolio (B)           47,228   53,934   63,307   87,145   94,990
Loans in Repayment
Stages (C)                       40,899   46,168   54,127   74,160   80,836
Provisions for Bad &
Doubtful Debts (D)                1,529    2,208    3,210    4,312    4,620
Loan Portfolio excluding
loans under Fijian Scheme (E)   41,719   48.317   57,423   80,112   87,491
Ratio
A/B                                  4.92     7.79      9.24     8.19      8.45
A/C                                  5.68     9.10    10.81      9.62      9.93
D/B                                  3.24     3.40      5.07     4.95     4.86
DIA                                 65.82    52.52    54.85    60.43    57.53
D/E                                  3.66     4.70      5.59     5.38     5.28
(Reference in text:  Page 30, Para. 88)



Fiji Dvelopmt Bank
Oollectim  of Lam
0                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(F$tio0)
-tual                                           Prolected
Year enled 30 June      1980/81   1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85a/ 194/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
I. Arrears at the beg^nIing of the period
interest l             1,683    2,323    4,204    5,852    7,135    7,135    8,052    9,394   10,391   11,511
II. QCrrent dhes durzig the period
Interest )             13654   15,156   17,283   18,149    8,667   21,220   28,809   32,815   37,077   41,322
Pr1cApal)
II. Total dues for collection (I.+ II)
Inter   )              15,337   17,479   21,487   24,001   15,802   28,355   36,861   42,209   47,468   52,833
V. Ltwo  pte_hled
E1reiwApl               1 1,072    1,395    2,808    2,398    1,211    2,500    2,700    2,900    3,100    3,300
JA       V. Cash Collction
eJ          Ex 4rApal )11,942   11,880   12,827   14,468    6,561   17,803   24,767   28,918   32,857   36,670
VI. Arrears at the end of the perlod
Pr wivaY    l )2,323    4,204    5,852    7,135    8,030    8,052    9,394   10,391   11,511   12,863
00
'-'   \VI. Pertage                (Cash coflecti0vtotal dues for collectfm)
nldtrpels)              77.86    67.97    59.70    60.28    53.6J  62.79    67.19    69.30    68.51    69.41
VIII. Arrears aS peroentage of total portfollo
Elnterpal )t )          4.92      7.79     9.24      8.19      8.45     8.00      8.35     8.32      8.29     8.20
XI. Ead debts, written-off
Interest )               133       140       297     318         77      275       550      550       550       550
P )                                                                                          c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
a/ For six wunth period ended 31 Decewber 1984.
b/ Anallzed,



74                                            Appendix 19
FIJI - -
IbAdi of B ourm d       of 31  cInbw 1984
_      FS'OW)
nOriizml             Race      Rq8dewt                       BaIle
rat.d                of         Tona      AMMlt  AMonEt hmaCO-
cAt       Yew brtetca)   (Year)   Drm    Repaid    d1i   RumkF
L    BorrW     for OEffe  bflldln
SwhWp Bdc of Fiji mm)               80    1974       8.5           15         so      39        41
IL B _nmu for Reladirm
Fiji N11aml Provldtnt IWd          300    1969       6.75          20        300      -        300
AuI                 k            1,600    1974   7.5s8.75a8.25    15       1.119     516       603
400    197W4     7.9            10       400      -         -
MacaNa. 15B.d of FIJI.             400    1975       8.5           10        500      -0
Fiji NatImial  YIvC ibid           350    1975       6.5           13        350      -        350
Scnd 1                           2.000    2976       7.0           10      2,000      -      2.000
Bond 2                           1.000    1976       7.1         -14       1,OW0             1,000
IanatLMOMM1 BUk of
Recawcr" ctalm     a D1v.                1976      8.5           30      3,73S    886    2,850
Band 3                           1,000    1977       7.1           14      1.0CO      -      1,000
FLJI RtAcll Prvidnt r.md         2.000    1977       8.3           20      2.000      -      2.000
Boid 4                           2,22S    1978       6.B            7      2,225      -      2.225
Bd 4                             1,775,   2978       7.1           14      1,775      -      1.775
fludS                            1576*    m97g       8.5           11      1,575      -      1S7S
Band 6                           2 S225    2979      7.U5           5      2,22S      -        -
fid 6                              775    L979       8.2           13        775      -        775
Fiji Notta=l Prd=Ict EPkMd       3,000    2979       8.8           20      3,000      -      3.000
&rnern KFcansumiyc a    Lmr        604    2979    LO              40        604      -        604
vd7                              1.400    2980       7.65           7      1.400      -      1,400
Band 7                             600    2960       8.25          14        600      -        600
kand 8                           2,350    2980       8.B            7      2,350      -      2,350
Bmd a                              650    2980       9.5           14        650      -        650
Fiji  MaCniOI PrvidMt Fumd       2.000    2960       8.8           20      2,000      -      2.000
Bnd 9                            2,L00    2961       9.45           5      2,400      -      2,400
Bid 9                              600.  1961       2.35           14        600      -        600
Fiji Natdmol Prcvident Fund      2,000    298n    10.05            20      2,000      -      2.000
Band 10                          3)510    2992       9.6            6      3.500      -      3,500
Bandl1                             50GS   29S2    11.3             14        500      -        5O
Band U                           2.000     1963      9.6            6      2.000      -      2.000
Bcid 1U                          1,000    293    U.3               14      1.000      -      1,000
Band 12                          3.000    l983       9.4            5      3.000      -      3,000
Bod 13                           3,000    2983       9.4            5      3,000      -      3,000
FijL NacInnal Pzwkldt Fmnd       6.000     l983     10.35           7      6,000      -      6.000
Iund 14                          3.150    2964       9.6            b      3,150      -      3.150
Bod 14                             850    2984    21.1             14        850      -        850
land 15                          1,775     21984     9.6            6      1,775      -      1,775
Bamd 15                          2.225     1964    11.3            14      2,225      -      2.225
BOnd 16                             75    1984    10.1              6         75      -         75
Bond 16                          3,925    1984    U.3              14      3.925      -      3.925
Eand 17                            850    l984    10.5              6        850      -        850
Bond 17                          3,150    2984    I.5              14      3.150      -      3.250
111. ScaUdia Owwdraft Wilth
Natlcoam  Duk of Fiji              4.99    1967    13.5            -         _        _        _
Feacwlet oankf FiJi              8,000    1964    13.0             -         -        -        -
67-499
Source: FDB
(Reference in text: Page 29, Para. 87)



75
Appendix 20
Page 1
Fiji Development Bank
Major Assumptions for the Operational and Financial Projections
FY1984/85-1988/89
A.  Lending Activities
1.  Loan Approvals
a.  Approvals for the FY1984/85 are based on the operational
performance for the six-month period ending 31 December 1984 and
extrapolated for the year taking into consideration existing pipaline
projects.
b.  Approvals of agriculture loans are based on an annual
growth rate of 15 per cent with FY1984/85 the base year. A projected
12 per cent decline in agricultural loan approvals between FYs1983/84
and 1984/85 is the result of the slippage of one large project (Sigatoka
Rice Project) from FY1984185 to 1985/86 with the major cause of the
delay being the cyclones experienced during January 1985. Accordingly,
the projected approval level of agriculture loans during FY1985/86 has
been increased. The foreign exchange component of agriculture loans is
estimated at 33 per cent.
C.  As the actual industrial/commercial loan approvals during
FY1983/84 represented a relatively high figure when compared to previous
years, the growth of approvals In that loan category is projected to
restricted to 15 per cent for FY1984/85 and 10 per cent for FY1985/86.
However, during subsequent years, industrial/commercial loan approvals
are projected to increase at an annual rate of 20 per cent. The foreign
exchange component of industrial/commercial loans is estimated at 75 per
cent.
d. Approvals of industrial/commercial loans to Fijians are
projected to increase at an annual rate of 10 per cent. The foreign
exchange component of this category of loans is estimated at 75 per
cent.
2.  Disbursements
Based on past experience, the following assumptions are
applied:
a.  For agriculture loans, 85 per cent of approvals will
result in commitments and 60 per cent of those commitments will be
disbursed in the first year. The balance of the disbursement will be
made over the subsequent two years with the total disbursement
representing 82 per cent of the approved amount.
Source: FDB
(Reference to text: Page 32, para. 92)



76
Appendix 20
Page 2
b.   For industriallcoumercial loans, 85 per cent of approvals
will result in commitments with 70 per cent of commitments being
disbursed in the first year and the balance of disbursements in the
second year. The total disbursement will represent 80 per cent of the
approved amount.
c. For loans under the Industrial/Commercial Loans to
Fijians Scheme and Joint Venture Scheme, 90 per cent of approvals will
result in commitments and all disbursements, representing 85 per cent of
approvals, will be made in the first year.
3.  Loan Collections
Collections of principal and interest have been estimated as
follows. Due to FDB's method of accounting, all unpaid interest is
thereafter treated as principal and it is not possible to differentiate
between principal and interest payments.
Amount   Collection Rate-i
(F$'000)        (x)
FY1984/85                 17,803         62.79
1985/86                 24,767        67.19
1986/87                 28,918        69.30
1987/88                 32,857        68.51
1988/89                 36,670        69.41
a/ Total collections to total due.
B. Equity Operations
1.  Approvals
FDB's current equity investment policy states that new equity
investments of F$200,000 per annum will be made.   This level of
activity is an indicative level only and could be revised in the lige.t
of experience. Total new equity investments of F$6.229 million durl.ag
FY1984/85 resulted from exceptional circumstances and that level of
equity operation will not reoccur during the projection period. It is
assumed that all equity approvals will be disbursed in the same year.
2.   Sale of Shares
As FDB expects to hold each equity investment for minimum five
year period, relatively modest forecasts of sales proceeds have been made
over the projection period that are consistent with FDB's experience to
date.



77
Appendiz 20
Page 3
C.  Income Statements
1. Interest Revenue on Loans
FY1984/85   FY1985/86 onwards
(Z  - pa.)      (% p.a.)
Agriculture                    11.0           11.0
Commercial/industrial
loans                        12.5           13.5
Commercial/industrial
loans to Fijians             11H0           11.0
Joint Venture                  12.0           12.5
Currently, price control regulations in Fiji have precluded
FDB form increasing its interest rates in line with a recent decision by
2DB's Board of Directors. The price control regulations are due to
expire in August 1985 and FDB will accordingly increase all interest
rates at that time.
2.  Fees and Commission
These are calculated at the rate of 0.7 per cent of loan
approvals in each year.
3.  Income from Equity Investments
Dividends at an annual rate of 2 per cent have been assumed
reflecting the expected long gestation period of one major equity
project (hotel-conference centre) in which FDB will have a F$1.5 million
equity holding. Other equity investment are assumed to yield an average
dividends of 5 per cent. On the basis of conservatism, no gains have
been assumed from the sale of investments.
4.  Personnel and Administrative expenses
Future staff requiremets bave been based on an additional
staff requirement each year of six professional and one non-professional
staff member. An annual cost of living adjustment to salary levels of 5
per cent has been allowed for. Other expense items are expected to
increase at an annual rate of 5 per cent. The current reorgan5zation of
PDB is held to be an Important element in maintaining personnel and
administrative costs at close to current levels.



78
Appendix 20
Page 4
5.   Interest on New Borrowingsw-
Interest Rate
Credit Line           (% p.a.)     Repayment Terms
ADB                    10.25       Fixed Amortization
- 15 years
IBRD                    9.25       Fixed Amortization
- 15 years
EIB                     9.00       Fixed Amortization
- 15 years
FDB Bonds              10.5        Lump Sum 6 years
FDB Bonds              11.5        Lump Stu  14 years
6.  Provision for Doubtful Debts
This is estimated at a minimum of 5 per cent of the
outstanding loan portfolio.
7.   Bad Debts
Bad debts are written off directly against FDBts Provision for
Doubtful Debts and are therefore not explicitly shown in the income
statement. Assumptions made are detailed in Appendix 17 and show a
constant annual bad debt figure of F$550,000 for FYs1985/86-1988/89.
8.  Tax
FDB is exempt from Corporate Tax.
C.   Balance Sheet
1.   Share Capital Contribution
The Government has agreed to provide an equity injection to
FDB during FY1984/85 totalling F$6.5 million. Share capital increases
projected for subsequent years are similar in amount to such injections
provided in the past and are consistent with the Government's stated
policy toward FDB.
2.   Borrowings
Details of FDB's existing borrowingz: are provided in Appendix 18.
The proposed Bank's second loan and the proposed IBRD loan are expected
to be available for disbursement during FY1985/86. It has been assumed
that all domestic borrowings will be in the form of FDB Bonds.
1/   Appendix 18 provides full details of interest rates and repayment
terms of existing PDB borrowings.



79
Appendix 20
Page 5
3.   Purchase of Fixed Assets
The high capital expenditure figures for FYsl984/85-1985/86
reflect the capital items required for the current reorganization of FDB.
including purchase of a new computer, new vehicles and necessary
renovations to premises.



80
Appendix 21
Status of FMB's Cupangec with Tam coumts
UadeIC= RD. 174-CFJ
Refere   to         Stats of
~~~mts ~~~~mm Dotmsi
A.  Obligtiom of the Borr5ur CM)
1. EDB to aiply to the Beak all            LA  Sectin 5.02(a)    Omliad with
isafonti  rDgck  to la  ad 
2. FDM to wintain adeqe records of          LA. Section 5.02(b)    Cpllsed with
pm;sm of Prject In a       xrdm  with
with aud - 
3.  EDB to fmns iits axited amml accauts  L.A. Sectkm 5.02(c)    CuplI  with
to the BP.
4. EDB to umintaiu a dbt/equty      of      LA. Sectim 5.05        Coied with
3:1.
5. BDB tD seek the Bazk's priw apprval to    L. Section 5.07(:U)   Ckhled wth
establih any mbsidlary.
6. BlB to adopt a Policy Statt satis-       "L  Sectin 7.01(b)    CuPlied Wmt
factory to the BR.
7.  DES to cmalt Bak frn tur tD tir         S.L No. 2             Coliae  idth
a Interest pollry ad appainb. tE fam 3
MauIg Direcor and Depty Yhag
Director.
8.  ElB to uwnitain a provisdu for bd aId    S.L. No. 2           OMPlid with
doubtful debts at lasat eq1l tD 5 per   pm 4
eant of aU cutstaiag lowns.
9. HEZ to set aside profits as rqi.redl tD  S L. No. 2            CaWliedwith
mnntaifn its resves equal to 50 per      aM 5
can of its paid-in caitaL
10. EDB to adopt pzomUt pzocduri In          SL. No. 1             Comaled  ih
accarde with Bak arldeI  .              Pam 2
B.  Oblgations of th#e Qrmtor (the G)
1. The Govent to proide IDB with lol   G.1L Sectio 3.06           0omplHied dth
urrey fids  _ r  fr tk
2. The            to estd,l:1A the mitxutzed  S.L No. 3           OQdwith M
cadtal ofa HEby 30 Jtm 1974.            pm 2
3.  p- G(veet to asm  tihe fareiui          SL. ND. 3             ('mplied with
eabne risk of the BE.C loi.             pm  3
OW(e       in tert: Pape 36, Par  102)



81                       Appendix 22
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANX                 Page 1
15 Februxy 1995
Mr. J. Y. Kububola 
Pemnle lt Secretary fbr Financ
P. 0. Box 2212
Stwa, FPii
Dear mr. Rxhuabola:
Be: Euity Invesrbt Operatios by
smian          1 Ban
1.      The Asiam          -Ieln  Bank (the Bank) is eumprmed by Article
U  riii) of its Qhrter to C l a*t eity  IlNMit -erIt  I is
after the Board of Gr a of the Bank  hall            tdh-
the Bak is in a wdtis n to e m   such cpeatoMs.  On 18 Nardh
1983, the Board of G   r    .die muh a de_dnation
2.      Purmmt to ach deLscisi     of the Gors,  there is a
possibtlity for the Bac to c e equity iEsnt                atijns In
Fiji. At the Bark's epticm, suc aperatims may include  i invest-
nunts in the equity of nabi  and 3   -u M e      p s for specific
proic-mts  (ii) ints in the eqity of  4aenOpwit finance
instifutiaisn CWs) and sidlar entitiesy .md  ii) i s t in the
eqtity of smaller entmypies to he extei&d tb1Lgh DFrs under lirs
of eqity. The eigible enterpriss 'wcud be in the private sertor,
but med enterpiss  y be wasigeed In qiLcial    no RI s. u
Bak wold not sek ty asm                                  n etiy  r
seek ct li        interst in it eloept where necessar  to  sfeguad
i intt  On t  othr hand, the fan win not ame an equity
invesbut if the Goeimt bas my cbiectim to it.
3.      Before cmwnng its equity Investmint opeations in Fiii,
the Bawkl would libe to d,tain fza  the Governmt cF piji certain
asairar~suconsisten  with the Bank's dirter proision  Bsuch as
Articles 51, 53 and 56) relating to the privileges, I=mmities and
_,amptions of the Bark. Thes assuarms are:
(a) 'he Bankc viLl be i  e fra auw restricties ard
controls am1icable to 1      i s     and their
invesbmit.  It is uaerstood that this izumityp will
xtend cnly to the Ban and not to any other investor or
the invested czw.
(b) The Bank my freely sell parrtIc tions in the shares
agreed to be subcribed by it.
(c) The Bank or its Pts nag  freely selor otherwie
dispoe of its equity i _s t to dicuestic buyers.
(Reference in text: Page 13. Para. 39)
333. R.._. IN__,       P ....i rd. Pr. O..           s_u
-LI..a.v a-,-__. m*C&.M.._SASr)JUAW.ip..?. -.RMm  ~BPIUfhmAS Y..            S5p



82                     'Appendix 22
Page 2
-2-
The Bank or its agets my also sell or otherwise
disps  of its equity              to foreign bfvers
subect: to  the  ini    aroval  of the  Capital
Invwesnt    rd-Mtim Board.
(d) 1te Bak cr its agents acting in the mie of andl an
behal  of the Bank may  re-t-rate  frely, in   a
cmetible L          at the the aet exdiae rate,
ny     at and gains frcm, and sale prooees of, its
equity  irluesbIes  (incl;ing  capital  gains  and
mxbsoriptian rights).
(el M  fak wil be exapt fra any and all tmticn, and
from the withholding or oLlectnm of twaes, an aw
irxze and gains arising  t of its equitr _e;;
and the sale tbezsof.  It is idxsr-o t1hat this
esiptiai wrM  als  ap1l to any fee  cw oth   i e
reoeivl bv the BaW's  des acting in the  a  of
and cm behalf of the Bank an the- Boad of Di=ecor of
an iavested oaanW.
ff)  C  Besexve Bank   Fiii  dll, if so recuste by, the
Bank, act as deo si toy for the sluri    Eiftes ard
any I*ber related doamwnts -is.uec in respecnt of or in
comction with the Bank's equity invest2unt-s in Fiji.
It is ui PrItood, bcmwe that mtajec to these assncs. the Bank
win, fow eadb equity hMset,wply with the cxssary prmr!ural
.Mitiles u;1vB
Cozaliie uze the- amMicab3e local Lots.
4.      We luz3d be grateful if yen vmld cmnfirm the  m e    of
W            Iernt to the assuIs set a*t in pagraph 3 abore bo
enable the Bank to process equity         psals i Fiji.
Y       tOM
\tep
Director, oF
1{br the Govu:Li of Fiii)






