Document of
The World Bank
FOR omcIL USE ONLY
Ikep No P-4112-FIJ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt6.5 MILLION
-TO FIJI FOR A
FIJI DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
June 13, 1985
rbis d.ommt h  a redtclhd dbhM _d may be sud by redieus hly is Gh pwef     e of
tbdr WdlK dude  lb COsb ma not olerws be dlaeed wthou Wold Bank smuomdsm



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                 March 1985
Currency Unit             Fiji Dollars (F$)
F$1.00              =    US$0.9250              =  US$0.8356
US$1.00             =    F$1.0811               =  F$1.1967
Since 1975, the exchange rate of the Fiji Dollar has been
determined daily in relation to a weighted basket of currencies of Fiji's
major trading partners.  In this report, an exchange rate of US$1 = F$1.16 is
used.
FISCAL YEAR
Government - January 1 to December 31
FDB - July I to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -    Asian Development Bank
ECU       -    European Currency Unit
EEC       -    European Economic Community
EDB       -    Economic DeveLopment Board
EIB       -    European Investment Bank
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FDB       -    Fiji Development Bank
FRR       -    Financial Rate of Return
FNPF      -    Fiji National Provident Fund
FSC       -    Fiji Sugar Corporation
GDP       -    Gross Domestic Product
GDY       -    Gross Domestic Income
IDF       -    Industrial Development and Finance
SOE       -    Statement of Expenditure
SPARTECA  -    South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic
Cooperation Agreement
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
FIJI
FIJI DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Fiji
Beneficiary:       Fiji Development Back (FDB)
Amount:            US$ 6.5 million equivalent.
Terms:             The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and would have a term of 15 years
including 3 years of grace with a fixed amortization
schedule.
Co-tender:         The Asian Development Bank (ADB) is proposing a loan for
$7.0 miLlion from its Ordinary Capital Resources to FDB
with a guarantee from the Government of Fiji, and an equity
line of $250,000.
Relending Terms:   The Borrower would relend $3.5 million of the Bank loan
proceeds to FDB on the same terms as the Bank loan except
at a fixed interest rate equal to that of the corresponding
ADB loan to FDB (10.25Z). The balance of the Bank loan
($3.0 million) would be passed from the Borrower to FDB as
Government equity in FDB. The Borrower would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the Bank funds. FDB would relend
the funds to its subborrowers for periods of up to 15
years, including reasonable grace periods at interest rates
which would range from 11% to 13.5%.
Project            The project would finance individual subprojects in the
Description:     agricultural, industrial and service sectors.  Over the
two-year commitment period for the ADB and IBRD Loans, it
is estimated that the IBRD funds would finance some 1,700
subprojects creating significant employment and foreign ex-
change savings and earnings. The project also provides for
measures to support the institutional development of FDB.
There are no major risks associated with the project. FDB
is in sound financial condition and staffed with qualified
personnel.  FDB's management is competent in selecting and
approving viable projects and, with the planned hiring of a
qualified engineer, this ability will be further enhanced.
IThis document has a resricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofrlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:/&
Local      Foreign       Total
----US$ million ---…-
Credit Component
Agricultural subprojects                    5.6         -3.0          8.6
Industrial subprojects                     18.4         13.0         31.4
Total Financing Required                   24.0         16.0         40.0
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                         -           6.5          6.5
ADB                                          -           7.0          7.0
EIB /b                                       -           2.5          2.5
Government/FDB/Subborrowers                24.0           -          24.0
Total                                      24.0         16.0         40.0
Estimated Disbursements:  Bank FY                      1986    1987   1988   1989
--    US$ million
Annual                                            1.6      2.8    1.8    0.3
Cumulative                                       1.6       4.4    6.2    6.5
Rate of Return: NA
Appraisal Report:    Report No. FIJ-Ap:8, May 1985, prepared by
Asian Development Bank
Kap No. IBRD 12433R
/a   Estimated costs shown are for FDB subprojects eligible for project
financing. Not included are FDB lending operations for: land purchases,
refinancing and short-term working capital financing.
lb   The European Investment Bank (EIB) loan became effective in February 1985
and will finance on a parallel basis industrial, fishing and tourism
projects.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
FIJI FOR A FIJI DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the fcLlowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Fiji for the equivalent of US$6.5 million, to help finance the Fiji
Development Bank Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
three years of grace at the standard variable interest rate. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) is proposing a loan for US$7.0 million from its
Ordinary Capital Resources to the Fiji Development Bank with a guarantee from
the Government of Fiji.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report entitled "Adjustment and Selected
Development Issues" and an accompanying report on public enterprises are to be
discussed with the Government shortly. The latest sector reports entitled
"Fiji: Agro-Industrial Development" (UNIDO/World Bank) and "Fiji: Issues in
Energy Sector and Options" (UNDP/World Bank No. 4462-FIJ) were issued
respectively in March and June 1983. Basic country data are provided in Annex
I_ The Government of Fiji and the Bank are in general agreement on the
agricultural development strategy of the Eighth Development Plan (1981-85)
which emphasizes diversification of the export structure of the economy away
from sugar and tourism and toward non-traditional exports (e.g., tropical
fruits, ginger, timber, cocoa, fish), some limited import-substitution crops
(e.g., rootcrops, onions, maize), and associated agro-industries.
3.        Fiji was granted independence by the United Kingdom in 1970.  It is
composed of a group of over 300 islands in the South Pacific with a total land
area of 18,000 sq km. It has a population of about 672,000, about 90% of whom
live on the two main islands, Viti Levu and Vanua Levu. Fiji's multiracial
society includes indigenous Fijians of Melanesian and Polynesian stock (45%),
Fijians of Indian descent (50%), Europeans and Chinese (5Z). Fiji has main-
tained an effective Westminster type of parliamentary democracy since
independence in 1970 which has allowed basic individual liberties and social
harmony among the three major races. The political balance of power so far
hinges on a coalition between indigenous Fijians, the minority group of
Europeans and Chinese and some Fijians of Indian descent (the ruling Alliance
Party) while the majority of Fijians of Indian descent largely constitute the
loyal opposition (the National Federation Party). Moreover, consistent with
Fiji's democratic system, there is a well-established tradition of unionism
represented by the Fiji Trade Union Congress, a political ally of the ruling
Alliance Party. The strongest union within the Fiji Trade Union Congress is
the Public Service Association whose impact on industrial relations and wages
and salaries was markedly felt during the 1979-1983 period. The Fiji economy
essentially is based on a highly competitive sugar industry, a well-
established and efficient tourism industry and related trade and banking
service industries as well as government services.



-2-
4.        A remarkable feature of Fiji's development has been the substantial
reduction in the rate of population growth, from 3.3X in the early 1960s to
about 2X at present.  The Government's successful but quiet family p'anning
program, changing social habits, rising incomes and higher Labor force
participation rates among child-bearing females have all contributed to this
trend. Equally significant, the Fijian population of Indian descent has
tended to grow at a lower rate than the indigenous Fijian population, largely
due to declining birth rates and substantially more emigration.
5.        Between 1979-84, the growth performance of the Fijian economy
stagnated, with real CDP and real GDY (GDP adjusted for the change in the
terms of trade) declining respectively by about G.1% p.a. and 0.6% p.a. This
stagnation implies a 1.51 drop in real per capita GDP. The terms of trade
index fell by 24.3% between 1980-82, remaining well below the 1977 level for
the entire period and reaching its lowest level in eight years in 1981, mainly
as a reflection of a weaker export demand for Fiji's major export earners,
i.e., sugar and tourist receipts, during the recent international economic
recession. Compounding the difficulties of macroeconomic management for the
Fijian authorities during the 1979-84 period were two other adverse
developments: a rapid rise in wages and salaries (not commensurate with
changes in productivity, GDY, or domestic inflation) in the public sector and
the adverse effects of a prolonged drought (1981-83) on agricultural
production and two devastating cyclones (1983) on the tourism industry. Sugar
production declined by about 46% in 1983, but with adequate rainfall recovered
in 1984 to its more normal level, while tourist arrivals also picked up in
1984 with the return of better weather.
6.        The Fijian economy achieved some degree of adjustment to these
adverse developments. The investment savings gap (or its counterpart the
external current account deficit) widened from about 7.52 of GDP in 1979 to
13.6% of GDP in 1981 as domestic savings fell from about 29% of GDP in 1980 to
20% in 1981 with declining domestic incomes and as investment, especially
public investment, remained at high levels (30-33% of GDP). Between 1982-84,
the investment savings gap (and its counterpart the external current account
deficit) narrowed from about 7.4% in 1982 to 3% in 1984 as domestic savings,
estimated at 17-18% of GDP in 1982 and 1983, declined at a slower rate than
investment which fell to about 22X of GDP in 1984, compared to 33.3% of CDP in
1981. The major contributing factor to this lower savings rate by historical
standards (24% of GDP) was the decline in public savings, particularly in the
1981-83 period while private savings virtually remained constant. Public
investment was curtailed because of the lack of economically viable projects
in the pipeline and in order to accommodate the financing requirements of wage
and salary increases in the public sector. Thus, the adjustment could be
termed less than optimal because of its long-term adverse consequences on
future investment and growth.
7.        With total revenue estimated at 23-25% of GDP, Fiji's revenue
performance is excellent. However, there is scope for widening the tax base
through further monetization of the mixed subsistence sector and the
consequent addition of new taxpayers, improved collection from non-tax revenue
sources (namely, better cost recovery from statutory bodies) and, above all, a
higher net contribution from public enterprises. During 1979-83, revenue was



less buoyant than in the 1970-78 period due to the sluggish economic
performance, while total expenditures rose from a level of about 26Z of GDP in
1979 to 30Z in 1984 under pressures from increasing public sector wages and
salaries, increasing claims by public enterprises on budgetary resources and
mounting payments on the public debt, especially domestic. Consequently, the
overall budgetary deficit rose from about 3% of GDP in 1979 to 5.1% of GDP in
1984.
8.        As indicated in para. 6 above, the improvement in the current
account deficit during 1979-83 paralleled to some extent the swings in
domestic incomes arising from fluctuations in the terms of trade and the
negative impact of the cyclones on agricultural export volumes. However, the
average level of the current account deficit for the period (estimated at 6.6Z
of GDP) compares unfavorably with the 3Z of GDP level achieved in the 1970s.
The improvement in the current account deficit was ac..-ived in 1984 only
through a drastic reduction in public investment activity, the consequent
curtailment of associated capital goods impG.ts and financing capital inflows
rather than an improvement in export performance, though consumer goods
imports grew rapidly toward the end of the period under the influence of the
1982-84 wage and salary increases, actually paid out in 1983 and 1984. To
shore up its balance of payments difficulties, and specifically to alleviate
the pressure on reserves, Fiji resorted to commercial borrowing in 1984 and
drew down about F$20 million on a previously contracted loan of F$25.0
million. The country's debt service ratio in 1984 was at a reasonable level
of 11.3% of exports of goods and non-factor services, an increase from lower
levels (less than 10%) in the 1970s, on account of a weaker export performance
in the recent past and a steeper build-up in interest and amortization
repayment after the grace period on the loans contracted in the early and late
1970s ran out. However, with the expected strong recovery in sugar prices by
the end of the decade, the debt service ratio could decline substantially to
much lower levels (less than 10% of exports of goods and services). The level
of international reserves stood at the equivalent of 2.6 months of imports, a
somewhat lower level than that maintained in the recent past. Early in 1985
the country experienced five devastating cyclones which have caused extensive
damage to the economy, the exact magnitude of which is being assessed.
Long-Term Development Issues
Raising the Domestic Saving Rate and Public Sector Wage and Salary Restraint
9.        In order to increase the domestic savings rate to the 1976-80 leveL
of 24% of GDP, compared to 18.3Z of GDP during 1981-84, public savings would
have to increase substantially and this would make it possible to implement
the export diversification programs of the Eighth Development Plan (1981-85).
Increasing the level of public savings requires a wage and salary restraint
policy which would effect a shift in expenditure allocations toward productive
investment. Moreover, public sector wage and salary restraint is desirable
because of its long-term adverse effects on employment creation through
escalating labor costs, on Fiji's wage competitiveness in export markets and
on the widening of income differentials between the high income urban areas
and (where paid employment is concentrated) the lower income rural areas and
the consequent migration inflows to the towns.



-4-
Increasing the Long-term Efficiency of the Public Enterprise Sector
10.       As mentioned in para. 7, a higher net contribution from public
enterprises can significantly increase the domestic saving effort through a
higher level of public savings. The size of the public enterprises sector in
Fiji is considerable. Its total value added amounts to 9% of GDP and its
share of total investment is as high as 50%. Yet its contribution to resource
mobilization has been negligible or negative in the recent past because of the
weak performance standards to which public enterprises are held. The commonly
accepted measure of performance is the avoidance of unreasonable losses in the
annual profit-loss accounts. Consequently, a number of public enterprises
perform below their long-term financial and developmental potential.
11.       Although only a few of Fiji's public enterprises have performed
consistently poorly, there is scope for raising the standards of efficiency
(in terms of financial and developmental performance) for most of them, while
at the same time maintaining the high degree of autonomy characteristic of the
public enterprise sector in Fiji. A system for evaluating and monitoring the
performance of public enterprises (with possibly appropriate incentives)
according to agreed criteria between the managers of individual enterprises
and a centrally located unit, i.e., a public enterprise unit in the Ministry
of Finance, would bring to the forefront the important issue of the long-term
efficiency of the sector as well as that of individual enterprises.
Increasing Scarcity of Arable Land and Enhancing the Effectiveness of the
Rental Land Market
12.       In view of the increasing scarcity of arable land because of
agricultural expansion in the 1960s and the 1970s, the issues of land use and
land development deserve particular attention. In the future, farmers will
increasingly seek those activities which yield high returns per unit of land
and considerable growth could occur as a result of a more intensive use of
land already under cultivation. In addition, activities with low returns per
unit of land could contract or be relegated to land of low marginal
productivity because of poor soil fertility and high land improvement costs.
These observations suggest that investments in infrastructure which consist of
improvements in existing land and in feeder roads which open up new land will
become more attractive. Hence, this heightens the urgency for the Government
to assess systpmatically the land use requirements of the agricultural sector
and to engage more actively in land development.
13.       A related issue is the limited effectiveness of the rental land
market in increasing the availability of rental land because of perennial
institutional impediments. In order to improve access to rental land (a major
constraint on agricultural development and an important determinant of
household incomes) it is desirable that several measures be adopted: a more
frequent review of rents to ensure that they reflect supply and demand
conditions in various parts of the country rather than maintaining them at the
notional equivalent of 6Z of the unimproved value of the land, the elimination
of the 25% service charge collected by the Native Land Trust Board (a land
administration agency) and a more equitable distribution of rental incomes
among various land owning units. These measures are likely to provide a



greater incentive to customary landowners to lease land to the long queues of
lessees anxious to farm.
Bank Assistance
14.       While tourism and sugar will continue to be the major sources of
future economic growth, the bank and the Government agree on a long-term
export diversification strategy toward fisheries, timber and tropical fruits
development. The Government pursues this strategy through a joint venture
investment policy with foreign private investors. Government support of
foreign private investment has been in the form of infrastructure development,
which the Bank has partly financed in the past, and financing of initial
capital costs through direct equity participation in new ventures. Further-
more, since there is scope for further monetization of the mixed subsistence
sector, the export diversification thrust is aimed at smallholders. With
adequate incentives and agricultural support services, smallholders would
adopt the cultivation of high value export crops or other agricultural
commodities once their commercial success is proven.  The recent development
of the ginger and timber industries are such examples of success. At the
request of the Fiji Government the Bank intends to assist key sectoral
ministries in strengthening project identification and preparation capacity.
Finally, the Government, upon urging by the IMF and the Bank, has agreed to
set up a public enterprise unit within the Ministry of Finance to monitor and
evaluate the performance of public enterprises. Again, the Bank is prepared
to assist the Government in establishing such a monitoring and evaluation
system. Given the critical role assigned by the Government to public enter-
prises in export diversification, the success of this strategy lies in the
long-term efficiency of public enterprises in charge of agricultural and agro-
industrial development.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS
15.       The Bank has made eight loans totaling US$83.7 million to Fiji, for
seven projects in agriculture, power, telecommunications, cyclone
reconstruction and transportation (one of the eight loans provided
supplemental financing for a highway project). Currently, there are no Bank
projects under execution in Fiji. The most recent loan was closed in December
1984. Disbursements have been completed. Implementation of these projects
was generally satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments.
16.       Agricultural development and employment generation will continue to
be the major focus of the Bank's assistance, since the agriculture sector
represents Fiji's best potential for raising rural incomes and expanding
exports.
17.       The proposed project is the first in Fiji to be cofinanced with the
Asian Development Bank as the lead cofinancing agency. The Bank's strategy
for the Pacific Islands is to take a lead in economic and sector work while
cofinancing most operations with the ADB as the lead agency responsible for
project preparation, appraisal and supervision. This approach allows the Bank



- 6 -'
to be involved in more operations than would be otherwise possible, given the
limited absorptive capacity of the countries. The Bank will continue to take
the lead selectively in projects where it has a comparative advantage such as
in general education.
18.       Consistent with the Bank's strategy, future lending is expected to
focus on rural development, including rural infrastructure, in an effort to
help the Government overcome some of the major constraints inhibiting
diversification and expansion of the agriculture sector.
19.       The proposed project is in line with the Government's strategy of
fostering the development of alternative crops and associated agro-industries
in order to raise the level of investment and economic growth. The Bank's
involvement in the project, and in the agricultural portfolio in particular,
will allow FDB to increase the credit available to smaller-scale farmers.
20.       As of March 31, 1985 the amount of effective loans held by the Bank
was US$67.4 million. IFC has made one investment in Fiji totaling US$6 mil-
lion for the expansion of sugar milling capacity.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
21.       Agriculture, predominantly sugar, remains Fiji's principal source of
employment and foreign exchange earnings. The overall performance of the
sector has been negative, declining in real value by 1.4% per year during the
period 1979 through 1983. The decline in agricultural output can be partially
explained by extraordinary droughts and cyclones during this period but also
it can be traced to declining unit prices for Fiji's major exports: sugar and
coconut oiL. Efforts by the Government to stimulate export diversification
and import-substitution crops have been at best only partially successful due
to Fiji's remoteness from principal markets, comparatively high labor costs,
and Fiji's land tenure situation where most of the arable land is owned by
communal groups who have little incentive to work the land themselves. Mo__
traded agricultural production is grown by tenant farmers on small plots
averaging 2 to 3 ha which are leased typically for 3 to 10 years from a
communal group. The small farmer on leased land faces severe constraints and
in most cases attempts only crops with the least risk and capital outlay such
as sugarcane and therefore new crops or crops w-ith uncertain marketing
arrangements such 2s non-traditional export crops are difficult to int:oduce.
22.       Sugar Production.  Sugar accounts for about half of the value of
agricultural production and makes up two-thirds of Fiji's export earnings.
Sugarcane is grown on about 60,0CO ha under rainfed conditions by about 21,000
farmers. All cane is harvested by hand and is milled into raw sugar at the
four Fiji Sugar Corporation (a Covernment-controlled corporation) mills under
revenue sharing contracts whereby approximately 70 percent of the revenues
accrue to the farmer. About 5% of the raw sugar production is consumed
locally and the balance is exported to various overseas markets. Sugar



production increased significantly from 1974 (301,000 tons) to 1979 (473,000
tons) due to: improved world sugar prices; the increased use of subsidized
fertilizer; improved land drainage; legislation extending the maximum lease
period on cane lands from n0 to 30 years; and the development of the Bank-
financed Seaqaqa project.-   Despite declining world market sugar prices
following 1980, the Fiji Sugar Corporation was still able to achieve
significantly higher than world market prices due to the skillful selling of
most of its exports in preferential markets such as the EEC, USA, Malaysia and
Singapore markets. Sugar production, assisted by rewarding returns to the
farmer, remained at the 450,000 ton level until 1983 when a cyclone followed
by a prolonged drought reduced outpuc to 276,000 tons and produced a loss for
the Fiji Sugar Corporation, the first in over 10 years. Production rebounded
in 1984 with 480,000 tons, but net returns are down due to the loss or
reduction of several preferential contracts and a major portion of the
production must be sold on the world market at about US?951ton, significantly
below costs of about US$240/ton. In January 1985, Fiji sustained damages from
two destructive cyclones; fortunately they occurred at the very end of the
sugarcane crushing season and there was no significant damage to the standing
crop and only minor damages were experienced at the four mills. The long-term
outlook for sugar is not encouraging due to the forecast shrinking of the
preferential markets from inroads by sugar substitutes. As the commodity
which traditionally provides the major part of Fiji's employment and most of
its export earnings, sugar cannot be easily abandoned in the absence of viable
alternatives which would provide equivalent or better benefits. The current
Government posture of neither encouraging nor discouraging increased sugar
production is correct, and the industry itseLf shouLd concentrate on achieving
better marketing positions and on obtaining operational yield and cost
improvements rather than expanding production. Although the Fiji sugar
industry is reasonably cost-efficient when compared to other countries, there
are still some operational savings which could be implemented such as the
installation of a bulk fertilizer mixing facility to supply the needs of the
industry as welL as all other agriculture.
23.       Other Agriculture and Fisheries.  Copra is the second most important
commercial crop in Fiji. However, the replanting and maintenance of existing
stands have generally been neglected, with the result that more chan half of
the trees are overage and consequently produce low yields. With tne view to
replace imports of rice (constituting about half of dcmestic consumption), the
Government has been providing incentives in the form of subsidized fertilizer
and credit to grow paddy, although there has not been any significant change
in production in the past seven years. Recently, however, depressed sugar
prices have resulted in some shifting from cane to paddy and the Government is
projecting rice self-sufficiency within three to five years. The production
of other crops, with the exception of ginger, has not experienced any
appreciable expansion in the last seven years. Ginger production (grown for
export) has increased from essentially none in 1976 to approximately 4,000
tons in 1984. The Government has an export diversification program under the
Ministry of Primary Industries which emphasizes the development of tropical
1/ Loan 1226-FIJ, Sugar Development Project.



fruits and vegetables, but quality standards, transport problems and market
uncertainties tend to discourage small-scale entrepreneurs from entering into
these new ventures even though the commodity to be exported may be produced in
Fiji now. One encouraging aspect of the diversification program was the
recent establishment by the Government of a pilot export orchard and packing
facility of mango and papaya adjacent to the Nadi airport to promote the
cultivation and shipment of these fruits to Japan and to New Zealand.
24.       Fiji's livestock production is close to self-sufficiency following
successful efforts in the early 1970s to organize and develop breeding herds
and pastures. After eight consecutive years of continued growth, the
commercial fish catch in Fijian waters declined in 1984 reflecting a world-
wide pattern of reduced demand and low prices for tuna. Ika, the Government-
owned fishing corporation, in response to the decline has reduced its fishing
fleet from eight to three vessels and plans to convert the existing pole-and-
line method vessels to the more efficient purse seiner type.
The Manufacturing Sector
25.       In Fiji, the contribution of the manufacturing sector excluding
sugar is relatively small, accounting for less than 10Z of GDP. Manufacturing
is concentrated in resource-based processing such as food, paper products,
cement, handicrafts, fishing vessels and wood products. Excluding sugar,
industrial production measured by physical output since 1979 has shown only
about a 1% average annual growch rate. Examples of slow growth rates are seen
in agro-processing such as the manufacture of coconut oil, where production
has increased from 15,000 tons in 1979 to 16,000 tons in 1983, an average
annual increase of slightly over 1Z. The output of finished wood products has
actually declined by 12% over the 1979 to 1983 period.
26.       With a view to promoting the growth of Fiji's industrial sector, the
Government in 1981 created the Economic Development Board (EDB) under the
Ministry of Economic Planning and Development. EDB has been assigned the
central role of promoting foreign and local investment. It was intended that
EDB would serve as a one-stop contact point for potential investors providing
information and extension services as well as facilitating investors' dealings
with ministries. The Government has also instituted a number of incentives
for potential investors with no discrimination between foreign and domestic
investors. These include income tax concessions for up to eight years; carry
over of losses for six years after the expiration of tax exemptions;
accelerated depreciation of capital assets; import duty concessions on
imported plant and equipment requirements; and reduced tariffs on the imparta-
tion of raw materials.
27.       In developing new products for export, it must be realized that Fiji
is disadvantaged in its distance to the principal world markets and in its
--latively high wage srructure. Fiji does, however, have reasonable proximity
access to Australia and New Zealand and, under the SPARTECA Agreement, Fiji
enjoys duty-free entry to Australia and New Zealand for its resource-based
products. EDB, in its promotion of new export items, has drawn up a total of
132 potential projects; in 1982 a World Bank/UNDP cooperative program study,
in collaboration with EDB, drew up detailed plans for five specific priority



- 9 -
agro-industrial investment opportunities in the context of increasing export
earnings or reducing food imports. Four of the proposals covering -nago,
papaya, maize and onion ventures are now being implemented while the fifth, a
pineapple canning project, is still being reviewed.
The Tourism Sector
28.       Tourism contributes about 13% of GDP and approximately 25% of total
foreign exchange earnings, which means that tourism represents Fiji's second
ranked foreign exchange earner, after sugar. While tourism provides direct
employment to only 6% of the labor force, its indirect contribution to
employment is significantly larger. The year 1984 was a remarkably successful
year for tourism with a record breaking 230,000 visitor arrivals and earnings
of F$161 million, representing a 20% increase, reflecting a strong recovery
from the setback suffered by tourist facilities in 1983 from cyclone damages.
Despite damages incurred by the two cyclones in January 1985, the short-term
prospects for tourism are encouraging, with an estimated 500 rooms to be added
during 1985 to the existing tourist accommodation inventory of 3,900 rooms.
The Fiji Visitors Bureau, the Government agency which promotes tourism, is
forecasting for 1985 a total of 250,000 tourist arrivals.
The Financial Sector
29.       The banking system in Fiji is supervised by the Reserve Bank of
Fiji, formerly known as the Central Monetary Authority. The Reserve Bank
performs the functions of a central bank such as: advising the Government on
monetary policy; issuing government bonds; borrowing externally for the
Government; and fixing minimum deposit rates and maximum loan rates for
commercial banks. There are at present six commercial banks in Fiji: the
Government-owned National Bank of Fiji and five subsidiaries of foreign banks,
namely the Bank of New Zealand, Westpac, Barclays, the Bank of Baroda and the
Australia and New Zealand Banking Group. The National Bank of Fiji accounts
for approximately 15% of the commercial banks' total deposits and loans. Most
of the private sector credit demand is essentially for short-term wholesale
and retail requirements. At the end of September 1984, the assets of the
commercial banks totaled the equivalent of approximately US$400 million. The
ceiling on lending rates as of January 31, 1985 was 13.5% and the minimum rate
for one- to three- month deposits was 6%.
30.       Two non-bank financial institutions, the Fiji Development Bank (FDB)
and the Fiji National Provident Fund tFNPF), make up a substantial part of the
formal financial sector. FNPF's current minimum loan size is F$250,000 as
against FDB's average loan size of only F$11,600. The markets/customers being
addressed by these two non-bank financial institutions are separate and thus
complement each other in meeting the credit requirements of various sectors.
FNPF also invests in FDB bonds. FDB, with assets equivalent to US$93 million,
is Government-owned and receives its resources from Government equity
subscriptions, domestic bond issues and external loans from international
lending institutions such as the Asian Development Bank and the European
Investment Bank. FDB provides long-term finance to the private sector in
agriculture and industry. FNPF, the largest single entity in the financial
sector, with assets equivalent to approximately US$400 million, is made up of



- 10 -
retirement contributions from most public and private sector organizations
which remit 7% of their employees' gross wages and salaries plus a matching
employer share to the fund. FNPF's policies require the earmarking of 50% of
its funds to the central Government and the Housing Authority, 20% to public
enterprises including FDB and 30X to the private sector.  In the last four
years the FNPF has grown, due to the inclusion of Government workers in the
scheme, at an average growth rate of 19% to the point where it now actjounts
for 5% of the country's GDP.  Due to the combination of the Government's need
to finance deficits and the apparent lack of sufficient investment
opportunities in the private sector, FNPF's share of loans outstanding with
Government entities (55%) and public enterprises (22%) has increased.
31.       The other parts of the financial sector consist of:  a small equity
market served by the Suva Stock Exchange, which in 1984 had only 31 transac-
tions representing a value of only US$21,000; and unregulated consumer credit
schemes for installment buying which are generally operated by the individual
suppliers at high interest rates since commercial banks cannot charge more
than 13.5%, a rate which is too low to compensate the banks for high-risk
consumer credit.
32.       Interest Rates.  Minimum and maximum interest rates for loans and
deposits are set by the Reserve Bank of Fiji. Maximum loan rates have been
set at 13.5 since 1981 while the average commercial bank interest rate yield
has steadily increased from 11.9% in 1981 to 13.0% in 1984 as old loans
mature. Loan and term deposit rates do not float but are fixed at signing.
Deposit rates have also not changed from 1981 and are presently 6% for sight
deposits and 6.5% for three- to six-month time deposits, with rates upward to
10 for time deposits of 3 years or longer. These rates compare to an actual
and projected inflation rate of approximately 5%.
33.       FDB's interest rate charges closely follow commercial bank rates for
industrial and commercial loans with loan rates ranging from 12.5% to 13% for
long-term industrial loans and from 13% to 13.5% for commercial loans, which
are mostly short term. FDB is the only bank in Fiji with specific rates for
agriculture, ranging from 11% to 11.5%. For most categories of agricultural
lending the Government pays FDB, on behalf of the subborrower, a portion of
the interest. This practice is seen in the case of Loans intended for agri-
cultural land development where half of the 11% interest rate charged by FDB
on loan amounts below US$17,000 is paid by the Government, giving an effective
interest rate to the subborrower on the US$17,000 portion of the loan of
5.5%. Loans for farm tractors, implements and on-farm housing are also
subsidized but only to the extent of 30% of the 11.5% interest rate on loan
amounts below US$6,000, giving an effective rate to the subborrower of 8%.
The Government considers the subsidy as an essential part of its policy of
encouraging development to offset the declining trend of agricultural
production and constitutes a major incentive mainly to smallholders.
Nevertheless, the subsidized rate is nearly equal to the inflation rate and
has not caused any major distortions in resource allocation.
34.       Prior IBRD or ADB Operations with FDB.  FDB has hiad some exposure to
the Bank through the Sugar Development Project (Loan 1226-FIJ) where it chan-
neled approximately US$6 million in Bank funds for on-farm development activi-



- 11 -
ties. The loan became effective in July 1976 and was closed in April 1984.
According to the Project Completion Report for the loan, FDB accomplished the
project's credit operations, satisfactorily handling the loan accounts for
some 800 Seaqaqa farmers. ADB has made a previous loan to FDB (Loan No. 174-
FIJ) for US$2 million which became effective in March 1974 and was closed in
January 1977. The loan financed 145 subprojects generating an estimated 1,100
jobs and all aspects of the project were satisfactory according to an ADB Post
Evaluation Report. However, the report did identify a need for in-house
technical capability to evaluate complex subprojects. In the period 1970 to
1983, ADB provided four technical assistance grants totaling US$0.3 million to
FDB for institutional reorganization, training programs and developing
operational strategies and guidelines.
Bank Strategy for Sector and Rationale for Project
35.       The Bank's previous projects, such as the Sugar Development Project,
have mainly had the goaLs of promoting export production or import substi-
tution as well as alleviating income disparities. The proposed project would
focus on the same goals through the financing of long-term development sub-
projects mainly in the private sector. In agriculture, the project would
assist smallholders in expanding and diversifying their production, both for
export and for domestic consumption. In industry, the bulk of the loan would
be utilized to support agro-industrial and tourism subprojects, but other
categories of manufacturing and service industries would be eligible. The
project would thus support primarily balance-of payments and employment
objectives. The project would also consider the rehabilitation of some public
enterprises, such as the state-owned fishing and shipyard corporation, for
financing on a case-by-case basis.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The p-;oposed loan would be the seventh cofinancing operation in the
South Pacific undertaken between ADB and the Bank since 1982 and the third
cofinancing of a development finance institution project (Development Bank of
the Solomon Islands, 1981 and Development Bank of Western Samoa, 1985).
37.       The project was prepared by ADB and FDB, and was appraised by ADB
with support from the Bank in January-February 1985. Negotiations were held
in Manila from April 24 to 26, 1985. The Fijian delegation was led by the
Honorable Mosese Qionibaravi, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. ADB's
Appraisal Report (No. FIJ-Ap:8), dated May 1985, is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.



- 12 -
Project Objectives and Description
38.       Project Objectives.  The objectives of the project are:
(a) to support the institution building efforts with respect to FDB in
the area of the recent organizational and policy changes recommended
by an ADB technical assistance mission in L983;
(b) to transfer capital and technical support for industry (particularly
agro-processing), agriculture and related service activities; and
(c) to improve the efficiency and orientation of selected publicly owned
enterprises.
39.       Project Description.  The project would supply the estimated foreign
exchange requirements (US$16.0 million) for FDB during a two-year commitment
period from mid-1985 to mid-1987. FDB, with a loan portfolio of approximately
US$85 million, is 100% owned by the Government and, as the only development
bank in Fiji, finances or takes equity positions in a wide variety of
enterprises from basic agriculture to tourism and retailing. FDB is operated
effectively by experienced managers and has corLsistently achieved a net
profit. Its loan arrears are manageable, with less than 102 of its loan
portfolio in arrears.
40.       The project consists of financing for (a) the foreign exchange
component of subloans to approximately 600 industrial enterprises, including
agro-processing, and related service activities; and (b) the foreign exchange
component of subloans to about 1,500 agricultural enterprises. Typically,
subborrowers in the agricultural category would be small-scale farmers or
fishermen who now have annual incomes, after cash costs, of approximately
US$3,500 per family, equivalent to US$614 per capita. Based on the actual
results of subprojects financed under ADB's first loan with FDB, the credit
funds should yield an average financial rate of return of 20% and an average
economic rate of return of 25%. Included in the project scope would be
financing for selected state-owned enterprises. The types of enterprises
eligible for credit are outlined in para. 63.
The Fiji Development Bank
41.       Institutional Aspects.  FDB was established on July 1, 1967 under
the FDB Act of 1966 as a Government-owned autonomous institution with its own
Board of Directors. FDB's authorized capital is F$50 million, of which F$20.5
million has been paid-in and held entirely by the Government as of
December 31, 1984. In addition to providing paid-in capital, the Government
assists FDB in resource mobilization from foreign borrowings and bond issues,
assuming the exchange risk on FDB's foreign borrowings and granting it
exemption from income tax. FDB's administrative budget is subject to approval
by the Minister of Finance who also is charged with the overall supervision of
FDB's activities.
42.       FDB receives overall policy and operational guidance from its nine-
member Board of Directors, all of whom are appointed by the Minister of



- 13 -
Finance in accordance with the FDB Act. The private sector is well repre-
sented on FDB's Board with five directors including its Chairman. FDB's Board
meets regularly once a month to set policies, consider equity investments and
approve all loans over F$100,000. FDB's chief executive is the Managing
Director who is assisted by the General Manager of Operations and the General
Manager of Finance and Business Development. The incumbent Managing Director
has had a long career in civil service prior to joining FDB in 1983 and the
present two General Managers are both long-standing FDB employees. FDB,
through the Chairman of the Board, will promptly inform the Bank of any pro-
posed new appointment to the position of Managing Director (Schedule, C.ll of
the draft Project Agreement). Effective since April 1984, FDB has been
restructured to reflect the recommendations of ADB-financed consultants which
brought about the formation of new departments to handle FDB's expanding
activities in special lending schemes, electronic data processing, training
and loan recovery. This restructuring provides a satisfactory framework for
coordination and control of FDB operating activities. Currently, FDB has nine
branch offices located in the major towns and operates ten agencies which
operate on a part-time basis.
43.       As of year-end 1984, FDB's staff totaled 160, consisting of 101
professionals and 59 support staff as compared to a total of only 42 in 1973,
which is indicative of FDB's growth in the last 10 years.  Staff turnover is
low at less than 3 percent per year, reflecting the adequate staff remunera-
tion and job security at FDB. Although FDB professional staff is well
balanced with accountants, economists, agriculturists and other specialists,
there is no engineer at FDB. Realizing the need for an engineer to evaluate
the increasing number of technical aspects of projects, FDB will hire by year-
end 1985 a qualified engineer as a regular staff member (Schedule, C.12 of the
draft Project Agreement). FDB has given increasing emphasis to staff training
with the appointment of a full-time training officer in 1983. Its training
program is satisfactory, consisting of in-house training courses, external
courses at the local university or training institutes and overseas training
programs.
44.       Scope of Operations.  As a multipurpose development bank, FDB
extends its assistance as mainly long-term finance and to a lesser extent
equity capital to projects in agriculture (including fisheries), industry,
mining and to the service sectors including transport, communications and
tourism. In addition to the agricultural and industrial/commercial
operations, which make up over 90Z of the lending amount, FDB operates a
special loan scheme, which is intended to develop entrepreneurial skills among
indigenous Fijians, whereby loans of up to F$100,000 are given to qualifying
Fijians at concessional rates and with less collateral in turn for the
Government's bearing any loss on individual loans up to F$50,000. FDB has two
wholly-owned subsidiaries: Suva Stock Exchange Ltd., which provides a trading
floor for locally listed stock; and FDB Nominees Ltd., which is empowered to
undertake underwriting, share placement and securities operations. Neither
subsidiary has full-time staff or extensive activity. Promotion of FDB's main
activity of providing long-term finance is carried out through newspaper
advertising and other media. Promotion of lending for small-scale farming is
done in conjunction with the Ministry of Primary Industries, which identifies
potential borrowers and prepares the subloan applications. Industrial sector



- 14 -
lending is closely coordinated with the Economic Development Board, which is
the Government agency responsible for industrial promotion.
45.       Policies.  FDB's Statement of Operating Strategy and General
Business Policy lays down the scope of operations, general policies and proce-
dures, financial guidelines and policies regarding provisions and reserves.
The statement includes: providing financing and equity participation in
agricultural and industrial enterprises; contributing to the Government's
planning processes; developing new financing schemes; and providing business
management -ounsel. It also emphasizes the development role of FDB and
provides satisfactory guidelines for sound banking practices. FDB will change
the statement only after mutual consultation and agreement between the Bank
and FDB (Schedule, C.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       Procedures.  FDB's current operating procedures are adequately
described in its Operations Manual which provides guidance to staff in loan
processing, documentation, procurement, disbursement and supervision of
projects financed. Branch offices are responsible for loan processing as well
as supervision. Loans over F$3,000 to F$12,000, depending on the size of the
branch office, are further reviewed and approved by the head office. FDB has
had some difficulty evaluating the technical aspects of projects and the
addition to its staff of a qualified engineer (para. 43) will improve subloan
appraisals. Financial or economic rates of return are not normally calculated
for smaller subprojects. Rate of return and financial projection requirements
under the proposed project are outlined in para. 65.
47.       Normal project supervision is carried out by branch office
personnel, but when loans in excess of F$50,000 show arrears of over F$5,000
for more than three months, their control is passed to the Loan Recovery
Unit. The Unit assumes responsibility and initiates intensified monitoring
with quarterly reports to the Board detailing the control measures being
enacted. In order to assist small-scale borrowers with operational problems,
FDB operates its own Management Advisory Department for industrial borrowers
and arranges for the assistance of extension officers from the Ministry of
Primary Industries for agricultural borrowers.  While FDB's project super-:
vision procedures are adequate to supervise a large number of small borrowers
with a limited staff, they could be further improved by organizing supervision
towards ex ante problem prevention rather than ex post problem solving.
Currently-r  supervision is intensified only when the borrower falls in
arrears. FDB management has indicated that it intends to move towards
preventive supervision for its larger projects.
48.       Operational Performance.  FDB's operations have been concentrated on
providing loans for medium- and long-term investment. In the four-year period
from 1981 to 1984, new equity investments totaled only F$200,000 while loan
approvals exceeded F$72 million. FDB's annual loan approvals were maintained
at a near constant level of F$16 million per year for the three years to June
1983, with a sectoral mix of approximately 40Z agricultural loans, 52Z
industrial/commercial loans and 8Z loans to Fijians. However, during FY83/84
which began July 1, 1983, loan approvals in the industrial/ commercial
category increased by over 50% as a result of a more aggressive approach in
identifying and promoting new lending opportunities stemming largely from the



- 15 -
leadership of the current Managing Director appointed in March 1983 as well as
a general increase in industrial investment activity. Equity investment by
FDB increased by F$4.3 million in FY84/85 due mainly to the acquisition of 30%
of the shares of the Carlton Brewery (Fiji) Ltd. for F$3.5 million. The
brewery was acquired principally to increase the domestic ownership of the
company with the strategy that the acquired shares would soon be resold in
smaller lots to the public. FDB plans no further major acquisitions, but
envisages equity investments in the F$200,000 per year range in the future.
Equity investments make up less than 5% of FDB's assets and are detailed in
Appendix 16 of ADB's Appraisal Report.
49.       Agriculture makes up approximateLy 75% of the loan approvals by
number of loans, but only 40X by value, emphasizing the reLatively low average
loan size for agriculture (F$4,500) as compared to industry (F$21,500). Agri-
cultural lending is mainly to small-scale farmers engaged in sugarcane or
diversified farming. Agricultural financing under the project would be for
long-term development subprojects such as the establishment of new plantings,
purchase of farm equipment and the provision of on-farm storage facilities.
Industrial lending covers a wide spectrum, but manufacturing, including agro-
processing, makes up approximately 25% of the total approvals by value in this
category. Despite efforts by Government planners to de-centralize devel-
opment, the main island of Viti Levu receives approximately 80Z of lending
volume and, of the balance, approximately three-fourths goes to the next
largest island of Vanua Levu.
50.       Financial Position.  FDB has a strong balance sheet with F$107
million in assets and a long-term debt to equity ratio (D/E ratio) of 2.24:1
as of December 31, 1984. FDB agreed at negotiations to the maintenance of a
3:1 long-term debt to equity ceiling (Section 3.06 of the draft Project
Agreement). FDB's current ratio has been a very favorable 5.1 to 1 average
for the last four fiscal years. Assets have grown at the annual rate of 22%
per year for the same period. Debt service coverage for the last four years
has been adequate, averaging 2.7 times while FDB's current assets have
averaged 23Z of total assets, although most of the growth has been in the last
18 months. FDB has had a long history of profitable operations, earning in
the last four and one half fiscal years an average return on equity of 7.6%
before bad debt provisions and 4.9% after provisions. The relatively modest
but consistent returns on equity in the past underline the high operating
costs (3.4Z of portfolio vs. approximately 2% for commercial banks) required
to administer a portfolio of many small loans (average size F$11,600).
Although FDB is not highly leveraged with a D/E ratio of less than 2.5:1, its
principal source of external debt in the past has been the local bond market
which has become more costly and now spreads can be achieved only through the
blending of bond funds with increasing amounts of equity and lower cost funds
from international lenders (para. 53).
51.       FDB's loan arrears at December 31, 1984 were F$8 million, or 8.5% of
total loan portfolio, which is acceptable, but represents a deterioration
compared to total arrears of 4.9% four years earlier. The deterioration has
been caused by a number of factors including a destructive cyclone in 1983, a
general downturn of the Fijian economy since 1981 and weaknesses in loan
supervision, which have now been improved with the establishment of the Loan



- 16 -
Recovery Unit. FDB's loan supervision procedures have been reorganized, and
good control of the account*s in arrears has been established. Loan collection
performance hag improved to an estimated 63Z from the 602 level experienced in
1983-84. The agricultural portfoLio shows significantly lower arrears at 5.2%
than the industrial portfolio at 11.2Z. The current provision for bad and
doubtful loans amounts to 5.2% of total portfolio, or 501 of total arrears,
and is considered adequate.
52.       Accounting, Audit and Financial Controls.  FDB's accounts are
maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
managed by qualified accountants with good financial control. The computer-
ized accounting system is centralized and has recently been upgraded to allow
efficient processing of a wide range of timely accounting and managerial
information. The FDB Act requires the accounts of FDB to be audited by a
certified independent public accountant approved by the Minister of Finance.
The previous and the current FY83/84 audit have given unqualified opinions on
FDB financial statements. FDB has an Internal Audit Unit consisting of two
staff members who report directly to the Managing Director.
53.       Resource Mobilization.  Over the four-year period of FY80/81 and
FY83/84, FDB mobilized a total of F$37.2 million, consisting of F$0.9 million
in foreign debt and F$36.3 million in Local FDB bonds. In addition, equity
inputs from the Government have totaled F$9.9 million, or 21% of the total
mobilized funds. More than 60% of the FDB bonds or F$22.6 million were
mobilized in FY83/84, in response to increased investment demand, at costly
interest rates (l1+Z) which do not permit adequate spreads on the invested
funds. In the future FDB plans to seek out lower cost long-term loan funds
through a blending of local bonds and foreign borrowings from EEC, ADB and
IBRD.
54.       Prospects and Resource Requirements.  The projected lending opera-
tions for FDB for FY1984/85 to FY1988/89 call for a 15% per year annual growth
rate, which is probably optimistic considering FDB's flat growth rate in the
FY80/1B-FY82/83 period. However, taking into consideration FDB's rate of
growth in the last 18 months (40%/year), its existing pipeline and its more
aggressive management, the forecast increased lending volume is achievable.
Of FDB's total projected approvals of F$175.9 million during the five
financial years ending June 30, 1989, industrial/commercial lending would
account for 54% by amount followed by agriculture (36%) and the Loans to
Fijians Scheme (10%). Agriculture's share of FDB's approvals is forecast to
decrease from the traditional 40% share due to its less than optimistic
outlook in the next four years.
55.       FDB projects that during the FY85/86-FY88/89 period, its external
resource needs will total F$89.0 million which will be mobilized from the
following sources: FDB bonds, F$58.6 million; ADB/IBRD/EIB foreign
borrowings, F$16.2 million; and F$14.2 million of Government equity (including
the US$3.0 million of IBRD funds passed to FDB as Government equity). The
foreign borrowings would fund the foreign exchange requirements of loan
approvals made during FY85/86 and FY86/87. FDB has already secured a loan of
US$2.5 million from the European Investment Bank (EIB).



- 17 -
56.       Projected Financial Position and Performance.  FDB's financial
performance and structure are expected to improve over the next four years.
Net income is projected to grow steadily from the F$1.2 million of FY84/85 to
F$2.7 million by FY88/89, representing a 22X average growth rate. The return
on equity, before provisions, for the four-year period would average 7.8%,
improving slightly from the 7.6% actual experienced in the period 1981 to
1984. Interest spread would increase from the 4.4% average experienced in
FY80/81 to FY83/84 to an average of 4.6Z during the period FY84/85 to
FY88/89. The long-term debt to equity ratio would remain well within the
contractual limit of 3:1 in the next four years with a maximum of 2.11:1
reached for FY86187. In the next four fiscal years, FDB's current ratio is
*        forecast to average 4.5 to 1 while its asset growth is expected to average 10%
per year. Debt coverage will remain adequate at 1.89 times during the next
four fiscal years.
Project Cost and Financing
57.       Total project cost is estimated at US$40.0 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would be US$16.0 million or 402 of the total. The
project consists of a credit component comprising eligible agricultural and
industrial subprojects committed during FDB's fiscal year FY85/86 and
FY86/87. The estimated foreign exchange costs of the project would be
financed by the proposed Bank loan of US$6.5 million, thy proposed ADB loan of
US$7.0 million and an EIB loan of about US$2.5 million.2   The ADB and EIB
loans plus US$3.5 million of the Bank loan would fund the estimated
US$13.0 million foreign exchange requirements of eligible industrial
subprojects while US$3.0 million of the Bank loan would supply the foreign
exchange needs of eligible agricultural subprojects. The effectiveness of the
ADB loan would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 6.01
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Features of the Proposed Loan
58.       Relending Arrangements.  The proposed Bank loan of US$6.5 million
would be made to Fiji, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
Government would relend US$3.5 million of the loan proceeds to FDB at a fixed
interest rate equivalent to that of the ADB loan (10.25X). The Government
would pass on the balance of the loan proceeds, US$3.0 million, to FDB as a
Government contribution to FDB's equity. Bank funding of part of FDB's equity
requirements will assist the Government in helping to meet the requirements of
the productive sectors during a period when there are significant budgetary
constraints. Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement onlending the US$3.5
million and the equity agreement for the US$3.0 million would be conditions of
2/   The EIB loan became effective in February 1985.  The loan will be
utilized for financing industrial, fishing and tourism projects.
Repayment of the EIB loan will be over a 12-year period including a 4-
year grace period at an interest rate of 6.85% p.a. The foreign exchange
risk will be borne by the Government for which FDB will pay a fee of
1% p.a.



- 18 -
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Government would bear the foreign exchange and variable
interest risk of the proposed Bank loan as well as the commitment fee on the
US$3.0 million to be passed to FDB as equity. The portion of the Bank loan
channeled to FDB as debt and the portion of the Bank loan passed to FDB as
Government equity would be drawn down on a pari passu basis for all subloans
to be financed from Bank funding. ReLending arrangements with regard to the
ADB loan would be generally consistent with those of the Bank except that the
ADB loan would be channeled to FDB directly and the ADB loans would not be
used for agricultural subloans.
59.       Amortization Schedule.  The proposed loan would have a fixed
amortization schedule and would be repaid over a 15-year period including 3
years of grace. The fixed amortization schedule would be more suitable to
FDB's credit operation which is characterized by many small subloans. A
"back-to-back" amortization schedule based on the aggregate of the subloans
amortization would be difficult to administer. Individual subloans would have
a maximum maturity of 15 years, including a reasonable grace period.
60.       Relending Rate.  FDB would lend the proceeds of the proposed loan
according to its standard interest rate structure for subloans which at
present ranges from 11Z to 13.5%. The proposed interest rate structure is
adequate also to cover the cost incurred by FDB in processing subloan
applications and supervising subprojects. FDB's current rate structure, which
calls for agricultural interest rates of 11% to 11.5% and industrial rates of
13.5%, is expected to be positive in real terms, given the actual domestic
inflation rate for 1984 (6Z) and the projected domestic inflation rates of 5%
during 1985-88.  The industrial Lending rates under the project are the same
rates charged by commercial banks. FDB is alone in offering specific rates
(11% to 11.5%) for agriculture. FDB agreed to consult with the Bank prior to
making any changes to its interest rate structure during the period of the
proposed loan (Schedule, B.4 of the draft Project Agreement).
61.       Subloan Ceiling.  Under ADB's first loan to the Fiji Development
Bank, which became effective in March 1974 and was closed in January 1977, FDB
had a subloan ceiling of US$250,000. For the proposed project, the ceiling
would be raised to US$500,000 (Schedule, B.5 of the draft Project Agreement)
reflecting FDB's growth in maturity from 1974 when the average subloan size
was US$4,400 and FDB loan portfolio was only US$4.0 million as contrasted to
10 years later (December 31, 1984) where the average subloan size was
approximately US$10,000 and the loan portfolio had grown to US$83 million.
62.       Free Limit.  FDB's free limit under its first ADB loan was
US$40,000. Under the proposed project, the free limit would be increased to
US$80,000 (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Based on the size
distribution of FDB's subloans approved during 1984, approximately 3% of the
number of subloans and 452 of the amount committed would be "A" subloans
requiring prior Bank/ADB approval under the proposed project. In addition,
any subloan to a public sectcr enterprise regardless of amount would be
subject to prior approval by thie Bank/ADB (Schedule, B.3 of the draft Project
Agreement). These levels of review are considered appropriate given the
quality of FDB's loan appraisals.



- 19 -
63.       Eligible Enterprises.  The proposed Bank loan would have two credit
components: industrial credit, including agro-industry, and agricultural
credit. Eligible enterprises under the industrial component would include:
manufacturing, food processing, mining, transportation, tourism, and all
developmental service enterprises associated with these industriaL
activities. Agricultural enterprises would include enterprises engaged in
agriculture, forestry, fisheries, livestock, on-farm storage and farm-to-
market transport of agricultural produce.
64.       Agricultural and fisheries subprojects financed by Bank funds will
be subject to the following conditions:
(a) purchases of livestock can make up not more than 70% of a
subproject's cost;
(b) on-farm housing can make up not more than 50% of a subproject's
cost;
(c) land purchase costs cannot be financed by Bank funds;
Cd) fishing vessels over 10 m in length must have marine insurance
at least equivalent to the value of their propulsion system;
and
Ce)  fishing vessels over 15 m in length must undergo an annual
inspection by a marine architect to certify seaworthiness.
Agreement on the above eligibility criteria was reached at negotiations
(Schedule, B.6 of the draft Project Agreement).
65.       Calculation of Subproject Financial and Economic Rate of Return.
FDB will prepare and include financial projections for three years (from the
time of compLetion of subproject) for subloans above US$50,000 equivalent and
calculate the financial rate of return (FRR) for subloans above the free
limit. Where the subloan amount exceeds US$250,000 equivalent, FDB will
calculate the economic rate of return (ERR) and will also undertake a
sensitivity analysis on the FRR, taking into account the critical variables
which would have an impact on project viability.
66.       Procurement.  Procurement under the proposed project would be
according to FDB procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank and call for
local and international shopping, including competitive bidding, on as wide a
scope as possible depending on the specific requirements. International
competitive bidding is not considered appropriate due to the large number of
small subloans envisaged and the very small size of the individual contracts
involved. Most of the agricultural subloans would be for standard activities
such as land clearing and planting and would be compared by FDB agricultural
staff against actual costs for comparable jobs. Quotations and specifications
for industrial equipment and machinery would be reviewed by FDB staff
including an industrial engineer who would be hired by FDB by year-end 1985.



- 20 -
67.       Disbursement.  Disbursements under the proposed Bank loan would be
for two purposes: industrial credit and agricultural credit. The industrial
credit category would be disbursed pari passu, two-thirds ADB loan co one-
third Bank loan, for:
(a)  100Z of the foreign exchange cost of goods and services directly
imported by subborrowers;
(b)  with respect to contracts awarded to local suppliers or contractors
where the foreign exchange cost cannot be precisely determined and
the procurement costs are less than US$75,000:
(i) for building construction and civil works contracts, an amount
equal to 60Z of the total contract value; and
(ii)  for imported machinery, equipment and other items purchased
locaLly, an amount equal to 75X of the total cost of such
goods.
(c)  with respect to contracts for imported machinery, equipment and
other items purchased locally, and costing more than the equivalent
of US$75,000, FDB will submit, together with the relevant subloan
application, evidence of or other suitable basis for determining the
foreign exchange cost involved in a particular contract or project.
The agricultural credit category would be disbursed entirely from the IBRD
loan on the basis of:
(a)  100% of the foreign exchange costs of goods and services directly
imported by subborrowers; or
(b)  50Z of the amount financed (representing the estimated foreign
exchange cost) of locally procured goods and services including cash
payment for labor costs.
68.       Disbursement would be made against full documentation for all
subloans in the industrial category and for agricultural subloans in excess of
the free limit (above US$80,000). For agricultural subloans below the free
limit, Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) would be used. FDB would furnish the
Bank, from time to time, with the usual information on all subloans approved
under the SOE procedure.  The proposed Bank loan is expected to be fully
committed in two years and the loan would be fully disbursed in four years,
which is consistent with the disbursement profile for the IDF sector in the
region. The last date for receipt of subprojects would be two years after the
loan effectiveness date (Section 2.02(c) of the draft Project Agreement) and
the closing date would be four years after loan effectiveness (Section 2.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Special iccounts or revolving funds would not be
utilized at FDB's request. The Bank would administer and supervise all
aspects of the agriculcural lending category, while ADB would administer and
supervise all aspects of the industrial lending operations.



- 21 -
69.       Auditing.  FDB's accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and approved by the Minister of Finance (Section 3.04
of the draft Project Agreement). FDB would submit audited statements no later
than five months after the close of its fiscal year. The SOEs would be
subject to audit by auditors acceptable to the Bank and supporting documen-
tation would be available for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
Project Benefits and Risks
70.       Benefits.  FDB is Fiji's only development bank for both agricultural
and industrial development, the two principaL productive sectors. Providing
foreign exchange financial resources to FDB and strengthening it institu-
tionally through support for the recent organizational reforms and from the
addition of a qualified staff engineer will have a direct positive impact on
the most important sectors of the country. In addition, as the project will
finance Government-owned enterprise on a case-by-case basis, it will afford an
opportunity to review public enterprise reform proposals. The impact will be
widespread as a high proportion of the beneficiaries are expected to be small
farmers and entrepreneurs. Utilizing data from a FDB survey of 39 industrial
projects initiated in 1981/82, the US$3.5 million portion of the Bank loan
allocated to the industrial category should generate annual foreign exchange
savings/earnings of approximately US$5 million per year while providing an
estimated 220 new jobs. Ex post data on the ADB's first project with FDB
which provided financing for industrial and agricultural projects showed that
subprojects averaged a 20% financial rate of return and a 25% economic rate of
return. No other recent survey data is available which would indicate the
likely impact of the US$3 million allocated to agriculture, although it is
thought that the results from agriculture would be higher than industry with
respect to the average cost of incremental jobs created.
71.       Risks.  Project risks are related to the lack of international
competitiveness of many Fijian enterprises, in terms of pricing, product
design and quality. This problem is largely the result of the small size of
the local market, high transportation costs, lack of trained manpower and the
under-development of local industries supplying needed inputs.  Since Fiji has
maintained a free trade policy and has relied heavily on imported consumer as
well as capital goods, such risks are well known to local entrepreneurs. As
attested by its manageable loan arrears, FDB has been very successful in
assessing and selecting subprojects which have a comparative advantage.
Regarding environmental considerations, the Bank's guidelines for the use of
pesticides and herbicides were discussed during negotiations and compliance
will be monitored by Bank Sueprvision Missions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between Fiji and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and FDB, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors.



- 22 -
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include: (i) the
effectiveness of the ADB loan (para. 57), and (ii) the signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement and the equity agreement (para 58).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 13, 1985
Washington, D. C.



-23 -                                                  ANNEX I
TAILE X                                          Page  1  of 5
rlI                   - SOCIL  _SATh     MA   i
Flit                               RIMERSU  amOps (MUIGISI  Afhhfh) la
MT                 t(6 RUM  KSTIAU)ft/
use          MIDDL mUIII S          HE004
196A      197&             u l    ASTA U PACIC           LZA. SICA A CAR
TOTAL                                16.3       18.3        18.3
ACGRCULTURAL                          2.9        2.9         3.0
mw   a ci    (CW)                      390.e      o.o      1790.0             1OPI.2                  2100.6
(KILORAMS OP OIL  IAIVhIIT)         254.0      So.2        546.0            567.3                   995.5
POrMAnouzNID-TA (TOUSANS)           394.0      n2.0        656.0
URA  POMAN aZ OF TOTL)               29.7       34.8        41.4            34.7                     6h.S
POPULATION PRWJECTIOUS
POnAmfN  INT EAR 2000 CMILL)                               0.9
sTaxnolan ronxxo m (cmuA                                   1.5
rovozno   eam                                              L.a
POPUILATIOU DEC11
PERt SQ. M.                        21.6       23.5 3                     261.9                     35.7
ri SQ. M. Mal. LAW                135.4      179.3   2u 1.2             1733.1                     92.4
rPOPULATno AGE STAUCuR  CZ)
0-14 TSit                         44.0       63.5        35.6            39.0                     39.9
15-6  IRS                          49.5      34.0         60.9            57.6                     36.0
65 S  ABOm                          2.5        2.4         3.5             3.3                      4.1
POPULATIONi fRONT RATE CZ)
TOAL                                3.1        2.8         2.0             2.3                      2.4
URBA                                5.1        4.4         3.4             4.3                      3.6
-ucnalA "IC c         3 MM5)         42.L       23.5       :20.6            30.1                     31.3
CRUDE DEAIN RATE (PUS 23s)           10.0        4.7         6.7             9.5                      5.1
GaOSS IPXOOUCrEOU RATE                3.1        1.9         1.6             2.0                      2.0
FAM-LY PLANNNC
ACCErrORs. A_AL (MO0S)               ..         .9        40.1
uSms C or       e  M                 ..         ..        3e.0 IC         52.7                     40.3
ImnU OF FOOD MM00. "a CAPITA
(196( 71-100)                       103.0      ia&.o       lo0.0           123.0                    114.3
FM CAPIZA SCnPLY or
CALORI  cZ OF RuIsRDE)            101.0       91.0        Ul.0            114.4                   110.6
PROTNS se(GAS PU DAY)              57.0       50.0        43.0            57.0                     67.3
or ex QAM   ANDL    PULSE        21.0       20.0        23-0 Id         14.1                     34.1
CHILD (AES 1-4) DANTS RTE             6.7        3.9         2.2             7.2                      5.7
LIFE EIPECr. AT  IEM (ERS)           64.4       6.1         67.9            60.4                     64.1
IPANTr morT. RATE CPU 2K00)          60.0      50.0         34.4            66.3                     60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE -AE (VW0)
TOAL                                 ..       37.0        69.0 /I         37.0                     65.4
URBAN                                ..       78.0         3.0 7;         54.8                     76.1
RURAL                                ..       15.0        62.0 7;         26.4                    4U.2
ACCSS TO EErA DISPOSAL
(C Or POULATIN)
TOrAL                                ..       91.0        96.0 if         41.3                     52.9
ass                                  ..      i0          ioo.a 7r         47.4                     67.0
RURAL                                '-       c7.0        93.0 7          33.3                     24.5
POPUIATN PUR PISICrIA              2020.0    n21.0        2230.0          7749.6                   1917.7
OPr. PER NURSING FE5R5              860.0 /   570.0        460.0          Z460.4                    815.5
FOP. PUM NOSFiTA MM
TOTAL                             260.0      340.0       380.0 Id        10O4.2                   367.2
URUAN                             200.0e  240.0             ..           651.2                    411.S
RRAL                              7900 9; 30.0              ..          25946                    2636.3
AMSSNS PU  SorTL MM                    ..       2B.1          ..            27.0                     27.3
AVERAGE SIm  OF HfhSEOBI
TOrAL                               6.3        6.3 lb
Us                                   ..         ..          .                ..
AVERAGE N. oF PIRSO_S/ROd
TOL                                  ..         ..
UR                                   ..         ..
ACaESS To ELECT. CZ OF DWELLINGS)
TOrAL                                ..         ..
SOtAL                                .           ..                          _.
a. .                                 ..         .. .
mL                                   ..         ..          .                ..



- 24 -                                                    ANNEX I
TAIL! ZI                                             Page 2 of 5
- SOCIAL INICATMS DATAS
Ml X                                    uRUCE OUPE (WXZTO AV&RAGIE) Ja
mar                      cmos: stNOi  ESTDILU) b.1
IRUCU         MIDDL InCS              IDrD     T
t,saLk.    L9701k    EEnIAb   45144 PACIFIC              TLA. 83UC04 6 CAR
ADJUITED ENRO1LLMNT RATS0S
PnIzus   TOTAL                      81.0      101.0        Lot.0 L          102.0                     105.4
NILS                     31.0      102.0        109.0 fj         101.3                     105.3
FOL!                     78.0       33.0        108.0             9 58.2                   104.5
ICONDART  rOTAL                     13.0       35.0         62.0 A1          46.0                     43.2
PAUL                     20.0       33.0         60.0             48 .7                     42.3
10KAL*                    9.0       30.0         64.0             43.1                      46.5
VOCATIONAL (s or COO    Y)             9.9        5.6          5.2 IC          17.5                     33.6
PUPXL-TEAZNI  RATIO
PRaIlmY                             35.0       32.0         32.0 h           31.-                      30.1
*SOIODARY                           17.0       24.0         18.0 7           23.5                     16.3
AIULT LITRACY RAT  (X)                  ..       73.0         73.0 t           72.9                     79.5
aa
PASfUIR CAuS/THOUSDID POP              9.6       21.2         36.              1O.l                    4.0
RDIXO RECEIVIRSITUOUsAD POP           60.9       96.2        473.2            113.6                    225.6
TV UECEYVERS/TIOUSAND POP               ..         ..           ..             50.1                    107.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAT?Y GENERAL
INTZEST-) CIRCfTA1ON
PEII THOUSANID POQPULATION          12.7       30.8         87.0 gi          51.9                     63.5
CINI ANNUAL ATTEDAIIE/CAPITA           1.3                     0.5              3.4                       2.8
TOTAL LUAOR FORCE (1OUS)            108.0      151.0        20.O
1344L2 (PERCNT)                      6.0       11.0         13.2             33.5                     23.2
ASRICULTUIT. (PERCENT)              55.7       47.5         39.4             52.2                      31.5
INDSTY (PERCENT)                    15.0       18.6         22.4             17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.5       29.0         31.6             38.7                      32.2
VALE                                50.1       50.7         54.2             50.9                     49.3
FEMALE                              .3.4        6.5          8.4             25.6                     15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENRECY RATIn               1.8        1.6          1.2              1.1                      1.4
PERCNT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BT
NIGNEST 5 OF OUSEOLDS                 ..       19.0 /         ..             22.2
HIGHEST 20! 0F NOUSEHOLDS             ..       47.7 7         ..             48.0
LOWEST 20! OF EOIISEHOLDS             ..        5.1 7j        ..              6.4
LOWEST 4O0 OF 8O0ENLDS                ..       14.8           ..             15.5
ESTMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (CSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..         ..           ..         1U.6                        286.2
RURAL                                 ..         ..        250.0 /f         152.0                    184.0
ESTIAED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PEL CAPTA)
MURBA                                 ..         ..           ..            177.9                    522.8
RURAL                                 ..         ..        445.0 /e         164.6                    372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (C)
URBAN                                 ..         ..           ..             23.4
RURAL                                 ..         ..         30.0 /f          37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICBLE
NOT E S
/a  The group averaes for san Indicator are population-se4bted aritbetic emes. Coager of cowntrie  _mog the
jiucatore depends on avalability of dare  mud L. not unifox.
Ib  Unless otherwise noted, -ata for 1960' refer to any yer  betwee  1959 and 1961; Data for 1970' betwee  1969 and
1971; end daca for -Mat RecAnt Est1ioct  between 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1978; /d 1977; /c 1976; /f 1975; /g 1962; tb 1966; 1i 1979; LI 1972. urban households.
UNlE, 1984



-25 -                                                                                   AflE  I
-                                                             ~~~~~~~~~Page 3 of5
Va..,  AIth%.   thu at      4 t   t.eru    -al  j.fld-I   Igp  th    .aatat   5 usltiP. It uaIkd ule. h. sutd  Shut tS.l Mp a  St tt2*ri%tau
-tju   ..u A-."r  me) f.S - tu- VS 5.atts  Its  -.  a,  -.1155           73. ts - a th aUras. uudMIl testY *.M ...M..  . .5 census. -uss-uss.us.t
et5  a  at S.r thus ttdssst  '-   mlI 2.s.sta  at csult.   -   t.  EaIEuelu  dul-b -4 thu    .-t.ilt .5 ..  ad_ Pa-     at...  u-thuM-
df...uo.sd  . rutsi  WM-tw   M.t   - tnRh.u  tom ...tu . IPau , u ISnu       - uulp.pel   I. u.w.t  thu ttu.  -W  b tduSa AM ~a g6ap a  Mt    tWkA   a
.4th.- Lvi atuela    s.s.  ue.'an.    frf                                               =  MLifSJ     ft.Ll.s. 4254  Pa ..h-  .5- grsht
5.-   d5..G               'M     .           It                   I    fi nLe~tf Pt2.,  ftt.M   - tIlkatea 4. t45  hi shsu aM              sTttMl
Srtsuitsni - PaLl.... .5 susl.L~els4 .r.u  eee.ursr..p                                       autu -11a   ,.. Mttta  nsa uu
ElM..' jul                                                tuua~~~~~~~~~                      uthu.- ad t.t.t -~~~ES;-    ta-ut..  t4
I L         SMI-  M!               - L  -ta...esita.atiboI   slte uut  utt set usue.ta .-Uuut  ad_
=. '__1 '___  --     .---  - W   t.1 t...S.Iu.                       t1llhtdt.   tn...Paet-
li  iie. - s tnt1 455..                                                               hi-tas   reutt                           utsd
G!LBM %f=     - Qal~~~~~~~~~  ~~hbsm,        fterts.   Pant-  h.upta. flu,.Ink.stu  a
S.rnhutj.iSW45.li4hy th  =flr .b fl
a~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~LP sIftS.                           -     l.-a1*ilsnm                                                     pt ~ caa y    ~_
us... 55Ct    i~eMl~      -m- as -ut  54tE. Sdbd- . -                           -ImMa. ted   flhud  Iruui a-IN h.9u..-P.d  snt   t..S   tt
un-u S.ustt- Suu..ut .1 t -tt     PaE  "L u..to tn,t p.re-s..uut                    . h  lw  .tets S    Wg  O  fItt            -flutului-t
dllfist -a      s r uls.45taet  S   5uluuthLlsMAEus                                         d  hI -hu  utiu   & kuudu  -bt45  p. d-k ava  Pia l-su    s-
It s uu                                                                             et 5 S Cu --us..teti.sok aMutuIJsue   au
at..    -art- puu.ttaM pt.Jtt--tuu   5stu                                         M...  p.ue  suLeu   s uu  tuslse.t
t ~ ~    t    t   ad .us adat  lair 1 .. -ttltti ad itlttt                          af1t,. r..ust-  .   hattt-  sate11. suu-        Mek utuutuu  ad
.e.es   srunxtnnr~a. Es .ut-lu   .t.  g-aS  ie                                 el-.tt
-ea.- .    ps.uou P Sr   C.tlt _ Srutss  Pa-  lieu  tat.                            .   uu.uts   drtt utui   uutt
plat.e M puuaaau.Phu- aI 2. tI-%    ututAd  rt.S uPs. P..                                                             laTI
su-aIsua    ttat.  us lurtIftup tl .e u peu- att. pug--L. ISnj                                . ru--Ltt_tILIla4.Pa.l
94-Lf PWM ~ 15.t a  to       9 tt*   -.W -ad    u.pott  1-untI Wrm.- 6tt    uua   ulu    a-es,aea   .i
usu  uu    L ttLy naid   us L1.usea.  b    tu.                                tl-.M-  ustatuu  pUulsl   .utt0aaStdu                        5I
=lut  .t  te  e-  a.uttlug  pw.gutat tl-             .sstu-sd - .                      l- m   a-  pnltu ur hula-   ehuat Wk Oft11.2. .li At..
t-e.hu el th  yn)etu  rMa .ttsltt  uf  l.-   uteuaL thu a -~                        hua ret-            es.  L  us tat. -   P.ud  a M-1ufr
ZOOD. s ad tht   uS datL.. 4 f-leittIlI  rul tu lu.ean   te.i                         Maeu   rsl-          !-L? Sn. uuu at   u.u  peau-         alot
ftu.L.ttr   Pat     . thu tad-e, 5t- "-I1_:h saab te  --L.e                            -tst4. patul. nettss. Me teuthu  Sat                  at.t
tsb-"    iettua   ushei   fees ha,_u.              -.d -ktt W. t.                      "tu.eet  al.;          7-
a C.pwuelt- 1. thu  us "-. to n..9        shs  thuF.                       tae-te.u  ant.5  lunu   5usdtl     ae                      att
.tL.e.tnlu Ft  mjusta t. tupsn ..            'a  aa 3 etsi                      IsoL.d  tut--Lu.iutte.- atp is.thelrt
th   etlu-    hslatlt  uta-tputuu   et   r  t                                     tSSpua.al  Mradug-tu              usl .ttI-
-d. LIES ddt.                                                  -ltlt.h.gas-ulu.aduas     4s  sdt                                              ttt
aun  List I*atiCaMlist d
fts.tLn 55  *r.ua 4....tl - ftid M V)h     W ,uu0 -uhu.es. fit[Et
am,t%fS. turnu  PaeSuru)- u -3           ..t U ent  tel-us  au  utd                  u       E.ul s.tIet. -f-W
r.tppua   1                2 55.u  tts.5  ad L1.55                                    st      .as. j-..d  .eseut.t   Mttggu t  k.nsut  t. rt
lt..isun tfl he. (ans.t                                                                    _ ..     us   r.4tIs. s1  untaut  rrLpiltp   h,e   Ippetu 
p-Luts-  .. 545-n  La-I's, a        t.  .          I -ee-R. atauuu  ru.tnu  to_ tuttu  ad Mu T.  .sl.tts Mr    iL
0.. tahPa.i..tl..t   au-ut LIrn htrt.8 p. 4. tua m7c. 44                                -uat           "I,;te  s.au  unS  adeu-esthu tt -  t
suut Lsttut lt5t~torI ac  IE?dues                          .aata sl~.t4 ttutu.1        -. =               1
M                                         ---L ur. -a   t  uste  3t  ue  .I snarl., -1                    jer . ad  t.ttusteu .W as   a  i tolust
ueLegsutap15u  huutteu   rut.teut t                                                          Itttu   .ttu.ed.Llu)-S                     kst
IuLLs   n4  ustyfa-.ruur-.5qt.'t.  i,adnase..5di pn  usa. u.u.r  dtit  t   el-a
lit..                                                                           .ahltsaesu .0-    f--  t--' _m     duutdluatt -  .et5s st atu-a. tI Paf.uuduu
.5  hs d-uu5IEsruu.  tss..rttes-  '.n hut's6  -s-im                               -   ~1    ~1                _~-           1    _F
-L.eueutrt ,ts  .u4.- ..rj  .  tu   u                                                                 .-I ce iuSst   t-,s-Ls-. utwoas -lt.  t.stl
_d M  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~suusts  .  it t  PfutL   tq.tn 6                                           u    ust..a-rf
-Cf-                  IWIWrri4W..-.t.has.MtiukL Ot - -t LIE! at..ll. op
-.a. .   -ad erhtl  uue_ CeLu  (it-L55     td   tutosttf'Jjlftueau                                                   r a Pu           5 tI 'l th= tto
-u.5  ta.tSe  i t  u-d                                                            P- tutOraiL..t.duu    a.L.-ar Itr  utM lasg    M!uty    oi 
-lu  a   e ct. sUsted. ertt  prud4 ett -     el aSj E-.uetjs                      tortt.-u  -                 pusut..ts  ue  eu lt.  l              i
Iud      .uA.ue    .  nuegl   set;tt.    t"t, atdb tIEsadsIESa)s
-u.auL,st uqotI   t-ttu    -tt              Mr.-4a    t -rstutt  is  ad-lst ae.   p-aa  urn.h-uuda                                    P-S pitte e P-ua
M, flhud  t-selt" 1145.41.LI  a   Eat. 4.14                                       in-." ESINtEI-I
a  ultsO 5  or  ..          .  plr.Sfedtuatn      ea   P.-surtt rIIsO5 pas. urut t  .r...55g-.u 0=utsna
s.nes.Sa  i uuIl.aet.edhtiapred   a    daM=uaa
utA        slda trotp1s.p   u   d2 ge   1sa   u
-sa  .ttu  at.lhL-        ga.st hu aita          =os.   tlka    "uP5 -- tt car
IMtto   at 155  cW1y   611.1  Lita        aa s.ttetdtt.utastt-ta    S    .tttl-ttsa   tu
aradtunadLua  pus  lte   P   a.,&IStM-                  Sa.tr                      .utrlLredqut  lt 24usuttlnta    .stam    t.'_
tate.                                                                       aliur-dLhts.b.   .  - tf
-                 Cte  eue t4llueh PSul.u  tuuadP-   ut dstu  .  ttue   4                                .tus   aulufrnt   uu ,                a   a  utt)-thta    s. 
atta  l   sn  teette  2  isa           eru.r:S t s-   ttnutsPrtWtsalrtrLnl-                                          * .         urttrttu
uLS-tI.  t   la    a   tsthal16.tltn    e   ue                                        ura    u-.1    ur.st   ut  uPia   a   h  .e



-26-                                          ANNMX I
Page 4 of 5 pagsa
COURTRY DATA - FMJI 
ARC                                        POPULATrOW                                                        DmESITY
1-.333 aq a                                i6?72,000( dd-1983)                                               36.7 per aq km
Rate of growthb 2.0% (mid-1983)
Population Characteristics (1981-83 *-ti mtes)                   Hbelth (1979-81)
Crude birth rate (per 1,000)                30.6                Population per physician                            2,230
Crude death rate (per 1,000)                 6.7                Population per hospital bed                           460
Infant mortality rate (per 1.000)   -       35.5
Incone Diltribution                                             nistribution of Land Ownerabip
Z of national lncome, highest 20S           n.A.                 Z owned by top 10Z                                  n.-.
lovmet 20%           n.a.                 Z owned by muallest 10S of owners                   n.e.
Access to PIled Water (1976)                                    AMce.s to Tlectricitv (1978)
S of popultion - urban                      83.0                Z of population - urban                              47.0
- rural                     62.0                                - rural                             16.0
Nutritlon (1979-81)                                              Education
Calorie Intake as Z of requlrements        131.0                 Adult literacy rate (Z) (1981)                      79.0
Per capica protein intake (grams/day)       63.9                Adjusted primary school enrollment CZ) (1981)       110.0
GUP PER CAPITA IN 1983: USS1,790
Croms National Product in 1983                                                                        Annual Rate of Growth
USS million                     S                            1979-83 /a
CUP at market prices                            1,211.5                      100.0                             8.2
Crowa doeestic Investment                         286.1                       23.6                             0.2
Cross national saving.                            122.8                       15.9                            -1.3
Exports of goods., NFS                            524.0                       43.2                             5.7
Imports of goods, NPS                             587.9                       48.5                             6.1
Dutput. Labor Force and Productivity in 1983 Current Prices
Value added lb                  Labor force /c                Value added per worker
US$ milllon           Z            ('W00s)           Z             USS            Z of average
Agriculture                      221.3            19.9           109.0           50.1         2,030.2              39.6
Industry                         144.0            12.9           21.7            10.0         6,635.9             129.5
Service.                         749.0            67.2            86.8           39.9         8,629.0             168.4
Total/Average            1,114.3            100.0          217.5           100.0         5,123.2             100.0
Government Finance
Central Covernment
1984 /d                   1983                     1983                  1982
(Fs mllion)                            -         (Z of CDP)
Current receipts                              328.4                    233.0                    24.7                   23.0
current expenditures /1                       329.0                    280.1/c                  23.6                   20.9
Current surplus                                -0.6                     12.9                     1.1                    2.1
Capital expenditures If                        67.0                     57.0/d                   4.8                    8.4
Ia Based on nominal CDP values by expenditures.
T7 1983 CDP at fActor cost at current prices converted to US dollars.
Te incldes unemployed.
7T Prellminary estimate.
7re  Including intertet on public debt; domestic and external.
Tf Including net lending.



ANNEK I
-27 -                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
Honey. Credit *nd Price.
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    19q3
=          PS million
oney and qual-noney                                                           255.4   305.9   342.8   364.3   395.3   443.7
Bank credit to private  wn  public sectors                                     182.0   224.1   231.5   279.4   333.7   381.5
Percentage and Index Numbers
mone" ard qua-l-mo nm  as S of CDP                                              34.9    36.0    35.0    34.0    34.0    37.0
Ceneral price index (1979 - 100)                                                n.-.   100.0   114.5   127.3   136.2   245.3
Annual percentsge cbanges int
Ceneral price index                                                          n.a.      7.5    14.5    11.2      7.0     6.8
Bank  re it to private and public                                              -      18.7     3.3      2.1    19.4    14.3
Sector.
Balance of Payments                                                           Werchandise Exports (Average 1981-19N3)
1978   1979    1980    1981   1982   1983                                           ISS min    1
Tus-s mlnlion) -   -
Sugar                                135.2   47.3
Exports of goods. nfa        379.1  470.4   578.8   543.4  530.3  531.7    Cold                                     16.3    5.7
Imports of goods, nfs        415.9  556.7  -615.5  -710.8  595.8  587.9    Holamaes                                  6..4    2.2
Rearouee Sap (deficit - -)  -36.8  -86.3   -36.7  -167.4  -65.5  -56.2    Coconut oil                                8.5    9.9
Tlmber and products                    4.4    1.7
Inveatment Income (net)       -4.2  -16.6   -21.1   -18.7  -43.1  -37.3    Others (including                       115.6   43.1
Net tranafers                 -2.1    8.7    23.2    17.0   17.5   26.5         re-exports and
fish on n.e.s.)
Balance on current account -43.1  -94.2   -36.6  -169.1  -91.1  -67.0
Total                           285.9    100
Nonmonetary capital           15.2   46.2    87.3   136.9   81.7   78.4
Official                     3.0   22.5    69.7    74.0       -       -    External Debt. December'31  1983 3              man
Private                     12.2   23.7    17.6    62.9       -       -      Publlc debt                                316.0/c
Errors  nd ouia-£ons       -19.6    4.7    14.9    11.5    5.3   -9.2        Private debt                                98.0
overall balance             -8.3    1.0    67.6   -20.7    9.4   11.4
Total outstanding                      614.0
Net reserves end of year    134.7  136.7   168.6   138.9  124.1  126.3
In months of imporcs           5.2    3.4      3.7     2.7    2.5    2.6    Debt Service Ratio necember 31. 1983            Z
Debt service (public
and public guaranteed) 1%                11.3
Private creditors 1a                         2.0
Total debt service ratio lb             13.3
(including non-guaranteed
private debt servicing)
Rate of Fxchange                                                             IsRD Lending. Murcb 31. 1985 (USS min.)
Annual averages
1980    1981    1982    1983                                               tURD
UsSI.00 - FS                         0.8174  0.8532  0.9320  0.9558             Outstanding and disbursed         67.4
F71.00 - US$                         1.2234  1.1721  1.0730  1.0471            Undisbur.ed                         -
Outstanding, Including            67.4
undisbursed
|a As a percentage of exports of goods and non-factor services.
/b Including private nonguaranteed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN FIJI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1985) 1/
Amount in US$ million
Loan                                                      (less cancellations)
number      Year      Borrower           Purpose            Bank       Undisbursed
Eight Loans fully disbursed.                                83.4
Total                                 83.4
of which has been repaid              15.9
Total now outstanding                 67.4
Amount sold                0.15
of which has been repaid  0.15          0
Total effective loans now
held by Bank                          73.2
Total undisbursed
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ million
year         Company              Type of Business        Loan    Equity   Total
1984          The Fiji Sugar       Sugar Mill               6.0       -    6.0
Corporation
Total gross commitments                      6.0        -    6.0
Less: Repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs             -               -
Total commitments now held by IFC            6.0        -    6.0
Total undisbursed                                  -          -
a/   The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearLy and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
FIJI
FIJI DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN AND PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project prepared by:                       FDB and ADB
(b)  Time required to prepare project:          6 months
(c)  Appraisal by ADB:                          January/February L985
(d)  First presented to the Bank:               November 1984
(e)  Completion of Bank Negotiations:           April 26, 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:             September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of loan effectiveness: (i) effectiveness of the ADB loan
(para 57); (ii) signing of subsidiary loan agreement between
Government and FDB, and the subscription agreement for FDB equity
(para. 58).
(b)  Others:
(i) FDB will inform the Bank of any proposed ne,# appointment to
the position of Managing Director (para. 42);
(ii) FDB will hire a qualified engineer by year-end 1985
(para. 43);
(iii)  FDB will consult with the Bank before changing its Operating
Strategy and General Business Policy Statement (para. 45);
(iv) FDB will maintain a long-term debt to equity ratio ceiling of
3:1 (para. 50);
(v) FDB will consult with the Bank prior to making any changes in
its interest rate structure (para. 60); and
(vi) FDB subloans to public enterprises would be approved on a
case-by-case basis (para. 62).



w  h  |   . _   s   _                     .    .                      .         ,F,       IIIRD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 124J31
S * ~ *.,,s,'; "t,,' /;#., ~ X i; N-0  R .T HE R N :.        ....................... s/*'1   -O -'N                         '- '
A     0C I    F            c:.                                                                       '-
'P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~'~
.    _-'    *    J    4*   Q   .tn   .  -,  .  t-4 $--7 >--} _-'/ ;>8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,A.                                   I
....Vi : :   - .: -     -                                                    - --- -    .   .-  - 11111 -UOA-V
t                            S~~~~~~ E 
^   ;      ; -    - - J              1                ges                                            - c   1  5~~~~~~~~~~~~'  ~2     --
.  .   , jb.-@  eJ,  , .     /         JZAIMQ~/ 
|:                        . S            :.8oV,yIz  I  0 N      v                                        '        --'|
---:                            .1 *a'IU             t                       away AM"
Tti-, ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 1 13Ws



