Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5915-UNI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
September 26, 1986
Western Africa Projects Department
Agri-culture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its oontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =    Naira (N)
Calendar
Year 1984    June 1985   SAR Estimates
US$            =    Naira 0.77       NO.89        N1.00
N              =        US$1.30    US$1.12      US$1.00
WEIGPTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures used in this report are
metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)      =    2,205 pounds
1 hectare (ha)            =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)          =    0.62 miles
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet
I millimeter (=mm         =    0.04 inches
1 cubic meter (m )        =    35.30 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -          African Development Bank
ADP       -          Agricultural Development Project
AP        -          Afforestation Program
APCU      -          Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit
FARA      -          Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency
FDF       -          Federal Department of Forestry
FMAWRRD   -          Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources
and Rural Development
FMG       -          Federal Military Goverpment
FMP       -          Forest Management Program
FORMECU   -          Forestry Management, Evaluation and
Coordinating Unit
FRIN      -          Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria
MAI       -          Mean Annual Increment
SFD       -          State Forestry Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE         ..............   (i)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY              .      .       ............ (ii)
I.        INTRODUCTION ....... . ....... ........... L
II.       THE FORESTRY SECTOR          ..1............... 
A.  Background and Role in the Economy .1
B. Sector Organization ....,                              3
C. The Issues ....,                                       3
D. Sector Strategy ....,                                  6
E. Bank Involvement .....                                 6
III.      THE PROJECT .. ..............                              7
A.  Origin and Bank Rationale . . ............,           7
B.  Objectives and Description         . . .              8
C. Organization, Implementation and Present
Status of Project              ...   15
D.  ?roject Cost and Financing Plan         ...    16
E.  Procurement ... ................ .                   18
F. Disbursement                   ...   19
G.  Auditing and Reporting .      . .....................   21
H.  Production and Markets .        . .....................   21
I.  Financial Impact and Cost Recovery        . .    22
J.  Benefits and Risks .      . .....................,,. 23
IV.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs. Sullivan, Hvidberg-Hansen, Anderson, Krishnan and Woods
(Bank) and Nagle and Speechly (Consultants) who visited Nigeria in June
1985.  Ms. Baxevanis and Ms. Bagai provided the secretarial support and
figures were checked by Ms. DuCran.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of thir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1    Key Features of the Agricultural Sector
2-1 Supply and Demand Characteristics of the Forestry Sector
2-2   Institution- in the Forestry Sector
3-1   Afforestation Program (AP)
3-2 Forest Management Program (FMP)
3-3   Technical Assistance Program
3-4   Research Program
3-5   Terms of Reference for the Preparation of a National
Afforestation Plan & a Household Energy Supply and
Demand Study
3-6   Organization and Management
3-7   Implementation Schedule
3-8   Summary Costs
3-9   Financing Plan
3-10  Local Competitive Procurement Procedures
3-11 Disbursement Schedule
3-12 Special Account Operations
3-13 Production Figures
3-14  FMP Cash Flow
3-15 AP Economic Analysis: Cost Benefit Calculation
3-16 Industrial Plantation Program: Cost and Benefit
Maps
IBRD No. 19354: Nigeria - Vegetation Zones
IBRD No. 19355: Nigeria - Second Forestry Project



(i)
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Document No.
A.  Background
1.  Nigeria - Agricultural Sector Memorandum,             4723-UNI
February 1985
2.  Nigeria - Agricultural Pricing Policy,
June 15, 1985                                        4945-UNI
3.  Nigeria - Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector, August 1983                                  4440-UNI
B.   Project Identification and Preparation
1.  Nigeria - Forestry II Project                         129126
Preparation Report, Volumes I and II,                (Al and 2)
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
(Report No. 30/83 CP NIR 20),
March 24, 1983
2.  Forestry II Project Preparation Report                225995
(Pulpwood Component), FORMEU (June 1984)
C.  Working Papers
1   Forestry Sector
2   Afforestation Program
3    Forest Management Program
4    Cost Tables
5    Economic Analysis



(ii)
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiaries:         Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development and nine State Goverments
(Bauci'i, Benue, Borno, Kaduna, Kano, Ogun, Ondo,
Plateau and Sokoto).
Loan Amount:          US$71 million equivalent.
Terms:                Payable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at standard variable interest rates.
Relending Terms:      The Federal Government (FMG) would on-lend US$5.4
million (mn) to Benue State, US$9.8 mn to Kaduna
State, US$4.9 mn to Ogun State and US$4.5 mn to
Ondo State, on the same terms as the Bank loan, for
plantation management and development; these states
would carry the foreign exchange risk. The remaining
loan funds (US$46.4 rn) would either be passed as
grants to the states participating in the afforesta-
tion program (US$35.5mn) or used by FMG for program
management, studies and training (US$10.9 mn).
Project Description:  The project would support the efforts of the Federal
and State Governments to: (1) strengthen the
structural base of the sector through improved
policies, revenue collection systems, training and
research; (2) stabilize soil conditions in threatened
areas and improve the supply of fuelwood, poles and
fodder by supporting farm forestry and shelterbelt
activities; and (3) increase the supply of
industrial wood by improving the management of
existing, high-priority plantations and by
establishing new plantations. Project activities
would include: (a) an afforestation program which
would include the supply of 41 million seedlings
through farm forestry activities, covering an
estimated 750,000 ha, and the establishment
of 1,700 km of shelterbeltE protecting an estimated
34,000 ha; (b) a forest management program which
would include improved management of about 37,600 ha
of existing plantations, and establishment of
3,150 ha of new plantations; and (c) assistance for
management, training, policy analysis, research, and
studies.



(iii)
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign        Total
US$ million
A.   Afforestation Program:
1.  Farm Forestry                   13.4          9.2         22.6
2.  Shelterbelts                     8.6          4.0         12.6
Sub-total: a/                   22.0         13.2         35.2
B.   Forest Management Program:
1.  Existing Plantations             8.0          4.6         12.6
2.  New Plantations                  5.5          6.9         12.4
Sub-total:                      13.5         11.5         25.0
C.   Program Management, Training,        5.1          6.5          11.6
Policy Analysis, Research
and Studies
Total Base Costs:                   40.6         31.2         71.8
Physical Contingencies:               2.3          2.6          4.9
Price Contingencies:                26.4          7.6         34.0
Total Project Costs: b/             69.3         41.4        110.7
a/ Farmers would contribute an additional US$6.1 million in
man-days of labor and materials to the farm forestry component.
b/ Of which US$2.6 mn in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan
IBRD                                 29.6          41.4         71.0
Federal Government                   27.7           -           27.7
State Governments                    12.0                       12.0
Total                                69.3          41.4        110.7
Estimated Disbursements: FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95
-                US$ million- -             -
Annual                 4.0  5.8   6.4  8.9 13.7 14.7 10.7  5.8  1.0
Cumulative             4.0  9.8  16.2 25.1 38.8 53.5 64.2 70.0 71.0



(iv)
Benefits and Risks: The project's afforestation component, comprising investments
in shelterbelts and farm forestry, would stabilize soil conditions and enhance soil
moisture and nutrient content, benefitting agricultural productivity; it also would
increase the supply of fuelvood. poles, fruit and fodder. The forest management
component would improve the management of existing plantations and help establish
new plantations, increasing the availability of industrial timber. The support for
management, training, policy initiatives, research and studies would greatly
strengthen the structural base of the sector. The principal risks include
smallholder acceptance of the farm forestry program, and the ability of the Federal
and State Governments to provide their share of funding. The extension, monitoring
and research programs have been carefully designed to limit the risk of failure of
the farm forestry program. The project has been designed to minimize the annual
funding requirement of the Federal and State Governments.
Economic Rate of Return:      Afforestation Program           15%
Forest Management Program      17Z
Staff Appraisal Report:       No. 5915-UNI
WAPAB
September 1986



NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Federal Military Government (FMG) of Nigeria has requested
IBRD to continue its assistance to the forestry sector by funding a Second
Forestry Project. Originally the emphasis of the proposed project was on
further development of the pulpwood and industrial plantations in Nigeria's
southern and middle belts with a small input for afforestation in the
north. With the rapidly worsening problems of soil degradation in the
middle and northern belts, however, FMG requested that the project
establish a broad-based afforestation program. The proposed project
reflects FMG's concern and substantial emphasis is given to developing an
afforestation program for the deforested areas of northern Nigeria and the
severely eroded Jos Plateau in the middle of the country. The proposed
afforestation activities would complement Bank assistance to agricultural
activities in these areas currently being carried out by ongoing
Agricultural Development and Livestock projects. FMG also has sought
assistance in improving the sector's policy base, in improving the
management of existing industrial plantations, and in establishing new
plantations. These activities would be undertaken as part of the project.
U. THE FORESTRY SECTOR 1I
A.   Background and Role in the Economy
2.01      Nigeria is divided into three main ecological zones (Map 19354):
a humid forest zone about 50-250 km wide along the coast with over 1,600 mm
of rainfall annually; a sub-humid forest zone with 1,150-1,500 mm annual
rainfall and a three-month dry season; and savannah zones in the remainder
of the country - Guinea (1,000-1,500 mm rainfall, 4-5 month dry season),
Sudan (500-1,000 mm, 5-7 months dry season), and the Sahel along the
northeastern border with Niger (250-500 mm, 7-8 month dry season).
Nigeria's forests cater to a growing demand for the following wood and wood
products: pulpwood for newsprint, industrial paper and packaging
materials; poles and sawn timber for building materials, chipboard and
plywood; and firewood for domestic fuel.
2.02      The forest sector has accounted for about 1-2% of GDP and 6-8% of
agricultural GDP over the last decade. Along with the rest of the economy,
forest activities grew significantly in the early and mid-1970's as the oil
boom fueled a rapid expansion in domestic construction. This along with
the steady loss of the high forest to agricultural land and the poor record
1/  Key statistics of the agricultural sector are in Annex 1.



- 2 -
of plantation development led to the declining availability of industrial
wood. In 1976, the Federal Military Government (FMG) banned the export of
logs and most wood products. The value of forest products imports has
steadily increased from US$34 million in 1971 to US$230 million in 1981,
but as a percent of total merchandise imports has declined from 2% to 1Z.
In recent years, forest imports have declined along with the rest of
merchandise imports and now consist mostly of pulpwood and quality paper
products which are not produced locally. At present the forest sector
provides employment opportunities for some 1.5 to 2.0 million people, of
which the vast majority are working part time to supply firewood and poles.
The production and processing of logs in the forest zones involves only
about 50,000 to 75,000 people.
2.03      As a result of population pressures, economic growth and poor
management over the past two decades, Nigeria's forests and woodlands have
been both rapidly degraded and reduced in area. This is particularly true
in the north which has a sizeable population (30 million), but because of
its semi-arid character, has a smaller forest endownment than the south and
a slower regeneration rate. In order to prevent the total depletion of
Nigeriats forest resources, FMG has set aside 9.6 million ha of forests,
roughly 10 of Nigeria's total land area, as forest reserves. About 7.2
million ha (75%) of the reserves are situated in the northern part of the
country with the remaining 2.4 million ha (25%) in the wetter middle and
southern regions. The forest reserve areas also include some 150,000 ha of
plantations established by FNG over the last quarter century
in the middle and southern regions.
2.04      It is difficult to determine accurately the supply and demand for
wood and wood products, but the general picture is one of current
consumption exceeding the level of sustained forest output, with the
greatest deficit occurring in the northern half of the country. Estimates
put total annual national consumption in 1985 at about 50 to 55 million m ,
of which 90% is firewood. Total sustainable production is difficult to
determine since most wood comes from areas outside the forest reserves.
Estimates indicate that there is an anual deficit of fuelwood and poles in
the north amounting to 5 to 8 million m (the south has adequate supplies)
and an industrial wood deficit in she south, where the sawmill industry is
located, of about 2 to 3 million m . The implications of this deficit are
severe, particularly as the greatest part of it occurs in the north where,
if unchecked, it could result in total soil degradation as the tree cover
becomes completely removed and massive erosion sets in. It is important
that Nigeria act now to support afforestation programs and to study
alternative fuels and the introduction of fuel-efficient stoves so the
problem can be contained and ultimately reversed. Similarly, Nigeria needs
to lay the groundwork for sustained production of sawnwood to supply local
requirements. While a sustained production program must ultimately rely on
substantial replanting, the necess.ry policy base, fee structure and
management systems must be established before such investments take place.
A discussion of supply and demand characteristics of the forestry sector is
provided in Annex 2-1.



-3-
B.   Sector Organization
2.05      The sector involves institutions at federal, state and local
levels. The main federal institution is the Federal Department of Forestry
(FDF), an arm of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development. The Forestry Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, a
subdivision of FDF, has coordinated activities under the First Forestry
Project (Ln. 1679-UNI, March 1979), a role that would be continued in the
proposed project. However, to reflect expanded responsibilities under the
proposed project, its name would be changed to the Forestry Management,
Evaluation and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU), and it would be officially
established (para. 3.20). Research is a federal responsibility and is
currently being carried out by the Forest Research Institute of Nigeria
(FRIN). FRIN operates several research sub-stations, including a
Shelterbelt Research Station at Kano. The proposed project would include
funds for studies in arid zone activities which would be closely
coordinated with FRIN. At the State level, forestry affairs are the
responsibility of the Chief Conservator of Forests, whose office - the
State Forestry Department (SFD) - is directly responsible for the actual
management of the forest reserves in each state and for implementing state
investment projects funded locally or by FMG. At the local level, the
Local Government Authorities have roles which vary among states. In some
states they have received authority from the states to issue licenses and
collect revenues. More information on the institutions involved in the
forestry sector at the federal, state and local levels is provided in Annex
2-2.  A general discussion of the Forestry Sector is p'ovided in Working
Paper 1.
C.   The Issues
2.06      The following factors have contributed to the poor performance of
the sector: (i) lack of a national policy; (ii) an outdated forest revenue
system; (iii) inadequate funding; and (iv) inadequate management of forest
resources. These are discussed below:
(i)   National Forest Policy
2.07      FMG's effectiveness in managing the development and use of the
country's forest resources has been constrained by the lack of a national
policy. Individual states have generally adopted policies regarding forest
use which fit their own specific needs. While this approach may have
worked when forest resources were plentiful, it is no longer adequate. FDF
has recently prepared a draft National Forest Policy to provide the
framework and guidelines for the most efficient long-term development and
utilization of the country's forest resources. Additional work on the
draft is needed to address institutional relationships in the sector,
conservation issues, revenue requirements and priorities for new
investment.
2.08      Under the proposed project, FORMECU, with consultant assistance,
would review: (i) the institutional relationships in the sector between



- 4 -
federal, state and local authorities; (ii) the state forest management
systems, including the need to protect the forests from illegal felling and
encrochment; (iii) the state forest revenue systems (para 2.09); and (iv)
the long-term supply and demand characteristics of the sector and the role
of the pricing mechanism and alternative fuels in managing wood resources
(para 3.19(ii)). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that FORMECU
would complete the above reviews by December 31, 1987 and incorporate the
findings in a revised draft National Forest Policy which would be ready by
June 30, 1988. After considering the Bank's and the states' comments on
the draft, FMG would promulgate the National Forestry Policy by December
31, 1988 (para 4.01 (a) (i) and (ii). Assurances were also obtained that
FMG would review the National Forest Policy annually until project
completion, with the first review due June 30, 1990, and that these reviews
would take into account the Bank's comments on the Policy and the
recommendations of the proposed National Afforestation Plan described in
para 3.19 (para 4.01 (a) (iii)).
(ii) State Forest Revenue Systems
2.09      Forest revenues in Nigeria are below the desirable level mainly
because the natural forest has historically been treated as a free
resource. Trees from Nigeria's earlier plantation programs, including
those supported through the First Forestry Project (para 2.14), have yet to
mature and appropriate forest charges introduced to recover their
replacement costs. Determining the level of charges in each state is a
complicated process depending on the type of species which either exists in
the forest reserves or is being grown on plantations, the proximity of
local markets and the purpose of the charge, i.e., whether it is to
discourage utilization, promote selective utilization or result in
clearfelling. FMG provided assurances at negotiations that FORMECU would
employ consultants by December 31, 1986, to undertake a review of the
forest revenue systems in the project states to determine the type of
charges employed, their current level, and whether the system and the
current rates are effective in meeting conservation, utilization, revenue
and cost recovery objectives. Each state would participate fully in its
study. These reviews would bear in mind FMG's objectives as set out in its
proposed National Forest Policy and would be completed by June 30, 1987 and
forwarded to FHG, the states and the Bank for review and comment. Bearing
in mind the coments received, each project state would introduce a revised
forest revenue system, including levels of forest charges and a mechanism
for adjusting these levels regularly to reflect price movements, by June
30, 1988. The power to establish and collect forest revenues is vested
with the states, however FMG shall, within the limits of its constitutional
powers, take all necessary action to ensure that the proposed system is
adopted by each project state by the above date (para 4.01 (b)).



-5-
(iii) Funding
2.10      Actual funding for forestry has amounted to 2.42 of FMG's
agricultural budget during 1981-84, compared to 3% when the Fourth Plan
(1981-85) was prepared. Although resources available during the Fourth
Plan have been substantially lower than expected, forcing FDF to reduce its
investment levels, forestry has been no harder hit than the rest of
agriculture. The main difficulty has been that the reductions were often
haphazard, reflecting weak sector management.  State governments have faced
greater constraints and in many cases have stopped new investments and
reduced staff. The reduction in resources spent on forestry was inevitable
given that oil revenues failed to materialize as expected.
2.11      FMG has advised the Bank that it intends to retain the same
relative level of funding for forestry within the Fifth Plan as in the
Fourth Plan, i.e. 2.5 to 3% of its agricultural investment program. On
this basis, the proposed project would account for about 40% of the
resources likely to be available to the forestry sector during the
upcoming plan period.
(iv)   Forest Reserve Management
2.12      SYDs have not managed the forest reserves within their
jurisdiction on a systematic basis, including the plantations established
by FMG in the 1960s and 1970s. The cost of effectively protecting the
reserves from illegal felling is high and would require a large number of
armed patrols. The states would need to involve other branches of
government in the task and this issue would be examined in connection with
the preparation of the proposed National Forest Policy (para 2.08). Since
1960, FMG and the states have established 150,000 ha of industrial
plantations, but most have not been thinned regularly nor protected
adequately from fire damage. Consequently, FMG is unlikely to see an
adequate return on these investments unless plantation management is
i-mproved. Because FNG and the State governments now agree on the impor-
tance of this issue, plantation management would be supported under the
proposed project.



-6-
D. Sector Strategy
2.13      While a formal forestry policy does not exist yet, FMG has
adopted an interim strategy for the sector based on the findings of a joint
FAO/Bank Forestry Sub-sector Review (Report No. WA-4066, June 30, 1982), and
other studies undertaken by FDF. The main elements of FMG's strategy, in
order of priority, are to: (i) develop an appropriate policy framework
which will guide the future use and development of Nigeria's forest
resources; (ii) support afforestation and watershed management programs on
lands which have been overcut or severely eroded from population and
livestock pressures or as a result of industrial activities; and (iii)
improve the supply of industrial timber in the most efficient and cost
effective manner. A discussion of the project in the context of these
priorities, which the Bank supports, is provided in para 3.01.
E.   Bank Involvement
2.14      The Bank's involvement in the sector has been through the First
Forestry Project (US$ 31 million, Ln. 1679-UNI, March 1979) which supported
FMG's strategy of establishing pulpwood plantations by providing for 22,600
ha of gmelina plantations in Ogun and Ondo States. The project also
provided for 1,600 ha of tropical pine plantations to be grown on a trial
basis in Anambra State and technical assistance for training, studies and
project management.
2.15      When the loan closed in mid-1986, a year behind the original
closing date, the project had achieved about 70% of the appraised planting
targets in Ogun and Ondo States. The reduction in planting resulted from
the shortfalls in FMG and state funding during project implementation.
Total project costs are now estimated at US$65 million, compared with
US$79.3 million at appraisal. The project was designed to supply pulpwood
to the Iwopin Mill, then under construction. In reaction to financial
pressures in the early 1980's, FMG slowed work on the mill and eventually
halted construction in 1984, with the mill, ft terms of costs, about 50%
complete. A recent Bank review of FMG's industrial sector program for the
Fifth Plan recommended FMG undertake a complete reappraisal of the mill
before any additional expenditure is incurred, noting that modifications in
project design would be needed for the mill to become economically viable.
FMG has indicated to the Bank that it does not intend to proceed with the
Iwopin pulpmill until after it has undertaken a reappraisal and only thLen
if it can be demonstrated that completing the mill would be an economically
viable proposition. The First Forestry Project's appraised ERR was 13% and
it is estimated that the project at completion would achieve a similar ERR
if the plantations were used for pulpwood. Considering the possibility the
mill will not be completed, a separate analysis indicates that the project
would yield an ERR of about 10% if the plantations were used for sawn
timber and fuelwood.
2.16      The Anambra pine trials experienced financial problems (lack of
state support) and other difficulties (fires and poor maintenance).
Although only 600 ha out of 1,600 ha have oeen established, the Bank and



-7-
FMG have concluded that 600 ha provide enough area to monitor further
development of the two pine species being tested and no further plantings
are therefore planned. FDF would continue evaluating the trials.
2.17      Under the First Forestry Project, the Ogun and Ondo State Govern-
ments were to agree with the Bank on a formula for calculating the stumpage
rates to be used for salvage logging of natural forest, gmelina pulpwood
ard sawlogs in the project area. Agreed upon rates were to be established
by June 30, 1980 and reviewed periodically thereafter. Before the study to
determine the formula for future rates was completed, Ogun and Ondo States
increased their charges for timber logged out of the forest reserves in
1979 and 1980 an average of 5 to 8 times over those rates which had been
prevailing previously. When the study was completed in December 1981. its
findings were contested by the Ministry of Industry on behalf of the Iwopin
pulpmill, which did not accept the formula for calculating the stumpage
value of gmelina pulpwood. At that point it was agreed to put the issue on
hold until further progress was made on the construction of the Iwopin
pulpmill. Under the proposed project, Ogun and Ondo states will review
their forest revenue systems and introduce appropriate changes by June 30,
1988 (para 2.11).
2.18      While the proposed project differs substantially in scope from
the First Forestry Project, lessons learned on local funding and policy
recommendations have been incorporated. The local funding requirements are
based on a conservative analysis of FMG and state resource availability
during the project period and are likely to be met. The policy recommenda-
tions would provide for a coherent approach to policy and revenue issues.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Origin and Bank Rationale
3.01      The project was identified in 1982 during the course of the First
Forestry Project. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program completed a preparation
report in 1983 and the Federal Department of Forestry (FDF) undertook
additional preparation work in 1984. The project was subsequently revised
during appraisal when the Federal Military Governmentts (FMG) proposals for
forestry during the Fifth Plan were reviewed. The appraisal's analysis
supported FMG's conclusions that the policy framework for the sector was
weak and needed strengthening and that investment activities should focus
primarily on afforestation and better use of existing resources as the most
efficient means of improving the supply of industrial timber. In terms of
investments, afforestation should receive the highest priority since a
failure to redress the threat of soil erosion stemming from deforestation
would result in the loss of large areas of productive land with huge
economic and sociological costs. The next highest priority was to find the
most efficient means of improving the supply of industrial timber. FMG
proposed to improve the management of existing plantations, which had been



ignored in recent years as a result of budget cuts, and to complement this
activity with a limited amount of new plantings. The mission's analysis
supported the approach.
3.02      The Bank's involvement in the proposed project would be
consistent with the initiatives in the Su'-Saharan Africa Report (Toward
Sustained Development in Sub-Saharan Afr -:a; September 1984). The Report's
section on conservation (pages 32-33) r' ed the need for investments in
afforestation, soil conservation and fue-wood production. These are areas
of emphasis in the proposed project. Furthermore, FMG has indicated its
desire to develop a comprehensive National Forest Policy which would
provide the basis for the future management and use of its forest
resources. It has turned to the Bank not only to provide external funding
for the required technical expertise but in order to obtain experience and
advice in these areas based on the Bank's exposure to similar situations
elsewhere in Africa and other parts of the world.
B.   Objectives and Description
3.03      The project has three objectives:
(a)  on a national level, to strengthen the structural base of
the sector through improved policies, training, studies and
research;
(b) in the northern and central regions of the country, to
stabilize soil conditions in threatened areas and to
increase the supply of fuelwood, poles and fodder through
farm forestry and shelterbelt activities; and
(c) in the southern and central region, to increase the supply
of industrial wood by improving the management of existing
forest reserves and plantations and establishing new
plantations.
The project would have components in nine of Nigeria's nineteen states (Map
19355) and would be carried out over an eight year period (1987 through
1994). The Afforestation Program (AP), comprising farm forestry and
shelterbelt activities (49% of base project cost) would be carried out in
the middle and northern regions of the country, while the Forest Management
Program (FMP), comprising improved management of forest reserves and
plantations and establishment of new plantations (35Z), would be carried
out in the middle and southern regions. In addition, the project would
provide assistance for management training, policy analysis, research and
studies (16%). Each of these components is described below.
(i).   The Afforestation Program (AP)
3.04      Details of AP are provided in Annex 3-1 with a comprehensive
treatment in Working Paper 2. AP is designed to meet the urgent need to
stabilize soil conditions in highly populated, productive areas of central



- 9 -
and northern Nigeria. It involves a series of investments in farm forestry
and, in certain states, shelterbelts. Both types of investments are
necessary to account for different risk/reward profiles associated with
different ecological zones with different population densities. The
shelterbelt program is confined to Nigeria's "arid zone", the area north of
12°N latitude which covers the northern half of Nigeria's five
northern-most states - Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Kano and Sokoto - where the
average annual rainfall varies from over 1,000 m in the southern part of
the zone to around 200 mm in the northeast.  This area will be referred to
in the rest of the report as zone 1. The farm forestry programs would be
undertaken in the same states, but on a broader, statewide basis. They
would be concentrated in zone 1 where they would be closely associated with
the shelterbelts to provide complementarity in terms of area protected.
The areas in the soathern half of the above five states which would benefit
from farm forestry activities will be referred to as zone 2. These areas
range between latitudes 8°N and 10°N and the annual rainfall averages 1,000
mm to 1,500 mm. A farm forestry program would also be implemented on the
Jos Plateau, a badly-eroded part of Plateau State in central Nigeria. This
area will be referred to as zone 3 and is situated around latitude IO0N
with annual average rainfall between 1,200 mm and 2,000 mm. Each of these
individual programs is described as follows.
3.05      Farm Forestry.  The farm forestry program would comprise a set of
activities designed to encourage tree planting and maintenance on farmland
in zones 1, 2 and 3. It includes: (i) nursery development to provide
sufficient seedlings of various types; (ii) efforts by agricultural
extension staff to encourage and advise farmers on tree planting,
protection and maintenance; and (iii) a mass media campaign to increase
farmer awareness of the need for and benefits of additional tree cover.
The activities would be statewide in Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Kano and
Sokoto. In Plateau State they would be confined to the Jos Plateau, one of
Nigeria's major watersheds, which ranges 700-1,340 m above sea-level and
faces severe erosion problems because of population pressures and
strip-mining. The aim is to involve about 250,000 farm families which
represent about 10Z of the farm families in the three zones. These
families together farm an area of some 750,000 ha. The farm forestry
component would only make a modest start at closing the deficit in the
northern states between demand for fuelvood and sustainable supply. If the
program is successfully received, it could be expanded to cover a greater
number of farm families.
3.06      Farm forestiy would be a low cost solution to stabilizing soil
conditions since the program offers a much greater scope for tree planting,
with each farmer contributing through his planting efforts, than if the
states had to incur the costs of direct planting. The design of the farm
forestry component carefully addresses the issue of farmer willingness to
take up and maintain seedlings. The proposed project would provide for the
close involvement in the farm forestry program of the agricultural
extension staff of the Bank-supported Agricultural Development Projects



- 10 -
(ADPs) which either exist or would soon exist in each state. 2/ ADP
extension staff would work closely with State Forestry Department (SFD)
extension staff and the farmers to ensure that the seedlings are delivered
at the correct time and that farmers receive adequate information on
planting, care and maintenance. The ADP media offices would help in the
preparation and distribution of media messages throughout each state
stressing the importance of tree planting to soil protection and as a
source of fuel, poles, fodder and income. Land tenure would not be a
major issue as the customary laws provide for land-rights to be vested in
individuals with the right of transfer through sale or inheritance.
3.07      Shelterbelts 3/.  In particularly dry areas which have good soil
potential, the project would establish 1,700 km of shelterbelts which would
protect an area of about 34,000 ha. When completed the proposed program
would double the area of shelterbelts in zone 1. Although states have
established shelterbelts successfully in the past, programs have been
severely curtailed in recent years because of funding problems. Project
activities include demarcating shelterbelt areas, arranging for land
acquisition, clearing the land, and planting, fencing and maintaining the
shelterbelts. Shelterbelts are relatively expensive compared with farm
forestry in terms of cost per ha protected (US$371 per ha for shelterbelts
and US$30 per ha for farm forestry- using base project costs), and they
therefore are only recommended for the most gravely affected areas with the
population density and the agricultural potential to justify this
investment and where lower-cost solutions like farm forestry alone would be
ineffective. Such areas exist in zone 1 where wind erosion and the effects
of overgrazing and overcutting threaten to render the land economically
useless. Shelterbelts in conjunction with farm forestry are viewed as the
most appropriate means of salvaging valuable areas of land in zone I which
otherwise might lose its economic worth.
3.08      Shelterbelts would be established directly by SFDs in four of the
five northern states. Kaduna would not initially participate in the
shelterbelt program since the EEC is currently assisting the state with the
construction of 170 km of shelterbelts. Procedures to compensate farmers
2/   Bauchi ADP (Ln. 1981-UNI), Southern Borno ADP (Ln 2741-UNI)., Kaduna
ADP (Ln. 2436-UNI), Kano ADP (Ln. 1982-UNI), and Sokoto ADP (Ln.
2185-UNI), and the Plateau State component of the Multi-State ADP
(2733-UNI).
3/   A typical shelterbelt consists of eight lines of fast-growing
eucalyptus or neem trees (about 8 years to mature) spaced three meters
apart. The belts are measured in distances, and a typical belt will
run from 1 to 20 km. Usually several belts are planted in parallel
and spaced about 200 meters apart (the distance a belt can effectively
protect). Thus a one km belt is said to protect 20 ha of land (1 km
long x 200 m wide = 200,000 m2 or 20 ha).



- 11 -
for the land to be used for shelterbelts are well established and present
no problems. The SFDs have the technical capacity to carry out the
proposed program. The AP states would consider the following criteria for
selecting areas for shelterbelts: (i) on average, there are less than four
farm trees per ha; (ii) there is evidence of declining yields, where
resowing is often necessary because of winds in the planting and
germination season; (iii) the remaining standing trees appear healthy,
indicating that the water table is intact; (iv) the area yields positive
results for soil and water table tests; and (v) the farming area is well
populated. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from the AP states
that these criteria would be considered in the selection of locations where
shelterbelts would be constructed (para 4.01(c)).
(ii). The Forest Management Program (FMP)
3.09      Assistance would be provided under FMP for improved management of
37,600 ha of existing industrial plantations and establishing 3,150 ha of
new plantations. Each component is summarized below with more detailed
information provided in Annex 3-2 and a complete description in Working
Paper 3.
3.10      Existing Plantations.  The project would provide for the improved
management of 37,600 ha of the estimated 150,000 ha of industrial planta-
tions in Nigeria which have been established in the last 25 years. The
project would assist plantations where investments in maintenance would be
expected to yield an ERR greater than 10Z. These turned out to be
plantations in Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo States which were near major
markets and which had been established on good land and therefore had
experienced the best growth and had excellent potential for future growth
if properly maintained. Given funding constraints, FDF and the states have
not been able to undertake the following comprehensive activities which the
project would undertake: (1) maintaining roads and fire breaks; (2) weeding
and controlling disease outbreaks; (3) thinning to permit maximum growth of
potentially valuable sawlogs; and (4) marketing and sawmill trials to
establish outlets for intermediate plantation products. The areas to be
maintained by species are as follows:



- 12 -
The Forest Management Program by Species and State
(In ha)
State               Gmelina   Teak   Eucalyptus       Total
Benue                 905      1,130      -           2,035
Kaduna                 -       1,260    1,260         2,520
Ogun               17,400      3,760      -          21,160
Ondo               11,400        430      -          11,830
Total              29,705      6.580    1,260        37,545
The primary benefits from the program would come from the increase in the
number of economically valuable sawlogs.
3.11      New Plantations.  FMG proposes to undertake selective new
plantings when done in conjunction with -forest management programs, as this
permits overheads and certain investment costs to be shared. Other factors
which are important in selecting sites for new plantations include the
species to be grown and the expected market for the offtake. On this basis
the proposed project would support new plantations of 700 ha of teak in
Benue State and 2,450 ha of pine and eucalyptus in Kaduna State. The
size of the new plantation program in Kaduna and Benue was based on SFD
management capability and technical factors including soil suitability. No
additional plantings in Ogun and Ondo States would be undertaken under this
project as the African Development Bank (ADB) has under consideration a
loan which will help establish about 12,000 ha of new gmelina plantations
in these states. FDF has worked closely with ADB and the Bank to ensure
that the two projects will not duplicate efforts. The Forestry Management,
Evaluation and Coordination Unit (FORMECU) would manage both projects and
there would be integrated management units in both states. The new
plantations, at a minimum, would meet part of Nigeria's deficit in
industrial fimber and would be economically viable.
(iii)   Management, Training, Policy Analysis, Research and Studies
3.12      The project would provide technical assistance as well as
vehicles, equipment and materials for the management, training, policy
analysis, research and studies activities of the proposed project.  The
most significant element would be technical assistance which would consist
of internationally-recuited experts (72 staffyears) on long-term
assignments and consultants (22.5 staffyears) on short-term assignments
undertaking studies or research work. The technical assistance program is
described in Annex 3-3.
3.13      Management.  The project would provide 69 staffyears of expert
assistance on long-term contracts to help manage the project. All
internationally recruited staff would be phased out by end of the project
implementation period by which time it -'s expected that all positions would
be filled by Nigerians. To this end, during the last six months of their
contract, the externally recruited experts would act as advisors to the



- 13 -
Nigerian staff succeeding rhem. Recruitment would be open to qualified
Nigerians who are expected to ill a number of these positions.
3.14      Training.  Improving traditiunal forestry training activities as
well as introducing forestry training to the agricultural extension staff
of ADPs would be important project activities.  A detailed description of
the training assistance to be provided under AP and FMP is contained in
Working Papers 2 and 3.
3.15      In AP, training plays a crucial role given that the success of
the farm forestry program depends significantly on ADP extension staff who
have to be trained to deliver a forestry extension message. The project's
Forestry Extension and Training Specialist would be responsible for
ensuring that SFD and ADP in each AP state work together to develop an
appropriate extension message for ADP staff and that this message was
effectively communicated. The specialist would liaise with the Forestry
Research Institute of Nigeria (FRIN), the Universities, the Agricultural
Extension Research Liaison Services and other sources throughout the
country to ensure that latest developments in research are incorporated in
extension training. To help meet training requirements, the project would
renovate and provide essential materials and equipment to the Kano Forestry
Vocational Training Center. The Center would provide courses for
silvicultural assistants, for forest guards and supervisors, and for
extension trainers from the SFDs and ADPs.
3.16      In FMP, assistance would be provided to the Oluwa Forestry
Training renter in Ondo State which was established under the First Forest-
ry Project. Oluwa provides for training needs in plantation practices both
for field workers and supervisors. The project would provide technical
assistance for: (1) an internationally-recruited training specialist (3
staffyears) to help coordinate and improve the technical quality of
instruction at Oluwa; (2) censultant assistance (1 staffyear) to help
develop specific training programs and materials; (3) teaching materials
and equipment; and (4) training visits locally and abroad.
3.17      Policy Analysis, Research and Studies.  The project would provide
21.5 staffyears of consultant assistance for policy analysis, research and
studies. Policy analysis refers to the studies required to formulate the
draft National Forest Policy and state forest revenue systems described in
paras 2.08 and 2.09 respectively. About 4 staffyears of consultancy
services would be required for these studies.
3.18      Research activities would be concentrated largely on
afforestation-related issues as significant work needs to be done to
develop a comprehensive base to support afforestation activities over the
longer term. The AMforestation Program Coordinating Unit (APCU), the
management unit responsible for coordinating AP activities, would oversee
the program. Research activities would aim to: (1) improve farm forestry
and shelterbelt establishment techniques, giving better tree survival and
growth; (2) examine the acceptability and effectiveness of alternative farm
forestry models; and (3) determine yields of wood and other tree products.



- 14 -
Research work would be closely coordinated with SFDs and FRIN, who would
carry out parts of the work with project assistance (about 11.0 staffyears
of consultancy services). A description of the proposed research program
is found in Annex 3-4.
3.19      The project would provide 6.5 staffyears of consultancy services
to carry out various studies and prepare for a future project. The two
major studies, whose Terms of Reference are found in Annex 3-5, are:
(i) National Afforestation Plan. An important project objective
would be to prepare a national plan for afforestation in
Nigeria. APCU would be responsible for preparing the plan
which would be based on their practical experience carrying
out the project's afforestation activities, as well as the
initial findings of some of the short-term research activi-
ties and consultants' studies of afforestation requirements
in areas of Nigeria not covered under the project. As APCU
would need time to digest the initial results coming out of
the project, FMG gave assurances during negotiations that
APCU would prepare a draft National Afforestation Plan by
December 31, 1989, and that after review by FMG, the Bank
and concerned states it would issue a final plan by June 30,
1990 (para 4.01(d)).
(ii) Household Energy Supply and Demand. APCU would be
responsible for carrying out this study, which was
identified in the Report of the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy
Sector Assessment Program (Report No. 4440-UNI, August
1983). It would survey rural-urban household energy
consumption patterns in Nigeria's five northern states to
determine types of fuel used, efficiency of consumption,
sources of supply, reliability of supply and costs. This
study is important because the project's farm forestry
activities, even if expanded later, cannot totally solve the
fuelwood deficit problem. The study would make
recommendations on the role of alternative fuels, pricing
policies and the introduction of more efficient means of
consuming energy. These recommendations would be important
in assisting Nigeria to find alternative ways of satisfying
or reducing household energy demand.    FMG gave assurances
at negotiations that APCU would complete a draft study by
December 31, 1987 for review by FMG, the Bank and concerned
states and that a final report would be issued by June 30,
1988. FMG would carry out the recommendations according to
the timetable contained in the report (para 4.01(e)).



- 15 -
C.   Organization, Implementation and Present Status of Project
3.20      The project's organization and implementation arrangements, as
summarized below, are discussed in Annex 3-6 and Working Papers 2 and 3.
The project's implementation schedule is found in Annex 3-7. FDF would
coordinate project activities through the Forestry Management, Evaluation
and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU), which would be officially established
under the project. FORMECU would concentrate on supervising FMP activities
and would have responsibility for reviewing the draft National Forest
Policy and overseeing the studies on forest revenue systems in the project
states. The Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit (APCU) would be
established in Kano to coordinate AP's activities in the six participating
central and northern states. APCU would report to FORMECU and would be
responsible for the intensive activities required to ensure the successful
establishment of afforestation activities. APCU would carry out the
research program on afforestation issues, the preparation of the National
Afforestation Plan and the Household Energy Supply and Demand study. FMG
provided assurances at negotiations that it would establish FORMECU and
APCU on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and appoint
individuals to fill four positions in these units (Head and Financial
Adviser, FORMECU; Project Coordinator and Financial Controller, APCU) whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.02
(f)). Appointment of acceptable candidates would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para 4.02 (a)).
3.21      As in the First Project, field level activities would be carried
out by a project unit in each of the nine participating states, reporting
to the state's Chief Conservator of Forests. Kaduna State, the only one
with both FNP and AP components, would have separate project units for each
component. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all state project
units vould be established on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.01(g)). Appointment of at least five project unit managers
acceptable to the Bank and ratification of at least five Project Agreements
would be conditions of loan effectiveness (para 4.02(b)).
3.22      To coordinate activities within each AP state, each AP state gave
assurances at negotiations that it would establish a statewide
Afforestation Committee by December 31, 1987, which would meet
semi-annually to ensure that the operations of various agencies in rural
afforestation are properly coordinated (para 4.01(h)). Each committee
would be chaired by the State Commissioner in-charge of the Forestry
Division and have the head of the state AP project unit as Executive
Secretary.  Other agencies represented would include the local River Basin
Rural Development Authority, ADP, FDF, SFD, Livestock Department and
representatives from the Local Goverment Authorities.
3.23      Project implementation should proceed on schedule, in part
because FORMECU and the State Units in Ogun and Ondo are functioning under
the First Forestry Project and would continue operating without
interruption. FORMECU's senior staff are familiar with project details and
are preparing the necessary groundwork to start up AP and TFP activities



- 16 -
and the policy studies. Recruitment of international staff would be
handled by the Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency (FARA) in the UK, an
institution established by FMG to recruit international staff for ADPs.
Supported by the Bank under the Agricultural Technical Assistance Loan (Lu.
2029-UNI), FARA works smoothly and efficiently. The project's initial
local funding requirements (para 3.29) amount to less than 1Z of estimated
total investment resources to be spent on agriculture by FMG and the
participating states in 1987 and should be affordable.
D.   Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.24      The total project cost is estimated at US$110.7 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$41.4 million or 37%. If taxes and duties
are excluded, total costs would be US$108.1 million. Project costs are
calculated using prices obtained at appraisal and updated to May 1986, the
date of negotiations, with further adjustments made to reflect local and
foreign inflation between negotiations and January 1, 1987, the estimated
date of project start-up. Physical contingencies have been calculated at
10X of base costs except for salaries and wages which have been calculated
at 5%. Price contingtncies have been calculated on base costs plus
physical contingencies and compounded annually, using the following rates:
Price Contingencies Assumed in Project Cost
(in Z)
1987-88    1989       1990    1991-95
Foreign Costs:          6.8       7.0        7.1      4.0
Local Costs:           14.0      14.0       14.0      8.0
Total contingencies (physical and price) are equivalent to 35% of total
project costs or 54% of base costs. Detailed project costs are found in
Annex 3-8 and Working Paper 4.
3.25      The proposed Bank loan of US$71.0 million would finance 64Z of
project costs (or 66% net of taxes). FMG would finance US$27.7 million
(25%) and the State Governments together US$12.0 million (11%). FMG would
relend US$24.6 million of the Bank loan (35%) on the terms of the Bank loan
to Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo States for the commercially-oriented FNP
component (essentially for plant, equipment, buildings and furniture) under
subsidiary loan agreements between FMG and the State Governments. Comple-
tion of these agreements would be a condition of disbursement of the Bank
loan for the individual state component (para 4.03). The states would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The balance of the loan (US$46.4 million, 65Z)
would finance FORMECU's operations and AP. Given the essentially
non-commercial nature of AP activities, FMG would pass the Bank funds
designated to finance AP activities on a grant basis to the concerned
states. Cost recovery issues are discussed in paras 3.33 and 3.34.



- 17 -
3.26      Project costs have been calculated on an incremental basis and
are over and above the present expenditures by FMG and the nine states on
comparable forestry operations. These ongoing costs are estimated to total
about US$18.2 million over the eight year project period in current prices.
The total program costs (over the same eight year period) would amount to
US$134.9 million and include incremental project costs (US$110.7 million,
82%), FMG's and the states non-incremental costs (US$18.2 million, 14Z),
and farmers' contributions to AP in form of labor and some materials
(US$6.1 million, 4%). Total program financing would be as follows: IBRD,
US$71.0 million (53%); FMG US$31.6 million, (23%); state governments,
US$26.3 million (20Z); and farmers, US$6.1 million (4%). The details of
the financing plan are found in Annex 3-9.



- 18 -
E.   Procurement
3.27      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Component                ICB     LCB    Others      NA     Total
1.  Civil Works a/                   -       2.0     0.5         -      2.5
(1.7)   (0.4)              (2.1)
2. Vehicles, Equipment,
Materials, Furniture,           21.4    3.6      8.7         -     33.7
and Spare Parts b/             (21.4)  (3.2)   (7.6)              (32.2)
3.  Land for Shelterbelts                                      6.1      6.1
and Nurseries c/                                           C-)      C-)
4.  Consultants, International       -         -     7.4        -       7.4
Salaries and Training d/                        (7.3)       -      (7.3)
5.  Wages for seasonal e/           -          -       -      27.6     27.6
employees                                               (16.6)   (16.6)
6.  Salaries f/                      -         -       -      12.7     12.7
7.  Vehicle/Plant Operating Costs   -          -       -    20.7       20.7
and General Services g/          -                      (12.8)    (12.8)
Total                       21.4    5.6    16.6    67.1       110.7
IBRD                       (21.4)  (4.9)  (15.3)  (29.4)    (71.0)
Note:  1.  Contingencies are included in the amounts shown.  Amounts
in brackets indicate IBRD participation.
2.  All bidding packages for goods and works over
US$300,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review
(estimated at about 65% of total value).
a/     Civil works contracts, amounting to US$2.5 mn, would be mainly for
nursery construction under AP and project facilities (housing and
workshops) under FlP. Given the expected small amount of each
contract and the scattered nature of the works, about 80% of the
contracts would be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank (Annex 3-10). Minor civil works,



- 19 -
mainly involved in establishing or relocating nurseries under AP
would be carried out using force account.
b/     Contracts for vehicles, equipment, materials, furniture and spare
parts, amounting to US$33.7 mn, would be grouped where possible into
contracts valued at US$300,000 or more and would be procured through
international competitive bidding. A margin of preference equal to
15% of the C.I.F. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs
duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed for
domestic manufacturers. Contracts below US$300,000 would be
procured through competitive shopping with at least three
quotations. An exception would be for the procurement of treated
poles (about US$3.4 million) to be used primarily in fencing
shelterbelts. As their unit value is low and transport costs
high, and they are available locally, imports would not be
competitive. These would be purchased locally using LCB.
C/     The project would provide compensation to farmers for the
land to be used for shelterbelts and nurseries worth US$6.1 million
d/     The services of consultants, internationally-recruited staff and
training assistance, valued at US$7.4 million, would be obtained in
accordance with Bank guidelines. FARA would recruit 72 staffyears
of international staff. FORNECU and APCU would be responsible for
employing about 14.5 staffyears of foreign (80%) and local (20Z)
consultant services.
e/     Seasonal employees would be required in FMP and AP
for manual operations (clearing, thinning, planting, nursery
preparation, shelterbelt establishment, etc). These staff would be
hired for specific jobs at the prevailing local wage rate.
f/    Salaries refer to costs of incremental project staff needed to carry
out the project.
V      Incremental vehicle/plant operating contracts and general services
contracts, amounting to US$20.7 mn, would be for operating expenses,
office/house rentals, administration and travel expenses, building
maintenance, bank charges and audit fees. Contracts over US$300,000
would be procured through LCB; contracts below this level would be
procured by competitive shopping with at least three quotations.
F.   Disbursement
3.28      The Bank loan of US$71 million would be disbursed over an eight
year period beginning in January 1987. Disbursements are based on an
initial year of start-up which includes nursery preparation and land
acquisition for AP, and land clearing for FMP, followed by a six year
investment period and a year to complete operations. The disbursement
period is considered realistic and takes into consideration: (i) the
experience of the First Forestry Project (full disbursement expected in 6½



- 20 -
years); (ii) the West African regional profile for agricultural projects
(8½ years); and (iii) the project design. The proposed allocation of loan
proceeds and the disbursement percentages are given below:
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Amount of the             Z of Expenditure
Category                       Loan Allocated            to be Financed
1. Civil Works                      2.0                 85%
2. Vehicles, Equipment,            29.0                  100% of foreign and
Materials, Furniture                                 80% of local.
and Spare Parts
3.  International Salaries,         7.0                  100% of foreign
Consultants and Training                            and 80Z of local.
4.  Wages for seasonal employees  15.2                  60%
5. Operating Costs and             11.0                  65%
General Services
6. Unallocated                      6.8
71.0
Statements of expenditures would be used to document claims for civil works
done by force account, wages and operational costs. Documentation would be
held by the project units for review by Bank supervision missions and
project auditors. Whenever possible, withdrawal applications would be
aggregated in amounts of US$50,000 or more prior to submission to the Bank
Group for reimbursement out of the loar proceeds. A summary disbursement
schedule, showing amounts to be disbvSrsed to FORMECU, APCU and the states
under FNP, and a chart providing a graphic representation of the
disbursement profile are provided in Annex 3-11.
3.29      Project and Special Accounts. FMG and the project states gave
assurances at negotiations that FORMECU, APCU and the project units would
each establish a project account (Account No. 1) in a local commercial bank
to receive the project contributions of FMG and the states, a2d that
FORMECU would deposit the equivalent of US $1 million in APCU's Account
No.l. FMG and the states would promptly pay their annual contributions
quarterly into these accounts in advance (par3 4.01(i)). FMG gave further
assurances at negotiations that it would make an initial deposit into
FORMECU's Account No. 1 of the equivalent of US $2 million (501 of the
first year's contribution) and that FOIMECU would deposit the equivalent of
US $1 million in APCU's Account No.l. Each state gave assurances that it
would make an initial deposit of 50% of its first year's contribution into
its project unit Account No. 1 (for the nine states amounting to the



- 21 -
equivalent of US $750,000) (para 4.01(j)). Compliance with this condition
by FMG, at least two of the states in FMP and at least three of the states
in AP would be conditions of loan effectiveness (para 4.02(c). In
addition, Special Accounts (Account No. 2), which would be denominated in
U.S. dollars, would be established in local conmercial banks by FORMECU,
APCU and the FMP project units in Benue, Ogun, Ondo and Kaduna states into
which the Bank would make initial deposits totalling US$3.5 million, and
which would be used to prefinance goods and services which are reimbursable
under the loan. The Special Accounts would be operated under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank and their replenishment would be condi-
tional on FMG's and FMP states' quarterly releases of their contributions.
Assurances to this effect were given at negotiations (para 4.01(k)).
Details of how the Special Accounts would operate, and the initial amounts
to be deposited in each, can be found in Annex 3-12.
G.   Auditing and Reporting
3.30      It was agreed at negotiations that:  (1) the accounts of FORMECU,
APCU and the FMP project units (Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo), including
separate accounts for amounts withdrawn on the basis of SOEs and the
Special Project Accounts; and (2) the accounts of AP state units (Bauchi,
Borno, Kaduna, Kano, Plateau and Sokoto) would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that audit reports would
be submitted 6 months after the close of FMG's fiscal year (para 4.01(1)).
It also was agreed that FORMECU (for FMP) and APCU (for AP) would submit
semi-annual progress reports to the Bank (para 4.01(m)).
H.   Production and Markets
3.31      The annual production figures and the mean annual increment per
species for both AP and FMP are provided in Annex 3-13.  Over the project's
estimated life (35 years for AP and 52 years for FMP), incremental wood
production in total wvold amount to 4.3 million m3. Of this, some 2.5
million m3 (58%) would be fuelwood, 1.3 million m3 (30%) would be for
poles, and 0.5 million m 3 (12%) would be for sawlogs.  In addition, AP
production would include a substantial but unquantified amount of fodder
for livestock, and an estimated 10 million mango fruits and 28 million
cashew nuts.
3.32      Under FMP, the industrial plantation project units would market
fuelwood and building poles from sales points in market towns near the
project areas. This approach was followed during previous ADPs and has
worked successfully. The small amount of higher quality poles would be
sold to treatment plants for conversion into electric poles for which there
is considerable demand. The most valuable output, sawlogs, would be sold
to sawmillers for conversion to sawn timber. Since the annual incremental
sawlog production would average less than 0.5% of the present annual intake
by the sawmilling industry (about 6 million m 3), no marketing problems are
anticipated. Under AP, the average annual incremental amount of fuelwood
produced per annum when the project is fully developed would not exceed



- 22 -
1-21 of the estimated present annual deficit between demand and sustainable
supply of fuelwood in the wood deficit areas of Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna,
Kano, Plateau and Sokoto (5 to 8 million ms). Given that an average family
of six consumes about 3m9 of fuelvood per annum, incremental fuelvood
production would meet the annual needs of some 30-50,000 families. The
fuelwood and small poles produced under the farm forestry program would be
used on the farm. Shelterbelts would be thinned for fuelvood and poles,
and the offtake marketed locally.
I.   Financial Impact and Cost Recovery
3.33      The project's financial impact and provisions for cost recovery
vary by component. There are various ways for AP to achieve cost recovery.
For the farm forestry component the easiest practice would be to charge for
seedlings when they are made available to farmers. Until recently, the
practice in Nigeria has been to distribute seedlings free to farmers as a
means of encouraging tree planting. In the last few years the demand for
fruit tree seedlings has reached the point where SFDs have begun to charge
for them in order to bring supply and demand into balance. Charges vary
by northern states ard within states, but some SFDs are collecting Nl per
seedling for budded iangos. At present no charges are levied for non-fruit
trees as there is less perceived economic value associated with these
trees. The proposed media/extension effort would be targeted to change
formers' perceptions on the value of non-fruit trees. For the
shelterbelts, state governments are treating these as infrastructure works,
like roads, as they are large, singular investments whose merits are based
on their ecological benefits. At present neither FMG nor the states charge
farmers or communities for constructing shelterbelts. However, it should
be possible to recover some of their costs through the licensed harvesting
of fuelwood and poles, or perhaps by charging the benefitting communi-
ties/farmers a tariff to reflect part or all of the costs of construction.
These issues would be explored in detail in the proposed studies of the
state forest revenue systems (para 2.09). The studies in the AP states
would deal specifically with the issue of cost recovery of AP activities,
and a revenue system would be recommended that would move to full cost
recovery of AP as soon as feasible.
3.34      It is expected that FMP would achieve full cost recovery.
However, sales of industrial wond from project plantations would be on the
basis of market prices and therefore it is impossible to say with certainty
if cost recovery would be achieved. A cash flow analysis of FMP, found in
Annex 3-14, based on conservative estimates of market prices shows that FMP
revenues should cover operating costs and debit service on the re-lent
proceeds of the proposed World Bank loan (US$24.6 million) and provide a
reasonable financial return to the states on their investment. FMG's
contribution to FMP (N8.7 million) would be treated as a development grant
to the states following the standard practice in Nigeria for forestry
investments. The annual cash flow of FMG covering the project
implementation period and five years thereafter is provided in the table on
page 2 of the above annex. It shows that FMG would experience a negative
cash flow during this period, reflecting the grant element in FMH's support



- 23 -
cash flow during this period, reflecting the grant element in FMG's support
for AP activities and the costs of the federally-supported management units
training activities, studies and research.
J.   Benefits and Risks
3.35      Given the differing natures of the Afforestation Program (AP) and
Forest Management Program (FMP), an overall project ERR has not been
calculated. For AP, the ERR is estimated at 15% and for FMN, 17Z. Each is
summarized below. A description of the methodology and the assumptions
used in the analysis is provided in Annexes 3-15 (AP) and 3-16 (FMP);
supporting documentation is contained in Working Paper 5.
3.36      The following table presents a breakdown of the ERR for AP by
type of benefit (incremental production of fuelwood/poles and increased
agriculture and livestock production; by type of investment (shelterbelts
or farm forestry); and by location (zone 1 - the area above 12'N latitude
in the five northern states, zone 2 - the remainder of the five states and
zone 3 - the J0s Plateau). The first row shows the ERR for fuelwood and
pole production alone, the second row, the amount by which the ERR is
raised on account of the ecological benefits:
ERR for AP by Type of Benefit, by Investment and by Zone
Zone 1 and 2                   Zone 3
Shelter-       Farm                Farm
Benefit                         belts       Forestry            Forestry
Fuelwood/Poles                  7%             4%                  16%
Agriculture/Livestock           8Z            10%              Not calculated
Total ERR                   15%            14%                    16%
3.37      In zones I and 2, the AP's output of fuelvood and poles would
only provide an ERR ranging from 4-7%. In zone 3, where the rainfall is
much higher, wood grows substantially faster than in zones 1 and 2, and
incremental fuelwood/pole production would provide an economic return of
16% on project investment. The shelterbelts and farm forestry activities
iL zones 1 and 2 are projected to yield substantial agricultural and
livestock benefits which, when combined with the wood benefits, give a
satisfactory ERR. It should be noted that the assumptions used in
calculating agricultural and livestock benefits for shelterbelts and farm
forestry have been conservative. In the case of shelterbelts, the analysis
assumes they would have a 20X (±5%) effect on both crop yields (i.e.,
improved crop output because of greater moisture availability and nutrient
content in the soil) and livestock benefits (greater livestock production
resulting from increased crop residues used for fodder and greater supplies
of browse). In the case of farm forestry, a 10% increase in the value of
crop and livestock production was assumed. No agricultural or livestock



- 24 -
benefit were calculated for zone 3, but if they had been computed, the ERR
would have exceeded 20Z.
3.38      Of the above assumptions about agricultural and livestock
benefits, only the impact which shelterbelts produce on crop production has
been verified by similar experiences elsewhere. Studies undertaken in more
than 15 countries over the past 50 years have noted that shelterbelts can
p_oduce benefits in excess of the 20% incremental growth assumed in the
present analysis. Less information is available on the effects of farm
forestry on the yields of crops, but the 10% effect on yield is considered
conservative if a good farmer-response is achieved; in fact, only about a
5% effect on yields is required to justify the program economically. The
sensitivity analyses considered a 10% increase in costs, a three year lag
in farmer response, and various rates of decline in soil fertility ranging
from 0% per year (to give the "pure" production benefits of the project) to
3% per year, plus one case where land might eventually be lost if erosion
were severe. The overall result is that the expected ERR ranged from 11 to
17% for farm forestry, with an expected value of 14%, and from 12 to 16%
for shelterbelts, with an expected value 14% (Annex 3-15).
3.39      Risks associated with shelterbelt establishment are not
considered to be great. The states of K;ano and Sokoto have planted over
1,500 km of shelterbelts. The proposed project would improve the site
selection procedures and thus an 80% survival rate is expected. The risks
of the farm forestry program are more considerable since the program
depends entirely on farmer acceptance which will not be known until
activities are underway. For this reason much attentiou has been given to
reasons for past failures in designing the component. The major innovation
would be the close involvement of the state agricultural extension services
in the process of transferring seedlings to farmers and providing advice on
planting and follow-up care. The farm forestry program would also include
an extensive media program to deepen farmer awareness of ecological
problems and the role of tree planting in arresting these problems.
Finally the program would include regular monitoring of farmer response to
permit changes in approach durtng the proiect period (such as different
types of seedlings made availab'e, different patterns of seedling
distribution, or increases in the numbers of seedlings supplied) to meet
farmer preferences.
3.40      FMP is designed to be a commercially viable program which will
improve the return on existing but neglected assets (maintenance of
existing plantations) and new assets (new plantations). The ERR for both
types of investments under FMP would be 17% with net present value of N12.7
million. The ERR is relatively insensitive to price and benefit changes:
costs would have to increase by 72% or benefits decrease by 42% for the ERR
to fall below 10%. FMP faces no unusual risks. Funding was the major
factor affecting the industrial plantations in the First Forestry Project,
and the proposed project has been designed to require substantially less
funding per annum from FMG and the participating states than the previous
project. Cost recovery would be a problem if recommendations of the



- 25 -
proposed state forest revenue system studies were not adopted by the states
as called for under the project.
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01      During negotiations for t'e proposed loan, the following
principal issues were discussed and agreements reached with FMG and the
participating states, and specified as conditions in the Loan and Project
Agreements.
(a) FMG would: (i) ensure that FORMECU carries out a review of
the draft National Forest Policy by December 31, 1987 and
submit to the Bank for its review by June 30, 1988, the
National Forest Policy; (ii) after an exchange of views with
the Bank, publish by December 31, 1988 the revised draft
National Forest Policy; and (iii) review the said National
Forest Policy by June 30, 1990, and in each year thereafter
until project cc'npletion, taking into account the Bank's
views and the recommendations resulting from the proposed
National Afforestation Plan (para 2.08).
(b) EfMG would ensure that FORMECU would empLoy consultants by
December 31, 1986 to undertake re%iews of forest revenue
systems in each of the project states to be completed in
draft by June 30, 1987 for review and comment by FMG, the
states and the Bank. Bearing in mind the comments received,
each project state would introduce a revised state forest
revenue system by June 30, 1988. FHG shall, within the
limits of its constitutional powers, take all necessary
action to ensure that each project state would adopt the
proposed system by June 30, 1988 (para 2.09);
(c) The AP States would employ the criteria set out in para 3.08
in selecting areas where shelterbelts would be constructed
(para 3.08);
(d) FMG would ensure that APCU would prepare a draft National
Afforestation Plan b-sed on studies and research to be
undertaken in agreement with the Bank by December 31, 1989,
and, after considering the views of the Bank and concerned
states, issue the final plan by June 30, 1990 (para
3.19(i));
(e)  FMG would ensure that APCU would complete a draft study of
household energy supply and demand in Nigeria's five north-
eru states by December 31, 1987, and after review by FMG,
the Bank and concerned states, issue a final report by June
30, 1988. FMG would carry out the recommendations according
to the timetable contained in the report (para 3.19(ii));



- 26 -
(f)  FMG would establish FORNECU and APCU on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and appoint individuals
to fill four positions in these units (Head and Financial
Adviser, FORMECU; Project Coordinator and Financial
Controller, APCU) whose qualifications and experience shall
be satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.20);
(g) The states would establish project units on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 3.21);
(h)  Each AP state would establish a statewide Afforestation
Committee by December 31, 1987, to meet semi-annually to
coordinate rural afforestation (para 3.22);
(i)  FNG and the project states would ensure that FORMECU, APCU
and the project units would establish accounts in commercial
banks (Account No. 1). FMG and the project states would
promptly pay their contributions quarterly into these
accounts in advance (para 3.29);
(j) FMG would make an initial deposit of into FORMECU's No. 1
account of the equivalent of US $2 million, FORNECU would
deposit the equivalent of US $1 million in APCU's account
No. 1, and each state would make an initial deposit
equivalent to 50% of its first year's contribution into the
state project unit's Account No. 1 (para 3.29);
(k) FORMECU, APCU and FMP state units would establish Special
Accounts (Account No. 2) denominated in US dollars for
prefinancing items eligible for Bank reimbursement;
replenishment of these accounts by the Bank would be condi-
tional on FMG's and FMP states' quarterly releases of their
contributions (para 3.29);
(1) Annual audits would be conducted for FORNECU, APCU and the
state project units by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank, to be submitted 6 months after the close of FMG's
fiscal year (para 3.30); and
(m) FMG would ensure that FORMECU and APCU would submit
semi-annual progress reports (para 3.30).
4.02      Conditions of loan effectIveness would be that:
(a)  FMG would have established FORMECU and APCU and have
appointed candidates acceptable to the Bank for Head and
Financial Adviser of FORMECU and for Project Coordinator and
Financial Controller of APCU (para 3.20);



- 27 -
(b) at least five project unit managers have been appointed with
candidates acceptable to the Bank and at least five Project
Agreements have been ratified (para 3.21); and
(c) FMG would have opened project accounts (Account No 1) on
behalf of FORMECU and APCU and would have made the initial
deposits; and at least two of the states in FMP and three of
the -.tates in AP would have opened project accounts (Account
No. 1) and would have made their initial deposits (3.29).
4.03      It would be a condition of loan disbursement for funds for each
state in the FMP program that it had completed its subsidiary loan agree-
ment with FMG providing for the onlending of the Bank loan funds designated
for that state (para 3.25).
4.04      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$71 million to the Federal Republic of
Nigeria.
WAPAB
September 1986



- 2B-
NICUTA
Features of tew  MtuSltural Sector                               Anlnex  1
Vit          1974-76 AV.        196
1.      t     ^
Totad (growth rate)                milion         74.9 (2.5)       93.6 (3.3)
Bural as X Total                      S            81.6              7e
sural Tmlies                        '000          10,211           12.168
2. Econedic OVerVIew
CDGPIed of Total Population                         521              767
Agdc. GOPlsld of srad Poultio         $             173              233
Agricultural GP as 2 of Total   S                    24               30
3. Lmd ff  a*
Land Aracl                           q. km.       910.770          910,770
orest                              '000 ha         16.357           14.000
Perennil Cro                       '000 be          2,497            2.535
An*a Cre"                          '000 ba         27,503           27.900
Of Which: Area Irrigated a*      '000 ha             la               32
4. Outputs                         69-71 Lv. - 100
1. Root Crops                         "               104               90
2. Sorm                               "               100               83
3. MilUlt                             "               111              107
4. Ground_nt (to sbhll)               "                23               32
Liveetock
cattle                             -               100              106
Sheep/goats                                        109              125
Poultry                                            107              187
PIs-                                               113              163
cereal Productiou/Wead of Total
Population                                          90               80
Ceraljle   of Rural Population        "                92               83
5. Inlets
Fertilizer                         i000 tos           124              608
Pesticide                          '000 liters        na.              a.n.
Tractors /                           uidts          7.500            9.500
6. Trade a1
Total Eorte                          S *            9.312           11.314
Of Whicb:
AgrLcultural Products              S                 5              4
Of Which:
1. Cocoas*d Products             1                68             74
2. bobber                        z                 6              6
3. Pals Produce Carmle, oll)   2                  14             10
Total Iports  /                                     5.670           13.437
Of Which:
AgIcultural Products                                 8             13
1. Cereale and Prepartlo         S                38             42
2. Sugar and Iobe                                 23             23
3. DAdry Products and E4gg       S                19              9
Agricultural Inputs                S                 2              6
7. Gor  nt Expendture b/
Total Rarrent Budget                 $ a            2.040            8.562
Of Which: Agriculur                                     I       I
Total Capital Budget                 S a            5.332            3,024
Of Which: Agriculture                 r                 2             13
Dag for 1983 eonly.
Fe ra lGvarnmt only.
r/  Remainlg land area Is under peranent pastura and other laud ucs.
Data Sources: (l) FAO Produetion. Fertellisr and Trade Yearbooks; (iI) Nigeria
Cotry Econoiec hm  (Dec. 1985); (Iii) Nigera Agricultural Pricing Policy Peport
WAPAB                  (Oct. 1984); (lv) Rev.s1 Of Public Expedltur Pn m in Nigeria (Oct. 1985); (v)
September 1986    lID Data Bank and (vi) VAM's Key Indicator Table of 1186.



- 29 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Supply and Demand Characteristics of the Forestry Sector
1.        Overall Demand Supply.  jstimated annual demand (cons mption) in
1983 amounts to 50 to 55 million m3 of which 45 to 50 million m represents
fuelvood and poles and 5 million m , industrial wood. EsSimated annual
supply on a sustainable basis is about 40 to 45 million m . The supply
comes from 2 sources: (i) lands outside the forest reserves and (ii) the
forest reserves. The largest source is from trees/brush found in forest
areas, and on agricultural/other lands outside the reserves. The sustain-
able yields from this sour9e are not accurately known but they probably do
not exceed 25-30 million m per annum and are declining since the.;e areas
are most frequently overcut to meet the deficit.  The second source, the
forest reserves 1/, provide about 15 million m of wood annually on a
sustainable basis (9.6 million ha with an assumed mean annual increment of
1.5 m /ha).  Thus, th5 annual deficit could be as high as 15 million m  or
as low on 5 villion m , depending on consumption patterns and rainfall in
y one year. Probably on average the deficit amounts to some 10 mUllion
m . The deficit is regionalized, comprising about 5 to 8 million m of
fuelwood and poles in the north (the south is self-sufficient in fuelwood
and poles) and 2 to 3 million m of industrial wood in the south (the
sawmiilling industry is located in the southern half of the country near the
source of supply).
2.        Fuelwood and Poles.  The imbalance between supply and demand of
fuelwood and poles is most pronounced in Nigeria's five northern states of
Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, K no and Sokoto where the annual deficit amounts to
between 5 to 8 million m . Land is rapidly being cleared for agricultural
purposes and commercial fuelwood suppliers are having to travel several
hundred kilometers to collect wood for urban markets. Poor rainfall
conditions and increased numbers of nomadic herdsmen, driven south into
Nigeria by drought in the Sahel, have exacerbated the pressure on the tree
stocks in the north. The imbalance in fuelwood supply between the north
and south is reflected in prices Nhich range as high as N120Im  in northern
urban centers compared with N10/m in the south.
3.        Industrial Wood.  Most demand for industrial wood comes from 23
large private saw mills (annual intake 500 3000 m ) and some 950 smaller
private mills (annual intake 4.0 million m ) located for the most part in
the forest zones in the middle and southern belts. In addition there are 6
L/   About 7.2 million ha 175%) of the reserves are situated in the
northern part of the country with the remaining 2.4 million (25%) in
tze wetter middle and southern regions.



- 30 -
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 2
plywood mills (annual wood intake 220,000 m ) also owned for the most part
by the private sector. FMG has been responsible for investment in pulp and
paper mills, embarking on three major projects in the mid 1970s. It has
recently completed expansion of the pulp and paper mill at Jebba to produce
65,000 tons per gnnum of industrial paper and paperboard (annual wood
intake 130,000 m ). A second mill at Calabar to produce 100,000 tons pes
annum of newsprint began operating in 1985 (annual wood intake 384,000 m
Athird pulp and paper mill at Iwopin for fine paper (annual intake 650,000
m) has been partially completed, but the high cost of the remaining works
(N300 million) has led FMG to postpone further investment for the present.
4.        Total annual industiial wood requirements (sawlogs and veneer
logs) in 1985 amounted to about 5 million m . At present only about 1.6
million ha of the forest reserves (out of 2.4 million ha) in the forest
zones (including 150,000 ha of plantations) are capable of providing about
2.4 million m of industrial wood annually on a sustained basis. The
remaining supply comes from forest areas outside the forest reserves which
are being overcut in order to meet demand. It is estimated that at present
levels of overcutting those areas are likely to be stripped of their
commercial timber by the end of the century.
5.        Implications.  With estimated fuelwood and pole demand exceeding
sustainable supply in the north, the gap is filled by overcutting trees on
existing lands, leading to loss of tree cover and potential loss of soil
productivity. To counter these problems afforestation programs are
urgently needed. There are also other areas to be examined, since
afforestation programs alone will not meet northern fuel requirements. One
is the introduction of alternative fuels. With fuelwood price increases in
the north, alternative fuels such as kerosene become attractive. FMG's
recent decision to increase substantially all fuel prices except kerosene,
vhich will now be cross-subsidized, will enable kerosene to remain as a
possible substitute for fuelwood in urban areas of the north. Since the
present knowledge on the extent of kerosene use in the north is limited,
the project would include funds to study household energy consumption
patterns and preferences. A second factor which would help dampen the
growth of consumption is the introduction of fuel efficient stoves. The
extent to which I.-proved stoves are being used or could be introduced in
northern areas weuld be examined under the proposed household energy study.
6.        in the case of industrial wood, the prospects are that in the
forest areas outside the reserves all the valuable industrial species will
have been logged by the end of the century. Nigeria will then be forced to
import sawlogs or increase its imports of forest products. Nigeria would
need to plant 250,000 ha of forest plantations just to meet the current
deficit, and substantially greater hectarage to meet expected growth in
demand. In addition to replanting programs, the country needs to improve
the management of existing plantations to make sure present resources are
well utilized. The proposed project would support improvements in forest
management and provide assistance for high priority planting.
WAPAB
September 1986



- 31 -
Annex 2-2
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Institutions in the Forestry Sector
1.        Organizational Structure.  Responsibility for forestry affairs at
the national level rests with the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water
Resources and Rural Development (FMAWRRD). Within FMAWRRD, the Federal
Department of Forestry (FDF), located in Lagos, carries out the ministry's
responsibilities for: (i) formulating national forest policies; (ii)
promoting forestry projects that are of national interest, and channelling
federal funds to finance such projects to the states; and (iii) coordinat-
ing and monitoring state forestry activities. Under the First Forestry
Project, FDF established the Forestry Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in
lbadan to coordinate IBRD-assisted project activities and monitor other
federally-assisted forestry projects throughout the country. The above
unit's responsibilities would be extended to cover the proposed project as
well as other donor-assisted activities in the forestry sector. Its name
would be changed to the Forestry Management, Evaluation and Coordinating
Unit (FORMECU).
2.        The State Forestry Departments (SFDs), headed by  Chief Conser-
vator of Forests (CCF), are directly responsible for the actual management
of the forest reserves in each state as well as for the control of
non-reserved forests. The SFDs work closely with the Local Government
Authorities (LGAs) within each state, and their roles in terms of estab-
lishing plantations, issuing licenses and collecting revenues vary among
states. For the most part the SFDs have responsibility for establishing
and managing new plantations and setting stumpage fees for various species.
In some states, the LGAs issue licenses for harvesting forest reserves and
collect revenues, which are kept by the LGAs and form a major source of
their incomes. The fees charged for logging or harvesting forest resources
have historically been low, and have inadequately reflected the true value
of the species or its replacement cost. The project addresses these issues
as part of its input on forest policies.
3.        As of 1981, the total established staff of the 19 SFDs was 9,478
with a fill ratio of about 70%, or about 400 staff per state, of which
about 4Z or 16 per state were in the technical/professional grades (GL8 and
above). In the last three years, the austerity crises facing the states
have forced layoffs within the forestry services. The northern states are
typically understaffed in higher managerial positions; the middle and
southern states lack staff with practical orientation and experience. The
budget crisis has also forced the northern states to curtail their



-32-
Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 3
shelterbelt programs and the middle and southern states, their plantation
programs.
4.        Institutional responsibility for forestry training is shared by
the Federal University system (college level), the Forestry Research
Institute of Nigeria (FRIN-technical training), and FDF (in-service
training). At college level, the University of lbadan has a well
recognized Forestry Department which dates to the 1960s, comprising 32
professionals. An estimated 50 students graduate annually, about the
number which can meaningfully be absorbed by the State and Federal forestry
services. FRIN operates technical training schools at lbadan, Jos and
Sapoba where two year courses are given for silvicultural assistants and
six month courses for forest guards. These schools operate competently and
several hundred .tudents graduate annually. Finally, FDF has responsibili-
ty for the School of Wildlife Management in New Bussa, the Sawmill Training
School in Benin City, and the in-service training centers at Oluwa and
Kano. The in-service training centers are recent additions to Nigeria's
forestry training system. The First Forestry Project assisted the con-
struction of the Oluwa School which has just begun to offer techni-
cal/vocational courses for forestry staff. The proposed project would
continue providing assistance to Oluwa and would help improve the opera-
tions of the Kano School.
5.        FRIN is responsible for Nigeria's forestry research.  Located in
Ibadan, it was established in 1954 under FMAWRRD where it remained until
1977 when it was transferred along with other federal research activities
to the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology.  This arrange.-nt has
hampered coordination of activities, although this problem pales in compar-
ison to what has happened to FRIN during the recent period of budget
austerity. FRIN like other research organizations has been pared to the
bone, with budgets inadequate to pay existing staff let alone car-y out
research projects. FRIN operates several sub-stations, including the
Shelterbelt Research Station in Kano and the Savanna Forest Research
Station in Samaru.  The proposed project would provide funds for :,udies in
arid zone afforestation activities which would be coordinated with the
research staff at the Kano sub-station.
6.        Performance.  Most of the institutions in the sector have
performed poorly in recent years. FDF has yet to develop and promulgate a
national forestry policy which sets out clearly the nation's objectives for
its forest resources and its plans for achieving them. Part of the reason
is the resistance from the states and LGAs who, in times of financial
duress, have frequently preferred to exploit existing resources rather than
conserve in the nation's long-term interest. FMG has also been slow to
realize the need for such a policy. However, the increasing problems of
fuelwood shortages in the north and the visible impact this has had on the
environment has created the situation where FMG is now ready to develop and
promulgate a national policy. The states as well are more receptive to the
idea both because their resources are dwindling and they must depend on FMG
for resources to invest in forestry projects.



- 33 -
Annex 2-2
Page 3 of 3
7.        Funding has also constrained performance of the institutions in
the sector. At the federal level, FDF received only 2.4Z of the federal
agricultural investment budget during 1981-84, compared to 3Z expected,
forcing it to substantially reduce its Fourth Plan (1981-85) investment
program. FRIN's funding situation was even worse and it has been unable to
carry out any major research in the last few years. At the state level,
funding shortages were also severe. Most state forestry investments were
suspended and many reduced their forestry staff. Funds were not available
to manage existing plantations.
-APAB
September 1986



- 34 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 12
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
AFFORESTATION PROGRAM (AP)
1.        Overview. The project's afforestation program (AP) is designed
to meet urgent needs to stabilize soils in the middle and northern regions
of Nigeria. Areas of geographic concentration for AP are those which: (i)
have already suffered environmental degration; (ii) are in areas of high
population pressure and (iii) which have good prospects for continued
farming as long as soil fertility is sustained. The project's AP area
stretches from the border with the Niger Republic in the North to the
southern end of the Jos Plateau in the Plateau State and has for purpose of
simplicity been divided into three zones. In general the area has a harsh
climate with long dry seasons and periodic droughts. Demand for fuelvood
and building materials, changing agricultural practices and overgrazing are
responsible for the profound negative environmental impact in the area,
particularly in the carrying capacity of the soils.
2.        Organization of Annex.  This annex provides:  (i) an cverview of
AP components; (ii) the reasoDs for envircnmental degradation in the area;
(iii) the experi-ence of past efforts to ozi:est the decline; (iv) the
strategies for AP; (v) the detailed components of AP. A further discussion
of AP is in Annexes 3-6 and 3-15 and Working Papers 2 and 5.
3.        Afforestation Program Components.  The AP involves separate, but
complementary, programs of shelterbelts in the northern drier zones and
farm forestry throughout. The shelterbelt program is confined to the areas
north of 12°N latitude. This is Nigeria's ar'd zone, which covers the
northern half of Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Kano and Sokoto States. This area
essentially represents the front line in the fight against desertification
and is referred to as Zone 1. The farm forestry programs are statewide
programs to be implemented by ADP extension staff. In Zone 1, farm
forestry would be closely associated with the shelterbelt program. Zone 2,
the areas in the southern part of the five northern states would benefit
solely from farm forestry programs. These areas range from 8°N to 12°N
with rainfall averages of 1,000 mm to 1,500 mm/year. The Jos Plateau
(Zone 3), which is also seriously eroded from overcutting and mining, would
have its own uniquely designed farm forestry program. This area is at 10°N
latitude but with slightly higher rainfall (1,200 mm to 2,000 mm) because
of its higher elevation.
4.        Demand for Wood.  Consumption of wood in the Zones 1 and 2
currently estimated to be 15 million m3 per year, of which about 85Z is for
fuel and 15Z for building materials and fences. This compares with a mean
mmual increment (MAI) from the natural growth of the forest reserves of
only 3.6 million m3, plus perhaps another 4 to 7 million ms from trees on



- 35 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 12
farm and fallowland. Thus there is a net deficit of some 5 to 8
million m9. 1/ Wood production from forestry plantations is small in
comparison with these figures, about 0.1 million ms/year.  The rate of
consumption is increasing (with population growth) while the MAI is
declining. Excluding forest reserves, the standing volume of tree stocks
is less than 5-10 years of the current annual rate of consumption in the
arid zone. The consequences of this have been fourfold:
a.   A marked decline in farm tree stocks in the arid zone.
Although good data are lacking, it is variously reported
that the number of farm trees has declined from around 15-20
per hectare in the early 1950s to around 3 per hectare.
b.   A threatening decline in soil fertility.  This has probably
occurred already in many areas, though scientific
measurements are lacking. 2/ There are broadly four effects
with the possibility of a fifth setting in: gulley erosion;
the loss of topsoil to winds; greater surface evaporation
and reduced soil moisture content as surface wind velocities
increase; reduced recycling of soil nutrients; and the
possibility that further nutrients (dung and crop residues)
will be consumed as fuel if fuelwood becomes scarce.
c.  The harvesting of tree stocks without replenishment in the
southern regions of the northern states for wood sales to
the arid zone. Firewood is transported extensively over
distances of 200-400 km, and is a profitable activity for
subsistence farmers and traders further south. While this
is offering the arid zone some respite from (a) and (b), it
means that the ecological damage is gradually being exported
further south.
d.   Serious encroachment on and degradation of the forest and
game reserves, including the extensive reserves at Yankari
(in Southern Bauchi).
5.        Agriculture.  The predominant form of agriculture is intensive
arable cropping (mainly millet and sorghum) during the short rainy season.
Because of increasing populations, fallow periods are becoming shorter or
non-existent, leaving the soil continuously exposed and subject to erosion.
Farmers frequently try to grow crops on areas where the soil depth has been
reduced to only a few decimeters. Contour cultivation is seldom seen on
sloping areas. While cultivation is still mainly by hand, there is an
1/   Supply and demand is discussed further in Annex 2-1.
2/  Such data would be gathered for the preparation of the long-term plan.
See Annex 3-5.



- 36 _
Annex 3-1
Page 3 of 12
increase in the use of draught cattle and is some cases tractors. As well
as decreasing the area under forest, this has caused a reduction in the
number of farm trees which some farmers consider an impediment to
mechanized operations. However, the value of certain farm trees for fruit
and fodder is recognizrd and in many cases these are left, even where
cultivation is mechanized (see W.P. 2, para 1.05). Farm planting of trees
has been very limited despite government efforts to encourage it over the
last decade. Notable exceptions are fruit trees (cashew, mIango and guava),
which can be grown in areas with higher water tables, and windbreak hedges
of Euphorbia spp.
6.        Livestock.  Livestock densities in the northern states are the
highest in Nigeria. Many animals are owned by nomadic Fulani herdsmen,
although there are considerable locally owned populations of sheep and
goats in villages. Actual numbers of livestock are difficult to estimate
and vary considerably with the seasonal movement of Fulani herds. In
Sokoto State, where estimates have been based on ntmbers brought in for
vaccination, the following populations are recorded: goats 7 million, sheep
4 million, cattle 3.6 million, and others (camels, donkeys and horses) o.5
million. Livestock browsing is a major factor in contributing to the loss
of tree cover. Natural regeneration in forest reserves has become almost
uon-existent and older trees are dying as a result of increased lopping for
fodder. Since eradication of the tsetse fly, cattle numbers in the region
have increased dramatically. Unless well-protected, no trees planted
either on farmland or in plantations and shelterbelts can survive browsing.
Even Epecies such as neem (Azdirachta indica) which were previously
consitered to be unpalatable, and which could be successfully established
in p_antations without fencing 10 years ago, are now eaten by goats and
camels. There is no doubt that in the long term restoration of a
sufficient vegetative cover will require a reduction in livestock numbers,
greater control of their movement and efforts to produce alternative
sources of fodder. The Bank-assisted Second Livestock Project would
include measures that address the problem, such as providing for new
grazing reserves on which pastoralists would establish 4 ha leguminous
fodder plots.
Previous Policies in the Arid Zone
7.        Forestry Policy. The present forest policy in all AP states is
based on the Forestry Law of Northern Nigeria enacted in 1938. The law
recognizes the need for protection and management of the area's forest
resources to safeguard the climatic and water regimes upon which
agricultural and pastoral productivity depend. While acknowledging the
priority that food production has over forestry, the law states the need to
create, protect and manage forest estate areas as well as for the
protection of forest vegetation on unreserved lands. The states' forest
services have the responsibility for creating and managing the forest
reserves in such a manner that the maximum benefit to the national economy
is derived, consistent with the principles of sustained yield.



-37-
Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 1 2
8.        Reserve land originally included State forest reserves, native
authority forest reserves and communal forest areas. Since local
government reform, native authority forest reserves have been included in
the Government forest estate and the ownership of all reserves have been
vested in local governments. The tasks of management of the Government
forest estate however still remain with the states' forest services. While
the states have the responsibility for protection and management, the
harvesting and collection of revenues is administered by the local
governments. This division of responsibility has made management difficult
and, because of the importance of royalty revenues to local governments,
cutting allowed is frequently in excess of desirable levels.
9.        In addition to collecting revenues from harvesting in forest
reserves, the local governments also have responsibility for the collection
of tariffs from the cutting of economic trees on non-forest land. These
fees vary by species, each of which has a minimum allowed girth. Certain
economic farm trees were protected completely prior to 1955, but a change
in the law permitted felling mature trees with a girth of greater than 6
feet, with the intention of promoting regeneration. Regeneration or
replanting has not occurred and in general local governments do not have
the capacity either to police the cutting of trees outside forest estates
or to collect the tariffs.
10.       The devolution of authority to local governments has undoubtedly
been detrimental to both the management of reserve areas and the
conservation of trees on non-forest land. However, given the present staff
limitations of the forest services in relation to the size of the reserve
areas and the pressures on them, it is doubtful whether a reassignment of
responsibility at this stage could do much to rescue the situation.
11.       Plantations and Shelterbelts.  Overall the state forestry
services have been able to undertake modest investments in plantations and
shelterbelts, amounting to about 23 thousand hectares by 1985, of which 21
thousand were in Sokoto and Kano. Of these plantings, about 1,700 km of
shelterbelts were established, mainly in Sokoto and Kano, protecting
perhaps 20,000 hectares of arable land. The success rate is about 70%.
There have been useful experiences particularly in Kano and Sokoto, which
will serve the states well. Nevertheless, the amount of planting done so
far is sufficient to supply less than 0.5% of the wood needs of the
northern states while the shelterbelts protect, at most, less than 0.3% of
the ecological threatened areas in the arid zone.
12.       The Government's Previouis Arid Zone Afforestation Project (AZAP)
In 1977, increasing concern about the scate of desertification in the north
prompted the Federal Government to form the National Committee on Arid Zone
Afforestation. Activities, which were carried out mainly by the State
Forestry Divisions, included the establishment and operation of nurseries;
establishment of plantations and shelterbelts; encouragement of commercial
and individual woodlots; and publicity. Seedlings and fencing material for
farm and village planting were provided free to the public.  During the
period 1979-84, about 55.5 million seedlings were raised in 60 --urseries



- 38 -
Annex 3-1
Page 5 of 12
across the five states. Of these, more than 93% were forest trees (mainly
neem and eucalyptus), the remainder being fruit trees. About 4,100 ha of
shelterbelts and plantations were established using 5.5 million seedlings,
with the balance of 50 mill4.on being distributed for farm and community
planting. A center for voLational training in arid zone forestry was
established in Kano with the first intake of trainees in 1983.
13.       Because of funding shortfalls, the Federal Government terminated
the project at the end of 1984 and transferred the nurseries to the River
Basin Rural Development Authorities in each state. So far only the
Authorities in Bauchi and Borno have taken ove, the nurseries and these
still have not developed a definitive afforestation plan.
14.       Lessons of the Government's Previous Project.  The main lessons
relate to (i) farm forestry, (ii) shelterbelts, and (iii) general issues of
funding, administrative capacity, organization and forestry law.
15.       Ci) Farm Forestry.  The farm forestry program did not succeed in
its objectives and the bulk of the seedlings distributed to farmers were
vasted.  The free seedlings were sometimes discarded and the potting soil
used for fertilizer. Given the drought, many withered and others were dead
on arrival owing to the difficulties of distribution. Most were not
protected from livestock or otherwise maintained after planting and, in
some cases, the choice of seedlings was wrong. The program also aimed at
state-wide distribution, which compounded seedling delivery problems, made
it difficult for the nurseries to determine farmer's needs, and probably
undermined the program's credibility with the farmers.
16.       Nevertheless, there were some successes, and though the risks
remain significant, conditions are also now more favorable for the
development of farm forestry. First, village plantings for shade and fruit
were visibly successful even in the most arid regions, and were respected
and protected by the communities. Indeed, the fruit trees (which only
accounted for 10% of all seedlings produced under the project) were popular
on farms, and commanded a good price (about NO.5-1.0) at some nurseries.
Second, the awareness of communities of the ecological problem is much
greater now, and local community and religious leaders are beginning to
involve themselves in the task of encouraging farm and community plantings.
Third, economic incentives in Nigeria are no longer seriously biased
against food crop production and investment in arable land. Fourth, the
program was seriously handicapped by not using the agricultural extension
services to encourage the ideas of farm forestry and provide supporting
advice to farmers and feedback to the nurseries and supporting research and
monitoring activities were lacking. Fifth, and most significant, there is
much evidence, albeit not well documented, that traditional tenurial and
pastoral activities are gradually changing under the influence of economic,
social and demographic changes in the region. As the Second Livestock
Project notes, about 30% of the Fulani herdsmen had settled permanently by
1979, a further 50% practiced limited seasonal migration, and only 20% were
noxadic. Settlement is accompanied by significant reductior- of average
herd sizes, from 80-100 head for the nomad, to 30-70 for sem-settled,



- 39 -
Annex 3-1
Page 6 of 12
seasonal pastorialists to 20-30 for fully settled. There is also an active
ulirket in land sales and rentals. 3/ Hence, influences of economic
incentives, demographic cuange, changes in farming systems, and the
technical, institutional and infrastructural support for agriculture (under
the AMPs), livestock and farm forestry, have better prospects than before
of improving land management practices in the region.
17.       (ii) Shelterbelts.  Shelterbelts have been established in
Northern Nigeria since the early 1960s and the techniques are well known.
Their principal function is protecting and rehabilitating the land. Their
vood products, though significant and important, are essentially
by-products of the program which increase their economic justification.
18.       Shelterbelt plantings so far have provided important experience
and have also demonstrated that, even in the rost arid areas of Nigeria,
shelterbelts can be successfully established. However, failures have
occurred (about 20-30% failed in Kano and Sokoto, t1-ough the percentages
were much higher in other states). The main reason was that, given the
paucity of funds allocated to the program, planting took precedence over
research into and testing of soils (for nutrients, pans and water tables)
prior to site selection. Also, the earlier shelterbelts, though
established in ecologically threatened areas, were not always established
in areas that were, simultaneously, economically the most important.
Hence, under the project, a much greater emphasis will be placed on
research, testing and site selection.
19.       (iii) Funding, administrative capacity, organization and forestry
law. These are all complex subjects, but their complexity must not be
allowed to obscure the fundamental and simple point that no institution can
be expected to execute its responsibilities, let alone carry out important
investment and maintenance programs, if it is tardily funded and
underfunded. This has been the situation in Northern Nigeria for many
years. Arid zone afforestation is now given a high priority by State and
Federal Government.
20.       Funding aside, it is clear that the administration of forestry
policy in the arid zone is fraught with difficulties. The confusion of
responsibilities between State Governments and Local Authorities over such
issues as licences, the collection of stumpage fees and the maintenance of
reserves is, among other things, undermining the revenue base. Indeed, to
effect reforms in licencing policies and stumpage fees, it will be
necessary, first, to redefine both forestry policy itself and how it is to
be administered.
3/   See W.P. 5 for a further discussion of land values.



- 40
Annex 3-1
Page 7 of 12
Strategy of the Project
21.       General Principles Behind the Planting Programs.  Given the rate
and extent at which deforestation is taking place, the most promising and
financially plausible approach to afforestation is a combined program of
farm forestry and shelterbelts.  As noted above, the MAU from all the state
plantation and shelterbelt projects in the northern states amounts to less
than 1% of an increasing volume of consumption. For the public sector to
shoulder the task of afforestation itself would require roughly a
twenty-fold increase in state forestry investment and maintenance
activities. Hence it is necessary to involve the farmers in the
afforestation programs themselves. This has two advantages. First,
farmers greatly outnumber foresters so that their part-time involvement as
an off-farm activity offers prospects of a significant increase in planting
rates. Second, and related to this, the approach greatly reduces the
public expenditure requirements since the costs of tree planting,
protection and maintenance are borne by the farm families themselves.
22.       Since the public financial costs of farm forestry, assuming a 40%
seedling survival rate, are less than one fifth of those of shelterbelts
and the economic returns are higher, the question arises whether it would
not be better to concentrate exclusively on farm forestry. The answer is
that risk-return considerations favor shelterbelt establishment in the more
immediately threatened areas. In addition, shelterbelts are likely to have
an important demonstration effect. Shelterbelts are thus seen as an
important component of arid zone afforestation in the short term because
their establishment can be directly controlled by the states and the fact
that their beneficial effects can be readily demonstrated. In this way,
they may also act an an impetus to private farm tree planting.
23.       The Size of the Project and Afforestation in the Long-Term.  The
size of the project was determined by three factors: the public revenue
constraint; risk; and the need to lay a solid foundation, in terms of
forestry policy, institutional development, research and field experience
for the implementation of a long-term plan. With respect to the public
revenue constraint, the state and federal budgetary contributions agreed
upon are considered realistic and achievable. As discussed above, it is
also the public revenue constraint which makes the farm forestry program,
with its relatively low demands on the public revenue per hectare of
farmland protected, an indispensible element of any afforestation strategy
in the Arid Zone. In spite of its risks, there is no other financially
feasible alternative in sight than to pursue the farm forestry approach in
conjunction with other programs such as shelterbelts and forestry
management.



- 41 -
Annex 3-1
Page 8 of 12
24.       The farm forestry component would cover about 250,000 farm
families which represents about 10 of the farm families in the project's
three zones. 4/ The shelterbelts would protect O.;J3 million hectares in
zone 1. For the long term it will be necessary to undertake research to
prepare the ground for the implementation of a larger effort.
Realistically, the investment program is likely to extend over a 30-50 year
period, assuming the rate of invec'ment can be scaled up by a factor of two
or three over the level proposed under the present project. At the same
time, substantive experience has been gained from the 1,700 km of
shelterbelts planted so far and from the fatm forestry program introduced
in the Government's previous AZAP program; hence it is considered that a
significant start can be made by planting another 1,700 km of shelterbelts
and a farm forestry program which builds on previous experience.
25.       Within each state, the scale and scope of project activities have
been tailored towards its needs and capabilities. Kano, which has a large
area in the arid zone, the highest population density and well-proven
capability in arid zone afforestation, has the largest share of the
program. Sokoto and Borno have greater needs for land protection but, both
requiring extra institutional support, have been given relatively smaller
physical targets but more technical assistance. Bauchi, with only a small
area in the arid zone and Kaduna, which already has an EEC supported arid
zone afforestation project, each have rather modest programs. Working
Paper 2 provides a detailed description of the scale and type of project
activities within each state.
Specific Aspects of the Project Strategy
26.       Organization.  The main activities under the project are farm
forestry development and shelterbelt establishment together with the
necessary nursery upgrading and seedling production. These will b.;
supported by training programs to strengthen the states' forest services
and the preparation of a long-term plan. The agency responsible for
implementation in each state will be the Division of Forestry under the
umbrella of an Afforestation Project Coordination Unit (APCU) based in
Kano. There will be close coordination with the Agriculture Development
Projects (or, in the case of Borno, the State Agricultural Extension
Service) which are to provide the necessary extension. Inter-ministerial
committees at the State level service will be established to discuss
project progress and issues of policy. Working P;?er 2 provides a more
detailed statement of project organization within each State and of the
Coordinating Unit.
4/   This includes only families reached by the extension service.  This
estimate excludes about 30Z of the seedlings which would be made
available on demand from communities and other farmers.



-42 -
Annex 3-1
Page 9 of 12
27.       Nurseries.  During the period of the Arid Zone Afforestation
Project, 68 nurseries were established throughout the 5 states. In
addition, the State Governments have independently operated about 145
nurseries, mostly within the arid zone, and there-are several small ADP
nurseries in Kano and Kaduna States. The total seedling production if all
nurseries were operating at full capacity is likely to be more than 30
million seedlings annually - well in excess of what can be absorbed in a
rural afforestation program given the States' present agriculture and
forestry extension capabilities. There is thus little need to expand
nursery capacity and the immediate aims must be to improve the efficiency
of seedling production and distribution.
28.       Selected nurseries will be improved through replacement of worn
equipment and ensuring a reliable water supply, as well as the provision of
new vehicles for seedling distribution. Provision is made for some new
uurseries to be est2blished to reduce transport costs in distribution and
to relocate close to water. A maximum of eight new (or relocated)
nurseries will be established and 27 existing state forestry nurseries will
be upgraded. 5/ Each nursery will have a capacity of about 250,000
seedlings per year. One nursery in each zone will function as a central
nursery and will have basic mechanical workshop facilities.
29.       Farm Forestry.  Farm forestry include village and school
planting, and small private woodlots, although the primary emphasis will be
addressed at on-farm planting. In terms of both environmental impact and
wood production, on-farm planting offers the greatest potential benefits.
Approaches to farmers will be used. First, selected farmers close to
shelterbelt locations (zone 1) will be encouraged to participate in an
intensive demonstration/model approach in which they would be given close
attention from both forestry and ADP extension officers. Second, about IOZ
of the farm families in zones 1, 2 and 3 would be targets for the general
ADP/Forestry Division extension program, receiving the standard extension
media messages as well as regular visits from ADP field overseers.
Thirdly, extra seedlings would also be raised for distribution by SFD's so
that the normal demand from the public is met.
30.       None of the states have so far levied charges for non-fruit tree
seedlings, and fruit seedlings provided by the forest services have
generally been free. 6/ The ADPs in Kano and Kaduna already charge for
fruit trees, but the project would not require specific changes in cost
5/   In fact the establishment of new nurseries will essentially involve
relocating existing ones which, because of distance to priority
shelterbelt locations or unreliable water supplies, cannot operate
efficiently.
6/   Some states have experimented with charges for fruit trefms (mangos,
cashews) which have been popular.



- 43 -
Annex 3-1
Page 10 of 12
recovery fees pending a broader study of the issue. Fertilizer and fencing
would be sold and small supplies would be made available for sale at the
ADP retail outlets for farmers who wished to purchase them.
31.       Extension Methods. Extension work will comprise two major
components: (i) widespread media publicity through a variety of channels;
and (ii) the "grassroot" level contacts through the agricultural extension
services and at the nurseries. Publicity material for dissemination across
the five arid zone states will be prepared by the Training and Extension
Division of the Coordinating Unit in Kano. This will include written and
illustrated material in Hausa and other local languages, radio programs,
and video films for display with publicity vans. Additional moral and
public support in promoting tree planting and protection would be sought
from religious and traditional leaders. Farmer level contact will be done
through the agricultural extension services of the ADPs. The extension
message will comprise:
(i) the values of different types of trees in terms of what they
produce and what can be gained in consumable products and
financial returns;
(ii) the value of trees in terms of their protective function and
their enhancement of agricultural productivity;
(iii) how trees can be included in existing agricultural systems;
(iv) how to get seedlings, how to plant them and how to maintain and
protect them; and
(v) the importance of leaving standing trees when clearing land for
agriculture.
Since the project will utilize the existing extension services in the zone,
its main activity will be the training and technical support of the
extension workers.
32.       Shelterbelts.  Shelterbelts have been established in Northern
Nigeria since the early 1960s and the techniques are well known. Their
principal function is protecting and rehabilitating land. While such areas
are generally close to the northern fringes of the country, this is not
universally so. Belts will be situated so as to protect well-defined areas
with the intention that the land between them will be restored to give
higher yields. Areas where shelterbelt establishment is likely to be
difficult - such as active sand dunes or those where irrigation would be
required after planting - will be avoided, at least for the present. In
all situations, there is to be a combined farm-forestry/shelterbelt
approach, with strong encouragement for farmers whose land falls between
the belt to plant field trees.
33.       All states compensate farmers for land taken out of production.



- 44 -
Annex 3-1
Page 11 of 12
This compensation is based on the improvements farmers have made to the
land plus trees that exist on the land. The current rate of compensation
in the northern states is N650 per hectare.
34.       Preparation of the Long-Term Plan.  The project will only support
a small portion of the program necessary to rehabilitate critical areas of
the arid zone. As noted earlier, the magnitude of the problem is such that
it is estimated at least 50 years work will be needed to achieve adequate
control of desertification. There are at present no long-term plans for
defining how this will be done and, moreover, there is insufficient
information on which to base them. The compilation of a sufficient data
base on the causes of desertification, short- and long-term social and
environmental trends, and the impact of various remedial mEasures is
necessary. Such information would provide a picture of what is happening
in the arid zone and indications of what the most profitable steps to solve
the problems would be.
35.       Compilation of existing data and gathering new data would start
in project year 1 and would be substantially completed by project year 3.
36.       Training Component.  The project emphasizes the importance of
changing the outlook - and the practices - not only of the farming
community, but also those of government services in agriculture, livestock,
extension and forestry. In the past, trees and tree products were
available from natural sources to most rural people in northern Nigeria.
They are dwindling as human and livestock populations rise. Nomadic
livestock have traditionally grazed and fertilized farmers' land and
threatened the existence of small trees in a climate in which these already
have severe establishment difficulties. Government advisory services have
offered advice on growing crops, improving livestock production, and
achieving better health and nutrition, but have not given the same emphasis
to growing trees. There is increasing pressure on forest reserves and
recently local governments have given rights to influencial people to cut
them down.
37.       Rural families need to change their attitudes towards their role
in the planting and protection of trees, while government staff in state
forestry departments (SFDs) and local governments need to change their
roles from solely the planting, protection and management of trees in
government plantation and shelterbelts to teaching farmers and communities
to do so for trees for which they have ownership. Agricultural extension
staff too, who have been taught to think of production from arable land in
terms of crops, need to understand the place and the potential of trees in
association with those crops.
38.       A large scale farm forestry program would involve SFDs in the
need to (a) communicate with large rural populations; (b) educate farmers
and communities in the value of planting and protecting of trees; (c)
interact closely with other rural technical agencies; and (d) develop
expertise in fodder, fuelwood and fruit tree species with which most of
their staff have had little experience. Moreover, even with efficient



- 45 -
Annex 3-1
Page 12 of 12
production, distribution and planting of tree seedlings, their subsequent
survival is threatened by livestock over which the individual owners of the
trees have little control. A major education program directed at the
owners of the livestock as well as the landholders is therefore esential to
the successful survivial of the trees. This also calls for a program of
action for which SFDs are ill-equipped. A major or' itation and training
program and review of job responsibilities will be   4uired to prepare SFD
and LG forestry staff for new responsibilities and working relationships.
High recurrent costs would prohibit SFDs from developing independent field
extension services and they will need to rely heavily on the field
extension workers of ADPa to convey technical advice on tree growing to
farmers. This will reqtire the training of agricultural extension staff to
orient them to this new role. SFDs will be able to draw on well developed
staff training capability in ADPs, and existing capability in the design
and use of mass media in ADPs and other agencies in the northern states.
39.       The training component will support Government's objective of
developing the training capability, systems, and procedures, throughout
SFDs, and supply the necessary physical resources, to provide, on a
continuing basis, the skills needed by SFD, ADP, and LG staff at all levels
for implementation of the forestry project. The provision of a Senior
Forestry Extension and Trainirg Specialist in APCU would establish a focal
point for training in arid zone forestry. His role will be to assist SFD
managers in the arid states to develop effective training procedures and
programs to improve staff performance; to develop training capability at
the Kano Center and among SFD Extension and Training Officers; to be in
touch with sources of forestry training expertise in FDF, FRIN, and the
universities, and with expertise in training technology in ADPs, Extension
Research Liaison Services of the Universities, ARMTI, Administrative and
Technical Training Centers, and other sources through the country.
Specific training objectives and activities include:
(a) Mass education program;
(b)  Training of extension ;ersonnel;
(c) Community development (pilot program);
(d) Training of forestry staff in nursery and shelterbelt techniques;
(e) Background Forestry Training for SFD and LG staff; and
(f) Institutional development.
WAPAB
September 1986



Annex 3-2
-46  -                             'age-= 5t  11
NIGERIA
SECOiD FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Management Program (FMP)
1.       FMP objectives are to increase the supply of industrial timber in
the most cost-effective manner. The Bank's analysis indicated that the
most cost effective way to achieve this objective Was to improve the
management of high-priority existing plantations which either had been
neglected by the states in the past, or ran the risk of being neglected in
the future, given the constraints on local capital and recurrent
expenditures. Without investment in thinning programs, fire maintenance,
weeding, and efforts to market intermediate plantation products, the nation
faced the real prospect of achieving sub-optimal returns to previous
investments.
2.        The Bank also determined that it would be economically attractive
to associate a limited amount of new planting with the plantation
management program as the shared overheads along with special
characteristics of the sites selected would enable the new plantations to
have attractive economic returuis.
3.        FMP would cover plantations in four states:  Benue, Kaduna, Ogun
and Ondo. Each state would involve management of existing plantations; new
plantations would be restricted to Benue and Kaduna. The program in each
state is described in detail in Working Paper 3 and is summarized below.
Mi) Benue State
4.        The project area is situated about longitude 7°E and latitude
7°30'N in the western part of Benue State. The forest reserves in which
the project will operate are within the local governrent areas of Ankpa,
Dekina and Idah. Project activities will cover plantations in the
following forest reserves:
Name of forest reserve         LGA                 Plantation area
ha
Western Okura                  Dekina                  534
Ojofo                          Dekina                   63
Acharane                       Ankpa                   534
Ibaji Ojoko                    Idah                    904
Total                                             2,035
5.        The project area lies within the derived savannah zone.  The
forest reserves which are in the project area have all been logged but they
have still considerable forest areas with valuable timber species. The
high forest areas of these reserves are characterized by species such as
Clorophora exelsa, Kbaya senegalensis, Triplochiton scleroxylon, Afzelia



_ 47 _                              Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 11
africana, Antiaris africana. With increasing human influence (farming) the
forest becomes dominated by oil palm Elaeis guineensis and siam weed,
Eupatorium.
6.        The main aim of the project is to manage about 2,035 ha of
plantations already established in the forest reserves of Acharane, Western
Okura, Ajofo and Ibaji-Ojoko. Management would involve an active thinring
program with utilization and marketing of the thinning produce. In
addition a moderate planting program of 700 ha would be carried out during
the project period. The project would administratively come directly under
the Chief Conservator of Forest of Benue State and the state government
would second the necessary forestry personnel to the project. Because
utilization and marketing would be the major activity of the project, its
execution would be carried out in close conjunction with the New Nigerian
Timber Company (NNTC) situated centraily in Okura-Lafia close to the
plantation ares in Western Okura and Acharane Forest Reserves. The NNTC
sawmill is functioning as a company while about 95% of its share capital is
held by state and local governments (Dekina, Ankpa and Idah). In addition
to the main savmill there is a wood workshop and a treatment plant. The
project would share workshop and possibly office facilities with the
sawmill. A sen:'or staff house and store facility would be built at
Okura-Lafia near to the sawmill site.
7.        The Project Manager would be internationally recruited.  He would
be an experienced forester or engineer with experience in forest
management, wood processing and marketing. He would be assisted by a
graduate forester with proven experience in forest management and
administration. The assistant project manager's post would be advertised
on a national basis. An experienced project engineer would be recruited
nationally after advertisement. He would be responsible for running of
workshop, for road construction and maintenance as well as for supervision
of mechanized forestry operations. He would work closely with the sawmill
personnel and some overlapping of functions with that of the sawmill
operation can be expected to take place. A forest superintendent,
recruited nationally, would be in charge of marketing and utilization. A
forest superintendent would be in charge of plantation thinnings and
another for plantation establishment and maintenance. The two last
mentioned positions are expected to be filled by state government staff. A
plantation supervisor (senior silvicultural assistant or forest
superintendent) would be in charge of daily operations in each of the four
major plantations (Acharane, Acharu, Alade, Oforachi).
8.        Management of pre project plantations.  The project will manage
1,735 ha of gmelina and teak plantations established by the state and an
estimated 300 ha of gmelina planted by the federally sponsored pulpwood
project at Oforachi Plantation in Idah Division. Management will include
fire protection, the most necessary road maintenance and a thinning
program. Teak gron in the Benue area is expected to yield a mean annual
increment of 12.1 m per ha over a 45 year period. The already existing
teak plantations are of a good quality but are presently lacking fire
protection and thinning. A thinning program for the teak plantations has



- 48 -                                Annex 3-2
rage i or 11
been costed under the project. This would bring high quality poles on the
market and increase the potential value of plantations by increasing the
amount of sawlogs in the later thinnings and in the final clearfelling.
9.        During the first project year, 145 ha would be thinned; the
program would gradually increase to about 373 ha per year. During the
project period thinnings in the younger age classes (1-5, 6-10) will be
done with bousavs and axes while in the age classes 11-15 and 16-20
chainsaws will also be used. Thinning will be selective; however, a line
of trees will be felled with regular intervals (5 or 7 rows) to give easy
access for transportation of the felled wood products. Some extraction by
four wheeled tractors will be necessary in the older age classes but can be
kept at a minimum because of the proposed access lines which will allow
lorry or tractor with trailer to enter. Teak poles and fuelwood would be
sold from sales centers in Ankpa, Ayangba and Idah and possibly other
locations. Such sales are already being carried out by the forestry
division of the Ayangba Agricultural Development Project.
10.       New Plantations.  About 700 ha of new plantations would be
concentrated in the western Okura and Acharane forest reserves where
existing plantations in Acharu and Acharane would be expanded. Taungya
farmers have been operating in both the~se reserves and large areas have
been cleared and are available for planting. Because of this and the
relatively small scale of the program landclearing has been based on manual
methods. The existing nursery at Okura Lafia will be used. Seedlings can
be raised on land quite adjacent to the Okura Lafia river and hand watering
will be used considering the small production program and the short time
necessary to produce potted seedlings of teak. Teak seeds are obtainable
from older plantations in Idah Division and additional seeds could if
necessary be obtained from Nimbia in Kaduna State or from FRIN. Plantation
sites will be surveyed and demarcated the year prior to planting, and the
road and access track network laid out. Soil surveying is not necessary as
areas adjacent to previous plantations all are on good soils previously
carrying high forest.
11.       The major benefits of the project would be training of staff and
the beginning of a more systematic utilization of plantations than has
taken place in the past. Project benefits have been calculated based on
the incremental volumes deriving from the thinning program in Teak.
Incremental volumes from the thinning program has been calculated on the
basis of age classes. In addition, benefits from the yields of plantations
established by the project has been taken into account.
(ii) Kaduna State
12.       Kaduna State is located in the north central part of Nigeria
between latitudes 9°N and 13°N. It spans the northern Guinea Savanna and
Sudan Savanna climatic belts and has a wide variation of vegetation and
site conditions. In the central and southern parts of the state these are
favorable for productive forest plantations. Plantations have been
established in sa-veral locations mainly from Zaria southwards. The project



- 49 -                                Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 11
would support further activities in two of these areas - the Afaka and
Ribako Forest Reserves, close to Kaduna City and the Nimbia Forest Reserve
close to Jemwac in the extreme south of the State. Afaka is 20 km west of
Kaduna on the main highway to Lagos. It is at about 10'40'N latitude and
7P20'E ln;gitude. Ribako is 45 km east of Kaduna and at the same latitude.
It is also connected to the city by a good road. Nimbia Forest Reserve is
200 km south of Kaduna on the main highway to Joe via Kafanchan and 70 km
from Jos City. It is located at about 9'20'N and 8°30'E.
13.       Afaka and Ribako are in the- Northern Guinea Zone. Most of the
vegetation occurring naturally is Isoberlinia doka savanna woodland and
shrub savanna. The grass cover becomes increasingly more abundant from the
valley woodlands to the floodplain grasslands. The Isoberlinia trees with
their association of Monotes, Uapaca, Parinari, Afromosia, Launea, Swartzia
and Daniellia trees form a thin canopy over a shrub layer which includes
Gardenia, Terminalia and Pilostigma. The ground flora grasses include
Andropogon spp. The shrub savanna is often devoid of Isoberlinia which has
been eliminated by fire and the shrubs listed above, with additional
grasses such as Cteneum, Hyporrhenia and Trachypogon, dominate the site.
14.       Teak (Tectona grandis) and Gmelina arborea plantations were
started in Nimbia in 1957. By 1980, 1,613 ha of teak and 193 ha of Gmelina
had been established. While both species have shown excellent growth there
have only been sporadic attempts at management of the stands and generally
they are overstocked. Thinning that has been carried out has often been
too light and infrequent and there has been no defined schedule with target
stockings at different ages based on measured growth rates. Inadequate
records are maintained of the intensity of thinning in different stands and
of the volumes harvested. There has been no planting at Nimbia since 1980.
Elsewhere in Kaduna, plantations were started in the late 1960s. These
included Kabama and Guga Forest Reserves in the Zaria area and Ribako and
Afaka Forest Reserves close to Kaduna. The main species were Eucalyptus
camaldulensis and E.tereticornis with smaller areas of Pinus caribaea and
P.oocarpa. Up to 1981 the areas established at each location were as
follows:
Location
Species             Kabama    Guga       Afaka     Ribako
-  - -  - Area in ha
Eucalyptus           461       803        636       598
Pines                 -         -         208         29
15.       Establishment results and growth rates of Eucalyptus have
generally been good and many of the older areas have been harvested with
heavy thinnings between 1979 and 1983, mainly to supply fence posts for the
Arid Zone Afforestation Project. However, there appears to have been no
management of the subsequent coppice regeneration and in these stands many
stumps now carry 5 to 6 stems. Singling is needed if the residual stands
are to have value for products other than fuelvood and small poles. Ihere



-50  _                                 Annex 3-2
Page 5 of 11
has been no planting at Afaka or Ribako since 1982. Both sites have
nurseries with some machinery and equipment and seedlings are still
produced for distribution to the public at Afaka. The total area of Afaka
FR is about 14,700 ha of which it is estimated some 3,000 ha remain
suitable for productive forest plantations. About 1,500 ha are on the most
productive site classes according to the 1967 soil surveys. There is
probably a larger area suited for planting at Ribako and also at the Anara
Forest Reserve, between Kaduna City and Ribako. Together these reserves
have a total area of 37,190 ha and a similar range of site classes.
16.       The project would have two components:  (i) the plantation
program at Afaka would be reinstated and proceed to establish the remaining
plantable area within the forest reserve with the aim of producing mainly
poles and fuelvood for Kaduna and some sawnwood; and (ii) existing
plantations at Afaka, Ribako and Nimbia would be brought into well-defined
management regimes to improve their quality and hence the value of their
future production.  An inventory of all plantations in the state would be
carried out and improved management of plantations not directly affected by
the project would be encouraged.
17.       The new plantation component would establish 2,450 of Eucalyptus
and pine plantation over an 8-year period. It would upgrade the existing
nursery at Afaka and provide equipment necessary for roading, and
establishment, protection and maintenance of plantations. The existing
plantation component would support an inventory to determine stocking
levels, volumes and growth rates of 4,560 ha within the state. It would
introduce appropriate thinning regimes for 1,250 ha of Eucalyptus
plantations at Afaka and 1,260 ha of teak at Nimbia as well as providing
assistance with the marketing and utilization of the thinnings and
continued protection of the plantations. Boron fertilizer would be applied
to 1,200 ha of Eucalyptus plantations at Afaka and Ribako to prevent die
back and improve their yield and quality.
Project Organization and Management
18.       A project management unit would be attached to the Division of
Forestry. It would be headed by an internationally recruited project
manager who would have a Nigerian counterpart as assistant project manager.
The project manager should have had considerable experience in the
management of forestry projects under tropical conditions including
inventory, utilization and marketing as well as afforestation. A
utilization and marketing office reporting directly to the project manager
would be in charge of sales of wood products. There would be a small
administrative support staff headed by a chief accountant at Kaduna HQ and
three operational units: (i) Afaka/Ribako Forest Operations; (ii) Niabia
Operations; and (iii) Engineering, as well as a team to carry out the
plantation inventory.
19.       The Afaka and Ribako Field Operations Unit would have
responsibility for seedling production at the Afaka nursery, preparation of
plantation plans, manual operations, and forest protection. The Nimbia



-51 -                                     Mex  u-2
Operations Unit would prepare management plans and mark stands for
thinning. It would also directly supervise crews carrying out manual
thinning operations in young stands.
20.       The Engineering Unit would operate and maintain heavy equipment
at Afaka and Nimbia. Because of the importance of high quality maintenance
the unit would be headed by an internationally recruited project engineer.
There would be a field service section at each site plus a workshop at
Afaka. All sections would report to the Project Enginner but the field
service sections in each site would also be directed by the Superintendents
in charge of forest operation units, who would ensure that the quality of
site preparation, firebreaks and thinning was according to prescription.
21.       The planting at Afaka would establish the best sites of remaining
reserve area with pines and eucalyptus as set out in the following
schedule:
- Project Year -
Species             2      3      4       5      6      7    Total       z
Area Planted in ha
E. camaldulensis    40     70    100    100    100      80        490    20
E. tereticornis     40     70    100    100    100      80       490    20
E. cloeziana       100    175    250    250    250    200       1,225    50
P. caribaea         20      35     50     50     50     40        245    10
Total           200    350    500    500    500    400      2,450   100
This distribution of species is provisional and will depend on a closer
examination of their performances on different sites. If possible,
E.cloezina should be even more favored because of its demonstrated superior
performance on good sites.
Management of Pre-project Plantations
22.      Management of existing plantations would provide inputs for
improving the growth and value of the final output of existing plantations.
It would involve fertilization of the Afaka and Ribako Eucalyptus
plantations with boron to prevent die back, thinning of coppice regrowth in
barvested Eucalyptus plantations at Afaka and thinning of teak at Nimbia.
An inventory would be conducted of all industrial plantations in Kaduna
(4,560 ha) to determine the present stocking levels, and standing volumes
and to estimate the productivity of different sites in order to prepare
detailed management plans.
23.       An inventory of existing plantations would be started in the
first project year. A series of bounded plots would be measured covering
aU species and age classes. The details of the sampling plan would be
worked out by the project manager and measurements would be made by a crew
of 9 technicians under the leadership of a mensuration officer. Assuming a



Annex 3-2
-52-                                  Page 7 of 11
0.5Z sampling intensity and 0.04-he sample plots, about 600 plots would
need to be measured, involving 9 months of field work. This should be
completed by the middle of project year 2. Compilation and analysis of the
results would proceed simultaneously with the measurements and it would be
expected that the final results would be available to project management by
the end of PY2.
24.       Management of the eucalyptus plantations at Afaka and Ribako will
involve thinning coppice regeneration and application of boron fertilizer
to prevent tip die back. The need for the operations and the extent of
each type would have to be confirmed by the proposed plantation inventory.
Provisionally, there are two categories:
(i) Stands established earlier than 1976: most of these have
been heavily _± ! ;'d and have coppice regeneration up to 7
years old; and
(ii) Stands established 1976-81: these will all have reached 12
years by the end of the project period and stems should have
sufficient dimensions for clearcutting.
25.       Management of teak at Nimbia will involve the introduction of
thinning schedules into currently overstocked stands with the aim of
reducing stockings to desired levels and improve the out-turn of higher
value sawlogs and transmission poles. As the stands cannot be thinned
immediately to the appropriate levels for their age classes, the schedule
set out below is recommended:
Current Age Class
6 - 10         11 - 15           16 - 20
Total Area (ha)                  555             835              200
Area to Treat (ha)               500             560              200
Desired Stocking (s/ha)        1,100             780              510
Approx. observed stocking
(s/ha)                      1,500            1,400            1,200
(iii) Ogun and Ondo States
26.       The project areas are the Omo Forest Reserve in Ogun State and
the Oluwa Forest Reserve in Ondo State. These reserves are situated about
latitude 7°N and longitude 4"30'E. The reserves have a common boundary in
the Oni River, flowing in North-South direction; the Omo Reserve is bounded
by the town of Ogbere in the West and the Oluwa Forest Reserve by the Oluwa
River in the East. The Benin-Lagos expressway cuts through the southern
part of both reserves. Both reserves are gazetted; Omo has an area of
139,100 ha and Oluwa 88,100 ha.
27.       The reserve is dominated by high forest tree species.  There are,
however, in the Oluwa reserve considerable areas with old cocoa farms
carved out as so called enclaves in the forest reserves and an area of



Annex 3-2
53                                Page 8 of 11
about 43,000 ha is covered by forest plantations in both reserves. The
natural forest has practically all been logged in the past; species
included Entandophragma cylendricum (sapelli), Khaya grandifoliolt
(mahogany), Afromosia  elata (afromosia), Triplochiton scler lon (obeche,
wava), Nauclea diderichii (opepe), Clorophora exelsa (iroko), Terminalia
superba (white afara, liMba), Terminalia ivorensis (idigbo).  Tree heights
range up to 40 m; climbers and lianas abound and grasses are generally
suppressed. When the forest canopy is opened, areas become invaded by the
siam weed, Eupatorium, which with increasing amount of cultivation gets
succeeded by grasses; such areas are vulnerable to fires and the ecological
conditions become more like that of the savannah because of the progressing
deterioration of soil conditions.
28.       Both states were administered under the south western region when
forestry planning began about 1915. Initially forest management in Nigeria
concentrated on establishment of forest reserves. Forest reserves in the
south were divided into blocks and concessionaries were allowed to log the
forest on a long term rotational pattern. Planting began in the mid 1960's
when relatively small areas were established annually by the two states.
29.       As from about 1976 a nationwide pulpwood project was initiated.
The purpose was to grow gmelina pulpwood for a projected future pulpwood
industry. This scheme was financed by the Federal Ministry of Industires
and administered by FDF. Implementation was carried out jointly by the FDF
and state government staff. By the end of 1979, 12,638 ha of gmelina
plantations had been established by the two states and the federally
sponsored pulpwood project. In addition to gmelina about 4,190 ha of teak
(Tectona grandis) were established between 1964 and 1983 (Omo 3,760 ha,
Oluwa 430 ha). Indigenous species were planted already as from 1918, these
include Terminalia spp, Khaya grandifoliola, Nauclea diderichii and
Triplochiton scleroxylon; pines were also planted in the Oluwa Forest
Reserve. These areas total 3,340 ha (1,240 ha in Omo and 2,100 ha in
Oluwa) but as all species mentioned are fire prone, most of the areas
planted with species other than gmelina and teak have suffered much fire
damage.
30.       The previously well controlled concess_on system was not kept up
well as from the 1970's. Previous long term concession arrangements were
replaced by shorter term felling rights; the control of farming
deteriorated and a considerable amount of illegal felling is reported to be
taking place at present. The two forest reserves are under control of the
forestry departments of the Ogun and Ondo State Governments which alto
collects forest revenues. Local governments are not involved as it is the
case in the northern states.
31.       The First Forestry Project (Ln. 1679-UNI) was to establish 22,600
ha of gmelina plantations. The plantations were meant to supply pulpwood
to the Iwopin Pulpmill which was already under construction when the first
forestry project was prepared. Plantations were meant to be kept in a 15
year rotation with one thinning at the age of seven; the clearfelling at
age 15 would produce a combination of pulpwood and sawlogs. At the time of



Annex 3-2
Page 9 of 11
-54 -
expected loan closing by end of June 1986 the project would have achieved
72Z of its total SAR planting target (22,600 ha) for Ogun and Ondo States
combined.
32.       The main aim of the proposed project is to continue protective
management of the gmelina plantations which were established during the
first projLct and before, as there is a significant probability that
without the project, the states would not have the resources to do so.
This would mainly mean upkeep of fire control systems and for this purpose
the system of roads and tracks in the plantations would be maintained.
During project implementation a study would be carried out of the gmelina
plantations to examine the optimum system of management under various
scenarios. The project would also maintain teak plantations and carry out
a thinning program in these for the purpose of improving potential sawlog
production. During project implementation emphasis would be on utilization
and marketing contrary to the first project in which plantation
establishment was the highest priority. In addition, the project would
advise the state governments on management of the Omo and Oluwa Forest
Reserves in general, with particular emphasis on attaining sustained yield
management in the part of the natural forest which is not expected to be
converted to plantations.
33.       Project managers are expected to be seconded from each state SFD.
A forest manAgement and utilization specialist would be recruited
internationally to assist each project unit. He would advise FDF and state
goverments concerning possible future pulpwood harvesting. He would work
on market promotion and monitor the thinning, and sales on each of the
state units. The project engineer for each state unit would be recruited
nationally. He would have a key function in the project being responsible
for the workshop and plant miiairtenance. He would also be responsible for
road and fireline maintenance and be involved in supervision of all
mechanized forestry operations. Two senior technical officers, responsible
for workshop, and for road maintenance would report to the project
engineer. A superintendent would be in charge of completing the small
civil work programs which have been costed under each of the units and for
maintenance of buildings. The Chief Accountant would handle all project
accounting and assist project managers in administrative matters whenever
required. A pJantation officer would be responsible for general plantation
control; he would keep records of farmers presently growing crops outside
of the enclaves. He would monitor any diseases and pests and be in charge
of fire control. He would be assisted by a number silvicultural assistants
who would each supervise a portion of the plantation (one silvicultural
assistant for each 2,000 ha of plantations. A forest utilization officer
would be in charge of the sales at each unit and a forestry supervisor
(forest officer or superintendent level) would supervise the thinning
operation. He would also be in charge of carrying out inventory work which
would be planned by the forest management and utilization adviser and the
project managers.
34.       The project in Omo forest reserve would maintain fire prevention
and fire control system in about 17,000 ha of Gmelina and 3,760 ha of teak;



Annex 3-2
_ S5             ~              Page 10 of 11
roads would be maintained and a thinning program would be carried out in
850 ha of teak plantations. In the Ondo State project maintenance would
cover the existing Gmelina (11,363 ha) and teak plantations (430 ha);
thinning would include all the teak plantations. Area surveys will be made
of the plantations. Inventory work will also be carried out on a sample
basis in the teak plantations and will form the basis for planning the
thinning program.
35.       The selective thinning in teak would bring high quality poles on
the market and increase the potential value of plantations by increasing
the amount of sawlogs in the later thinnings and in the final clearfelling.
There are no measurement data available on growth of teak in the project
area but plantations are generally of a good potential except that thinning
is lacking or inadequate. Growth is expected to be at least as high as in
Western Benue and the thinning and yield models for Western Benue have been
used. Thinning models have been prepared for age classes, 1-5, 6-10, 11-15
and 16-20. These models show incremental output of the proposed models as
compared to the no thinning alternative.
36.       In the Omo fore3t reserve there are 3,750 ha of teak plantations,
the thinning program to be carried out by the project would be based upon
the thinning plan made after surveys and inventory work has been carried
out. The project itself would carry out a thinning program in 850 ha.
Part of the remainting area could be thinned by contractors if sold on
stump to them. In the Oluwa forest reserve all the 430 ha of teak would be
thinned after a thinning plan has been carried out. Thinning of Gmelina
has not been costed under the project because of the uncertainty concerning
the pulpmill.
37.       In Southern Nigerian roundwood poles could be used for many
purposes where presently sawnwood is used. Teak poles and fuelwood would
be sold from demonstration sales centers. The location of these would have
to be determined by the project units during implementation. However, the
towns of Ore and Ondo would seem to be relevant in the case of the Ondo
project unit, while Ijibu-Ode should be considered in connection with sales
from Omo. Some of the output is expected to be sold directly at roadside
in the forest. Prospects for sales at stump to major contractors should
also be examined.
38.       Sales centers would carry fuelwood and poles cut into fixed
lengths (probably 3m, 4m, 6m and 8m). Large poles which can be used as
electric poles would also be sold, both treated and untreated. It is
important that the sales center be placed centrally near markets and main
traffic centers. The sales yards would be low cost operations and would be
manned by a sales clerk and one or two workmen to assist, depending on
volumeb sold daily. A price list would be made up for stores and poles of
various lengths. Stock control would be kep: currently by the sales clerk
and physical stock controlled frequently by project management.
39.       In addition to poles being sold locally at the demonstration
sales centers more distant markets should be sought for special contracts.



Annex 3-2
-56 -                              Page 11 of 11
The forest management and utilization specialist would be involved with
market promotion. In the middle of the Omo forest reserve is a sawmill,
now operated as a state owned company, the Gateway Timber Industries Ltd.
The sawmill has a chemical treatment plant which at present is not used its
full capacity. An agreement should be made with the sawmill for treating
of poles from both c" the plantatiorn units and the possibility of starting
a large scale production of transmission poles should be examined.
40.       Teak wood saw relatively easily, is very stable and take a good
finish; it is excellent for furniture making. Sawn teak is much sought
after in Ibadan and Lagos and the price can reportedly be about double of
that of mahogany. No systematic sawing of plantation grown species is at
present taking place in Nigeria; this is mainly because natural wood
resources still exist but also because plantations, mainly established as
from the late 1960's, are only about the present time get-ing into the age
when larger dimensions are available.  Because plantation grown Linbers do
not obtain the same large dimensions as indigenous hardwoods they should
preferably be sawn on lighter equipment to reduce waste and to increase the
speed of sawing.
41.       The major benefits of this project component would be the
beginning of systematic forest management with emphasis on utilization
aspects. In the past, plantation efforts were practically all geared
towards planting. Incremental benefits have only been taken into account
for the thinning programs in teak which has been costed under the direct
project program. Benefits could be larger if the project succeeds in
carrying out thinning in larger areas through sales on stump or on a self
financing revolving fund basis. Another major benefit would be protection
of the pre project plantations against fire. No attempt has been made to
quantify the benefit of fire protection in economic terms as this would be
somewhat speculative.
WAPAB
September 1986



-57 -
Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
1.        The proposed technical assistance program would comprise 72
staff years of internationally recruited experts and 22.5 staff years of
consultancy services. Each of these components is described below.
(i)  Internationally Recruited Experts (72 staff years)
2.        The Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency (FARA) would
handle all international recruitment. Set up by FMG to handle ADP re-
cruitment and supported by the Bank-assisted Agricultural Technical
Assistance Project (Ln 2029-UNI), FARA is able to recruit staff at a
reasonable cost (about US$65,000 per annum in 1985), partly because its
overhead is absorbed and not passed on to the projects. Another
advantage is that it permits FMG to standardize remuneration for the
hundreds of international experts working on agricultural projects in
Nigeria. Although FARA would advertise internationally, Nigerians would
be able to apply. If found tI.e most appropriate for the position, they
would be awarded the contract. The terms Nigerians receive are less
favorable then the normal international contract terms, but provide a
premium over the civil service, serving as an inducement to attract
qualified candidates.
3.        The need for internationally recruited assistance in Nigeria
comes primarily from the lack of qualified local staff who are willing
to work in the civil service or at civil service salary rates. This
scarcity is particularly acute for senior managers, financial personnel,
notably qualified accountants, and skilled technical staff. The pro-
posed project would follow a system that has worked well with the ADPs.
It is a mixed management system where expatriate and local staff work
closely together with expatriates gradually being phased out as compe-
tent local staff become available for senior positions. Often the local
staff have held mid-management positions and once they have had appro-
priate exposure to the project, are able to replace the expatriate
staff. This normally holds true for the top management jobs- Some of
the specialist jobs like Financial Controller are more difficult to
localize and it is not unusual to have to fill these positiors with
international experts for the duration of the project. For the proposed
project, it is assumed that no expatriate would remain on post for more
than six years. Since the project implementation period is for eight
years, it is assumed that the project would be under total local
nanuagement for its last two years. Internationally recruited experts
are required for management and training.



-58 -                            Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 3
4.        Management (69 man years).  Experts would be recruited to help
manage FORMECU, APCU and several of the state project units under AP and
FMP. Specifically, the following positions would be filled from the
beginning of the project:
(a)  FORMECU                                                       Years
Head of Unit                                                     3
Financial Adviser                                                3
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer                                3
Data Processing Officer                                          3
Forest Management Officer                                        3
Forest Utilization and Marketing Officers (2)                    6
Sub-Total                                                       21
(b) FED State Units
Kaduna - Project Manager                                         4
Engineer                                                4
Benue  - Project Manager                                         4
Sub-Total                                                       12
(c) APCU
Project Coordinator                                              5
Financial Controller                                             5
Silviculturist/Agroforester                                      5
Training and Extension Officer                                   5
Sub-Total                                                       20
(d) AP State Units
Borno - AP State Coordinator                                      4
Kano  - AP State Coordinator                                      4
Plateau - AP State Coordinator                                    4
Sokoto - AP State Coordinator                                     4
Sub-Total                                                        16
Total Staff Years                                           69
The positions and the amount of time recommendedi &or each
depends on the size of the program being administered and the plovious
experience Nigeria has had in the various activities to be undertaken by
the project.  In case of FMP, Nigeria has had extensive experience with
industrial plantations and therefore it should be possible for FORMECU
and FMP state project units to operate largely with local staff.
FORMECU is currently headed by a competent Nigerian, who is expected to
retain his position when the post is advertised internationally. AP
presents more problems, particularly the farm forestry component which
would require a great deal of careful attention and high level



-59 -                                Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 3
involvement to succeed. For this reason APCU's four top positions would
be internationally recruited as well as the project managers in the four
largest AP state units. Given that the AP program would take several
years to be successfully launched, each position would be occupied for
five years by internationally qualified staff.
5.        Training (3 man years).  A training adviser would be recruited
to manage the forestry training program at the Oluwa Forestry Training
Center in Ondo State. The expert would advise the school's principal on
curricula, staffing and teaching practices. A similar role in the Kano
Forestry Training Center would be played by APCU's internationally
recruited Training and Extension Officer.
(ii) Consultancy Services (22.5 staff years).
6.        APCU and FORMECU would retain consultants to help with
training policy analysis, studies and research.  In selecting firms or
individuals, they would follow the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency". Consultants would be retained for the following work.
7.        Training (1 staff year).  Consultants would visit the  Oluwa
Forestry Training Center periodically to provide guidance on forestry
teaching techniques. The consultants would advise local teachers on
state of the art developments in technical subjects and would be able to
import teaching materials to improve the content of forestry courses.
8.        Policy Studies (4 staff years).  The project would support two
major policy studies. One would prepare a National Forest Policy Study,
the other would prepare a National Forest Revenue System. These studies
are described in paras 2.08 and 2.09, respectively.
9.        Research (11.0 staff years).  Research activities would be
undertaken in conjunction with AP. The activities are described in
detail in Annex 3-4.
10.       Studies (6.5 staff years).  About 4.5 staff years of consul-
tants' time would be used for the long term Afforestation Plan and
Household Energy Supply and Demand Studies to be undertaken by APCU
(para 3.19). Two staff years of consultancy time would be used for
preparing a follow-up project.
SAPAB
September 1986



- 60 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Research Program
Aims
1.        Although there have been many years experience in arid zone
afforestation, improvements can still be made in basic techniques and there
is at present very little knowledge of the magnitudes of direct and indi-
rect benefits. A research program is proposed which would aim to: (i)
improve establishment techniques, giving better survival and growth; (ii)
examine the acceptability and effectiveness of alternative farm forestry
models; (iii) determine yields of wood and other tree products; and (iv)
monitor the effects and impact of various types of afforestation activities
in particular the effects of shelterbelts and farm forestry on wind veloci-
ties, soil moisture retention, nutrient status and the general effect of
crop yields. Three levels of research are envisaged: (i) practical field
investigations to improve shelterbelt establishmen_ results; (ii) more
complex research giving results of importance to long-term planning; and
(iii) longer term research, the results of which are of secondary impor-
tance to the project's main goals. The first type would be carried out
mainly by the research unit in each state with guidance where needed from
the Technical Division in APCU. Topics would include species testing,
nursery techniques, establishment techniques and soil and water testing.
The second type of research would be carried out under the auspices of the
Technical Division in APCU. Work would be contracted to qualified agencies
and organizations. Topics might include wood yields, effects of
agro-forestry systems and effects of shelterbelts. The third category of
research would be left to existing research agencies. This might include
non-wood yields of farm tree species, the silvics of endemic species and
natural forest management systems. For topics in categories (ii) and (iii)
above, where specialized scientific skills would be required, research work
would be contracted to local institutions (for example the Shelterbelt
Research Station of FRIN or the Chad Basin Research Institute) or
consultants. The opportunities for obtaining bilateral assistance for some
research fields, especially category (iii), should be investigated. The
research topics listed under (i) to (iii) above are mentioned separately in
the following.
Research Topics
2.        Species Selection.  Knowledge about suitable species for the arid
zone and their environmental requirements is already well developed.
However, further investigations into the introduction of untried species
and provenances is warranted. Test seed would be procured by the Technical
Division in APCU and distributed to each state for test plantings. Small
demonstration plots would initially be established at different locations



- 61 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 3
in each state. They should include both neem and Eucalyptus camaldulensis
as standards.
3.        Nursery Technicues.  In general, no problems are experienced with
raising seedlings. One exception is Acacia albida which apparently becomes
dormant if grown in pots, this being a severe constraint to its wider use
as a farm tree. Research is needed into the reasons for this dormancy and
ways to overcome it by nursery techniques. Such a topic could best be
carried out by one of the research inst_tutions, although tests with
different nursery practices could be done by the states.
4.        Establishment Techniques.  A better knowledge of measures to
increase early seedling growth and to enhance survival in difficult sites
is required. Topics to examine might include: seedling size, size of
polypot, seedling hardness, use of fertilizer manure and/or compost in the
field; site preparation including size and depth of planting hole and
planting in furrows; direct sowing and the use of goats in propagation of
A. albida.
5.        Soil and Water Testing.  As part of routine operational proce-
dure, soil testing would be carried out in shelterbelt areas prior to
establishment. This would determine soil depth, depth of the water table,
texture, water holding capacity and pH. The information would be used to
decide site suitability, the species to plant there and any special mea-
sures necessEry.  The work would be carried out by each state's research
unit.
6.        Wood Yields.  There is very little knowledge about the yields of
either plantation or farm tree species, although both FRIN and the Chad
Basin Research Institute have started work in this area. Provision would
be made to continue this work. Species of initial interest would be
Eucalyptus camaldulensis, neem, Acacia senegal, A. nilotica, A. albida.
Early results would have to be obtained from measurements of free standing
and plantation grown trees at different ages, but growth plots should also
be established in both new and coppiced areas. Equally it will be impor-
tant to determine the rate of branch rtgrowth on lopped trees. This
research would be carried out under the auspices of the Technical Section
in APCU but would require assistance from FRIN or other agencies.
7.        Agroforestry Systems.  In order to improve the acceptance of farm
tree planting there is a need to get a better understanding of the tradi-
tional production systems and the place of trees in them in terms of both
ecology and socio-economy. The effects of farm trees on crop yields also
need to be better understood and scientifically quantified. These investi-
gations would need to be carried out by a team including an agronomist, a
sociologist and a forester and should be done on a contract basis.
8.        Skl'terbelt Effects.  The effects of shelterbelts on reduction of
wind speeds and the consequent effects on soil moisture, soil movement and
eventually yields of different major crops need to be better quantified for



- 62 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 3
different trees species, ages season, etc. Work already started by FRIN in
this field would be continued.
9.        Yield of Other Tree Products.  Knowledge of yields of tannin, gum
arabic, baobab bark and various types of fruit are not well known; even
less well quantified is production from different fodder tree species.
10.       The Silvies of Endemic Savanna Species which are not yet well
known warrant further study and their place in possible arid zone forestry
systems should be assessed. Work would include studies of the species'
growth habits and their environmental requirements in relation to their
management in natural forest ecosystems and their possible use as planted
species.
11.       Management of Natural 'orests would include examination of the
effects of excluding livestock on the regeneration and growth of natural
forests in different rainfall and soil zones and also the effects of
introduction of various harvesting practices.
Implementation
12.       Those topics which could be handled by the state forestry divi-
sions would be supervised by the research officer assigned to each state's
administration unit, a professional forester at the assistant conservator
level (GL-09). He would be supported by a forest superintendent, an
assistant superintendent, 3 overseers and 6 attendants. A 2-wheel drive
pick up, basic equipment and materials are provided for.
13.       Research undertaken under APCU would be supervised by the
silviculturist/agroforester in charge of the Technical Division. It would
mainly be carried out by FRIN or the Chad Basin Research Institute ca a
contract basis, although some might more appropriately be handled z.
private consultants. Provision is made for research equipment, consAltan-
cies, stipends and transportation.
WAPAB
September 1986



- 63 _
Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Preparation of a National Afforestation Plan
and a Household Energy Supply and Demand Study
I. National Afforestation Plan
1.        The development of a National Afforestation Plan for Nigeria
would aim to: (i) obtain a clear picture of the factors contributing to
deforestation in northern Nigeria as well as problems with soil erosion or
land degradation in other parts of the country through the compilation of
available information from various sources and the collection of additional
necessary data through trials and surveys; and (ii) based on this
information, recommend a long-term program of investments to arrest and
reverse the process.
2.        The work would be carried out under the supervision of the Read
of the Technical Division of APCU. Studies would be undertaken in the
areas of site evaluation, forest inventory and growth, rural sociology,
agroforestry and silviculture, and agriculture and livestock. A general
description of these studies is as follows:
(a) Physical Site Conditions
(i) Review available information on changes in physical
conditions leading to desertification in the arid and
semi-arid zones, including climatic change, geology,
soil conditions, vegetational change and water
relations, where possible relating trends to human
influences such as land clearing, cultivation methods,
overgrazing and modification of stream and river flows
through irrigation works;
(ii) gather additional primary data as needed and practical
within the term of the assignment;
(iii) on the basis of this information, outline possible
measures to arrest deforestation;
(iv) in coordination with other team members, describe



- 64 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 6
practical measures for amelioration of the physical
environment that can be implemented within a 20- to
30-year period; and
(v) specify the need and methods for gathering additional
information and outline a system for monitoring changes
in key environmental factors.
(b) Forest Conditions and Tree Stocks
(i)  Design a system for performing an inventory to
determine growing stocks in different forest types,
both in forest reserves and non-forest land, and of
tree stocks on agricultural land, concentrating on the
5 northern states, including areas outside the arid
zone, but also including badly deforested areas in
other parts of the country. The inventory would make
use of available remote sensing imagery such as
Landsat, aerial photography and SLAR, and include new
imagery where needed;
(ii) supervise the implementation of the inventory and
analyse the results in terms of growing stocks by
different category, and growth and depletion rates;
(iii) provide methods for quantifying the important non-wood
tree products and for determining their growth and
depletion rates;
(iv) specify the need and methods for continuing movltoring
of tree stocks and their growth rates; and
(v) based on preliminary estimates of growing stock and
growth and depletion rates, make projections of
balances of wood and other products given different
scenarios of human and livestock population growth
rates and demands for the products.
(c) Rural Sociology
(i)  Review information on rural populations, including both
settled and transhumant communities in order to
determine their patterns of natural resource use and
how these are changing as a result of internal and
external pressures;
(ii) examine attitudes of rural populations to farm forestry
and determine what sociological constraints exist to
farmers planting and protecting trees and what type of
approach would be successful in overcoming these
constraints;



- 65
Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 6
(iii)  identify areas where comiunities can exert positive
influences in the conservation of their local natural
resources and outline conditions that government can
create to facilitate such actions;
(iv)  comment on the role that local traditional and
religious leaders can play in influencing change; and
(v) in coordination with the other experts, develop
long-term plans for land use management, concentrating
on the arid zone but also including other badly
deforested areas, ensuring that any proposals are
sociologically sound.
(d) Agroforestry and Silviculture
Ci) Critically review the alternative approaches to
afforestation, reforestation, natural forest
management, and farm forestry taken in Nigeria and also
in neighboring countries with arid and semi-arid
conditions, detailing, with reasons, successes and
failures;
(ii)  based on the experience gained from previous and
ongoing efforts, outline a 20- to 30- year forestry
program for all of Nigeria, concentrating on the arid
zone with the aims of providing forest products
sufficient for the projected demands of the population
and of protection of soil and water resources;
(iii) describe the infrastructure and organization needed to
carry out the recommended program and provide estimates
of costs; and
(iv)  describe a monitoring system for assessing the progress
of the plan's implementation.
(e) Agriculture and Livestock
(i) In cooperation with the ADPs and the State Ministries
of Agriculture, review current agricultural practices,
including the role played by sedentary and transhumant
livestock;
(ii)  based on information available in the ADPs, categorize
different classes of land according to soil type, water
table, average annual rainfall and degree of exposure
and from ADP and other data estimate levels of
productivity for different major food and fooder crops,
attempting to relate productivity to exposure;



- 66 -
Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 6
(iii) outline experiments to obtain primary data on various
influences on crop yields;
(iv) examine the fodder production from crop residues, and
from farm and forest trees, and determine the livestock
carrying capacity of different locations;
(v) together with the agroforestry/silviculture and site
evaluation studies, examine possible changes in farming
systems that would allow farmers to increase the number
of trees on farms at reasonable expense without
reducing crop production;
(vi) outline a plan for introducing improved
agro-silvicultural-pastoral systems and, drawing on the
experiences of the ADPs, describe in detail how the
extension service would work;
(vii) provide recommendations on ways to manage and control
the livestock populations, including proposals for
increased fodder production and settlement outside the
arid zone; and
(viii) outline a system to monitor the adoption of improved
farming practices and their effects in terms of
improved environment and crop yields.
Timetable
3.        APCU would carry out the above studies with the assistance of
consultants. In addition, APCU would oversee some basic research work into
species selection, nursery and establishment techniques, soil and water
characteristics, etc. (see Working Paper No. 2, pg. 33-35). Once the
preparatory studies are complete, APCU, with the assistance of consultants
as necessary, would prepare a detailed plan for a program of future
investments in afforestation would have as their objective: (i) reduce the
process of deforestation; (ii) enhance soil fertility and create the
climate for improved agricultural production; (iii) improve the
availability of fuelwood, poles, fodder, fruit and other wood-related
products.
II. Household Energy Supply and Demand Study
Development ObJective
4.        To assist the formulation of policies to help meet household
energy needs in northern Nigeria.



- 67 -
Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 6
Immediate Objectives
5.        Establish existing household energy consumption patterns and
preferences by income level, geographical area and socio-economic grouping.
6.        Establish the current and prospective availability and cost of
household fuels, relative to existing and potential demand.
7.        Evaluate the potential, acceptability and economic attractiveness
of potential substitute fuels for wood, as well as for energy conservation
measures.
8.        Outline a recommended household energy strategy to meet longterm
household energy needs at minimum cost.
Indicators of Achievement
9.        Data on existing and anticipated demand for fuelwood to orient
thc scale and location of fuelwood supply and conservation initiatives.
10.       Information on the current and potential future acceptability,
on, social, performance and cost grounds, of potential substitutes for
fuelwood, including electricity, kerosene and LPG.
11.       Information on the technical and economic potential for raising
the efficiency of energy use through such measures as improved wood stoves
and more efficient charcoal production techniques.
12.       Identification of cost-effective measures to improve the
acceptability, availability and affordability of substitute fuels and of
alternate technology for consuming and producing energy.
Outputs
13.       A concise report describing current household energy consumption
patterns in northern Nigeria and preferences, relative to the cost and
availability of supplies. A review of the potential for and possible means
to promote substitution of alternative fuels to wood and of raising the
efficiency of energy use. The outline of a recommended strategy for
satisfying long-term household energy needs in northern Nigeria, including
policy measures, investment requirements and institutional changes, which
would guide the Nigerian Federal and State authorities, the World Bank and
other donors in planning fuelwood-related forestry and fuelvood
conservation projects and NNPC and NEPA in improving the marketability and
supply of substitute fuels.
Description of Activity
14.       Identification of appropriate Nigerian educational/research
institution(s) to participate in survey planning, conduct field interviews
and assedile and analyse data.



- 68 -
Annex 3-5
Page 6 of 6
15.      Selection of appropriate urban and rural survey sites in
consultation with federal and state officials.
16.      Development of household survey questionnaires and fuel supply
analysis questionnaires.
17.      Recruitment and training of enumerators.  Pilot testing and
refinement of questionniares.
18.      Survey of sample households and fuel supply situation at each
site.
19.      Data assembly, manipulation and analysis.
20.      Preparation of conclusions and recommendations concerning
household energy strategy.
WAPAB
September 1986



-69 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 13
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Organization and Management
1.        FDF would have overall responsibility for the project which it
would exercise through the Forestry Management, Evaluation and
Coordinating Unit (FORMECU), which would be officially established under
the project. FORMECU would oversee directly FMP activities and would
also have overall coordinating responsibility for AP, but it would
delegate operational control to the Afforestation Project Coordinating
Unit (APCU), which would see that AP was carried out in the six
participating states. The annex discusses FORMECU's operations while
those of each FMP state (Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo) are described in
Annex 3-2. Also described in this Annex are APCU and the state AP units
and the general management of AP activities. Charts are at the back of
the annex.
(i) FORMECU
2.        FORMECU would be the main coordinator of the proposed project.
It would play a role in technical assistance coordination such as
recruitment of international staff and consultants and would also keep
the Director of FDF currently informed on project developments. The
Head of FORMECU and several senior staff would be recruited
internationally, though qualified Nigerians would be eligible to
compete. FDF would supply the necessarv counterpart staff as well as
support staff.
3.        FORNECU would keep a current dialogue with state governments
concerning the states' financial contributions and it would monitor and
advise on project accounting and progress in auditing. The Financial
Adviser of FORMECU would be internationally recruited. He should have
several years of experience in management and accounting practices with
a large project or corporation and should also have experience from
Africa. The Financial Adviser would control FORMECU's own accounts and
help project units to set up a uniform accounting system and assist them
in drafting financial regulations. He would be assisted by an
accountant and the necessary accounts staff for FORMECU's own
accounting. The Financial Adviser would travel regularly to FMP project
units and APCU to supervise accounting practices, control systems and
stores. Each project unit should be visited at least once every three
months.
4.        FORMECU would monitor closely the performance of each forestry
unit under the project. Based on time studies, standard performance
targets would be set up for all forestry operations. Against these



Annex 3-6
-70-                        Page 2 of 13
performance targets, actual achievements would be measured. Projects
units would be advised if they deviate significantly from standtrd
performance.
5.        Monitoring in the proposed project would cover more units than
in the first project and the scope of work would be greater and more
diversified. FORMECU would prepare regular reports on the achievements
of the industrial forestry program in Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo
states, and would review monitoring activity and reports being prepared
by APCU. A monitoring and evaluation officer, to be recruited
internationally, would be responsible for monitoring the entire project.
FMP data collection and monitoring, following the present system, would
be carried out by Nigerian counterparts. The monitoring and evaluation
officer would be assisted by three FDF monitoring officers responsible
for monitoring (a) APCU, (b) Kaduna, and (c) Benue, Ogun and Ondo states
programs. Nigerian counterparts would assist with analysis of data and
project evaluation. The monitoring and evaluation officer should be an
economist or forest economist and have several years of experience in
project analysis and evaluation.
6.        To assist with development of marketing and utilization
expertise two experts would be recruited to internationally work with
the FMP states on marketing and end uses of plantation wood. A third
expert, knovledgeable on forest management issues, would be recruited
internationally by FORMECU. He would advise the FMP project units on
forest management practices.
(ii) Afforestation Project Coordinating Unit (APCU)
7.        APCU would form the link between the states and the Federal
Department of Forestry. It would provide general technical supervision;
monitoring and evaluation; coordination of research, training and
extension; procurement and financial control. In addition, it would be
responsible for development of a long-term plan for forestry activities
in the arid zone. All incremental positions would be costed under the
project.
8.        The Unit would be headed by a Project Coordinator who would
report to the Director of FDF through FORMECU in Ibadan. The Project
Coordinator, who would be internationally recruited should ideally be a
professional forester and must have substantial experience in natural
resource management. Three other positions in the unit would also be
Internationally recruited - a financial controller, a silviculturist
/agroforestry officer and an extension/training officer. Senior locally
recruited staff would include a monitoring and evaluation coordinator,
and a procurement officer. Other support staff would include an
administration officer and senior superintendents who would assist the
serior officers.



Annex 3-6
rage e or 13
- 71 -
9.        The Finance and Procurement Division would be responsible for
maintenance of the project a accounts, handling disbursements from the
World Bank and Federal Government and preparation of bidding documents.
10.       The Technical Division would have the responsibility for
drawing up technical specifications for field operations and preparation
of annual plans. It would also determine research needs and appoint
consultants or research institutes where appropriate. The division
would also appoint consultants and coordinate the preparation of the
National Afforestation Plan.
11.       The Training and Extension Division would have responsibility
for coordinating the training needs at all levels in the states and
developing training programs. It would also be responsible for adminis-
tration of the Forestry Vocational Training Center at Kano and prepara-
tion of extension material in collaboration with the ADPs.
12.       The Monitoring and Evaluation Division would design and
prepare instructions for monitoring work to be carried out in each of
the States, specifying the needs for diffeient types of information to
be collected. It would collate results and prepare reports for manage-
ment and also follow up activities where targets were not being achieved
in order to clarify the reasons and to take counter-measures where
necessary.
13.       A committee would be formed in each state to ensure that the
operatious of various government agencies involved in AP are properly
coordinated and that there is no inefficient duplication of effort in
their activities. Each committee would be chaired by the State
Commissioner in charge of the Forestry Division and have the AP's state
manager as Executive Secretary. Other agencies represented would
include the River Basin Rural Development Authorities, FDF, the ADPs,
the Livestock Service (where these do not fall under the same
commissioner as forestry) and a representative of the local government
agencies. A similar committee already exists in Sokoto (it includes
farmers' representatives and traditional rulers as well as both State
and Federal Division Heads and local governments).
(iii) AP State Units
14.       Borno, Kano, Plateau and Sokoto.  In these States all project
activities would be the responsibility of a State Project Coordinator
who would report to the Chief Conservator of Forests. This position
would be filled th7ough international recruitment. There would be a
small administration unit attached to the Forestry Division Headquarters
plus Zonal Operations Units (two in Kano and Plateau and three each in
Borno and Sokoto) for carrying out the activities in the field. The
zones would correspond closely with the administrative zones of the
ADPS.



Annex 3-6
-72-                            Page 4 of 13
15.       The State HQ Administration Unit would have a support func-
tion, facilitating coordination with APCU at Kano, and general account-
ing and clerical work. It would have four senior officers (GL 09): an
accountant with responsibility for financial control and local pur-
chases; a monitoring officer who would assist locally with the monitor-
ing and evaluation work performed by Kano; a research officer, who would
orga°ize practical field trials; a training/extension officer who would
prepare each state's extension and training in coordination with the
ADPS and APCU. The Unit would have a support staff of 17 (GL 04-06)
including technical assistants, research overseers and clerks.
16.       Each Zonal Operations Unit would be headed by a Senior Forest
Superintendent (GL 18) who would oversee all project activities within a
zone and vould coo?dinate directly with the Zonal Agricultural Offices
of the ADPs on farm forestry extension issues. There would be three
Forest Superintendents (GL 07) in each zone having responsibilities for
the operation of nurseries, shelterbelt establishment and farm forestry
extension.
17.       Each nurser would be supervised by an Assistant Forest
Superintendent (GL 05 who would have responsibility for day-to-day
nursery management. There would be two Silvicultural Assistants (GL 03)
and five skilled laborers (GL 01) attached to each nursery. Additional
workers would be hired on a casual basis during peak work periods.
18.       There would be one Shelterbelt Unit in each zone (except in
Plateau which only does farm forestry). These would determine exact
shelterbelt locations and layout, based on State priorities, identify
the land owners, survey areas and generally supervise the establishment
and maintenance operations. Two assistant superintendents per zone
would be responsible for the direct supervision. They would each have
the assistance of four Silvicultural assistants and six skilled laborers
(10 in Kano). Additional casual labor would be hired during the
planting season.
19.       Each zone would have a Farm Forestry Extension Unit, managed
by a forest superintendent (GL 07). There would be one Assistant
Extension Superintendent for each LGA which had been selected for
concentration of farm forestry activities in the zone. These would
coordinate directly with the Acsistant Agricultural Superintendent level
in the ADP with regard to seedling requirements and scheduling of
distribution xor farm planting. Because there is no ADP in northern
Borno there would be four Silvicultural Assistants for each LGA in the
northern part of Borno to assist the agricultural extension service.
20.       Nurseries would be the foci of activities for shelterbelt and
farm forestry operations and vehicles and equipment would be used for
both as required. Zonal offices would be established at one central
nursery in each zone.



Annex 3-6
-73 -                        7age 5 o  13
21.       Bauchi would have essentially the same structure as Borno,
Sokoto and Kano but, because the program would operate in only one zone
(comprising the LGAs of Kabagum and Gamawa), the structure would be
simplified and there would be a smaller staff. At the State administra-
tive level, the position of State Project Coordinator would be carried
out by a Senior Forestry Division Officer. This administration unit
would have key officers in charge of monitoring, research,
training/extension and accounting but the support staff would only be
ten. In the field, there would only be two nurseries, and shelterbelt
establishment activities would probably be restricted to a single
locality in any one year. There would thus be one nursery
superintendent in charge of two nurseries (each run by an assistant
superintendent), a shelterbelt superintendent and two extension
superintendents (one in each local government).
22.       In Kaduna, the EEC - Kaduna Arid Zone Afforestation Project
(KAZAP) would include farm forestry extension as well as shelterbelt and
plantation establishment activities in all five LGAs in the arid part of
the State (Katsuna, Maru, Daura, Dutsin Ma and Kankija). To avoid
possible conflict the project would not duplicate establishment efforts,
restricting activities to farm forestry extension in coordination with
the ADP in locations where KAZAP was not active. Only a small project
management unit would therefore be set up at Forestry Division headquar-
ters. Principal officers directly involved with the project would
include one forest superintendent for nurseries, three nursery assistant
superintendents.
(iv) Operations of AP
23.       Nurseries.  During the period of the Arid Zone Afforestation
Project, 68 nurseries were established throughout the 5 northern states.
In addition, the State Governments have independently operated about 145
nurseries, mostly within the arid zone, and there are several small ADP
nurseries in Kano and Kaduna states. The total seedling production if
all nurseries were operating at full capacity is likely to be more than
30 million seedlings annually - well in excess of what can be absorbed
in a rural afforestation program given the States' present forestry
extension capabilities. There is thus little need to expand nursery
capacity and the immediate aim must be to improve the efficiency of
seedling production and distribution.
24.       This would be achieved by the improvement of selected nurser-
ies through replacement of worn equipment and ensuring a reliable water
supply, as well as the provision of new vehicles for seedling distribu-
tion. Provision is made for some new nurseries to be established to
reduce transport costs in distribution and to relocate close to water,
but seedling production under the project will be restricted to the
needs of shelterbelt establishment and a realistic supply to farm
forestry. A maximum of eight new (or relocated) nurseries would be
established and 27 existing state forestry nurseries would be upgraded.
Each nursery would have a capacity of about 250,000 seedlings. One



Annex 3-6
r-age b or 13
- 74 -
nursery in each zone would function as a central nursery and will have
basic mechanical workshop facilities.
25.       The upgrading and relocation would be phased over the project
period depending on the size of the shelterbelt program and the abi;'-y
of the agricultural extension services t absorb seedlings for farm
forestry. Investment would begin in the first project year so that
nurseries would be fully operational for production by the start of PY2.
26.       Essentially, the establishment of new nurseries would involve
relocating existing ones which, because of distance to priority
shelterbelt locations or unreliable water supplies, cannot operate
efficiently. Activities involve land acquisition, site preparation,
construction of fences and windbreaks, erection of basic buildings for
stores and accommodation of supervisory staff, transfer or purchase of
irrigation equipment and purchase of tools. Since each nursery would
function as a center for shelterbelt establishment, the equipment would
include items needed for field operations as well as for seedling
production. To assure a reliable water supply it is assumed that all
new nurseries would require boreholes.
27.       There is a wide variation in the conditions and capacities of
present nurseries. The inputs needed to upgrade each to produce 250,000
seedlings efficiently vary accordingly. It has been assumed that no
additional land would need to be purchased, nor any site preparation
carried out. Fencing would need general repair and some extension,
while buildings would not need to be repaired and upgraded. For irriga-
tion equipment, the pumps, supply main, spares and water tank would be
replaced for each nursery but replacement of only 50% of the spraylines
needed for new nurseries is assumed. Tool and equipment replacement
would be complete. Boreholes would be provided for only 75% of nurser-
ies.
28.       The seedling production to be supportee under the project
would be sufficient for shelterbelts and the proposed farm forestry
program. The individual states may, however, wish to maintain addition-
al nurseries and produce extra seedlings if required. The proportion of
fruit and fodder tree seedlings would be increased from that produced
under the AZAP program. Technical assistance would be given to the ADPs
in Kano and Kaduna tc raise their own seedlings in small village
nurseries but these woold receive no direct financial support for
nursery establishment or seedling production.
29.       The production schedules are based on the requirements for the
shelterbelt programs of each state and estimated capacities of extension
services. Shelterbelt requirements are based on 4,000 seedlings per
kilometer while farm forestry needs assume that 10% of the farm families
would be reached and each would receive 100 seedlings in a phased
program with an equivalent amount of seedlings being made available for
other demands.



_ 75 _                                    Annex 3-6
Page 7 of 13
30.       The two principal species for shelterbelts would be Eucalyptus
camaladulensis and neem (Azdirachta indica) which would be produced in
the approximate proportions 40:60. Seeds are readily available in each
state. For farm forestry both these species would also be produced but
as a smaller proportion (estimated at 20Z) of the total output than in
recent years. While it is not practical here to specify the proportions
of seedlings to be produced, Working Paper Z, Table 10 provides a list
of some which have been found useful. the marLeries should give prefer-
ence to those for which farmers show the greateaL demand, although there
should also be active promotion of species which ai' known to produce
environmental benefits (such as Acacia albida). Seed for most are
available but collection may be difficult for some where. pods are
particularly pilatable to livestock (e.g., the acacias and Parkia).
Farmers should be encouraged to collect seeds and a payment for any
delivery to nurseries might be considered.
31.       Farm Forestry Activities.  Farm forestry considered here would
include village and school planting, and small private woodlots, al-
though the primary emphasis will be addressed at on-farm planting which
offers the greatest potential benefits.
32.       Extension work would comprise two major components:
(i) 3widespread media publicity through a variety of channels;
and
(ii) the "grassroot" level contacts through the agricultural
extension services and at the nurseries.
Publicity material for dissemination across the five arid zone states
would be prepared by the Training and Extension Division of APCU. This
would include written and illustrated material in Hausa and other local
languages, radio programs, and video films for display with publicity
vans. Additional moral and public support in promoting tree planting
and protection would be sought from religious and traditional leaders.
Farmer level contact will be done through the agricultural extension
services of the ADPS and must be closely coordinated with their other
publicity work. Extension workers must be able to communicate to
farmers:
(i)       the values of different types of trees in terms of what
they produce and what can be gained in consumable pro-
ducts and financial returns;
(ii)      the value of trees in terms of their protective function
and their enhancement of agricultural productivity;
(iii)     how trees can be included in existing agricultural
systems; and



Annex 3-6
Page 8 of 13
(iv)     how to get seedlings, how to plant them and how to
maintain them; and
(v)       the importance of leaving standing trees vhen clearing
land for agriculture in southern areas of the states
outside the arid zone.
'This information mu-- be included as a part of regular agricultural
extension messages. The main project activity would be the training and
technical support of the extension workers.
33.       The links between the forest service and agricultural exten-
sion in each state worild have to be developed as the program gets under
way and will depend on the characteristics of each ADP. It is envisaged
that the point of contact would be at the Assistant Forest Superinten-
dent level in the Forestry Divisions and the Agricultural Superinten-
dents in the ADPs or Extension Service. This means that field overseers
would not be supervised directly by Forestry staff and that division in
command would be avoided. It also means that agricultural staff in
supervisory positions would also have to receive training in agro-
forestry. Suitable orientation programs in agroforestry aim at the
various middle lewel ADP officer should be developed by the Training and
Extension Division at Kano in close coordination with senior ADP offi-
cers. In each zone there would be higher level contact between the
senior zonal forest superintendents and the agricultural officers of the
ADPs.
34.       The types of model introc!ueed must take into account the farm
populations' demands for agricultural laud and the difficulties of
protecting young trees from animals. Detailed development of suitable
packages would have to be part of cooperative work by the forestry
services and the ADPs as the project is implemented. In broad terms,
alternatives to consider are:
(i)       dispersed tree planting in fields;
(ii)      rows of trees with intercropping;
(iii)     four-around planting on field borders; and
(iv)      block plantings, such as woodlots.
35.       Maintenance, Protection, Monitoring and Evaluation of Farm
Forestry. In visits to villages subsequent to planting the extension
worker would present material to reinforce the idea of the need for
maintenance of the young seedlings, including weeding and protection
measures. The ADP monitoring system involves visiting randomly selected
farmers and determining by questionnaire the adoption rate and impact of
various ADP practices. Monitoring and evaluation of the impact of farm
forestry extension efforts would be made partly in conjunction with



_ 77 _                              Annex 3-6
Page 9 of 13
these ADP monitoring activities. Additional items would be added to the
questionnaires to include:
(i)      whether the sample farmer was participating in farm
forestry;
(ii)      if so, how many seedlings were received and of what
types;
(iii)    when they were planted;
(iv)     what type of planting, e.g. field planting, four-around
or voodlot;
(v)      were inputs used (what type, what costs, from where);
(vi)     an assessment of survival; and
(vii)     enumeration of any problems experienced.
The data obtained from compiled ADP reports would be provided to the
monitoring officer in the Forestry Division headquarters who would
determine the needs for follow-up by the zonal forestry extension staff.
Follow-up may be called for in cases of poor survival, or other problems
arising from the ADP monitoring reports. However, monitoring indepen-
dent of ADP activities, would also be carried out by the forestry
extension staff and the state monitoring officer. This would involve
only participating farmers and provide much more in-depth checks on
degree of adoption and success rates.
36.       Shelterbelts have been established in Northern Nigeria since
the early 1960s and the techniques are well known.  Their principal
function is protecting and rehabilitating land which is considered
valuable both because of population density and because the land is
sufficiently productive to grow crops but which, because of overexposure
due to overcutting of farm trees, has shown a marked decline in yields.
While such areas are generally close to the northern fringes of the
country, this may not necessarily be so. Belts should be situated close
to protect well-defined areas with the intention that the land between
them will be restored to give hig.er yields. Areas where shelterbelt
establishment is likely to be difficult-such as active sand dunes or
those where irrigation would be required after planting-should be
avoided, at least for the present. Therefore a few locations in each
state (maximum one per zone) would be selected and these would be
adequately established before moving on to others. In all situations,
there should be a combined farm-forestry/shelterbelt approach, with
strong encouragement for farmers whose land falls between the belt to
plant field trees.
37.       There is considerable variation in the designs adopted by
different states and so far limited evidence to show that any are



Annex 3-6
-78 -                                  rage iu of 13
superior. In Kano most belts have single species, either neem or
eucalyptus, and comprise 8 rows of trees at 3x3 meter square spacing to
give a width of 27 meters. In Kaduna several variations have been
tried, including 3-r7w neem belts at 3x3 meter triangular spacing and
also 150 meter wide belts of 50 rows. Both Sokoto and Bauchi have used
a combination of species. In Bauchi, two windward rows of Acacia
senegal, one row of Acacia nilotica and six leeward rows of neem have
been tried giving a total width of 30 meters. The Sokoto model has two
outer rows of Acacia nilotica (both windward and leeward) and 7 interior
rows of neem. The aim of the more shrubby acacias as outer rows is to
Increase wind resistance at lower levels and to give the belt a more
aerodynamic profile, cutting down turbulence close to the edges.
Unfortunately, the acacias have proven highly palatable to goats and no
longer form an effective barrier. Kano and Sokoto have both adopted a
200-meter interval between belts giving a protected area of approximate-
ly 20 hectares per kilometer. The width of shelterbelts is the major
difference between the states and there is no proof that one is better
than the other. While a wider belt takes more land out of agricultural
production and increases the amount of compensation that has to be paid,
the fencing costs per ha, and hence the wood production costs, are lower
since the length of border for each hectare is less (e.g. a 1-km
shelterbelt of 30 m width has about a 1OZ shorter fence for each hectare
than a 27 m belt). The costing here is based on a 30-meter width but
this does not imply that this model should be used everywhere. Single
species belts are proposed-neem in areas of lower rainfall and
eucalyptus in higher rainfall areas-but tests with combinations should
continue. The length will depend on the areas that need to be pro-
tected. Openings will be needed to allow passage through but to cut
down on edge turbulence, these should not be at less than one kilometer
intervals. The orientation of the shelterbelts should be at a right
angle to the most damaging winds-in general NW-SE.  It is generally
accepted that shelterbelts should be laid out in series as there is
evidence of a cumulative protective effect. There are also advantages
in protecting a block of land rather than a strip. Therefore, there
should be at least four parallel belts in any location. As wind ve-
locity is reduced on the leeward side for about 12 times the tree height
and eucalyptus and neem will grow to 15-20 m high, a spacing of 200
meters between belts is appropriate.
38.       A provisional selection of land for shelterbelts would be made
by the senior forest superintendent in each zone. These would all be
inspected by the State's project coordinator and a final selection made
according to the implementation program. This should be completed at
least one year in advance of planting. It would be an advantage if
areas for several years' planting programs could be selected and secured
at one time. The shelterbelt superintendent in each zone would be
responsible for identifying the landowners and notifying them that their
land was required. If negotiations were needed these would be carried
out by the zonal senior forest superintendent. The belts would be
surveyed and demarcated using chain and compass. Marker pegs would be
placed at 100 meter intervals and on corners.



-79 -                             Annex 3-6
Page 11 of 13
39.       Site preparation would involve the felling of any trees and
removal of stumps by hand followed by disc ploughing with a 48 kw wheel
tractor and heavy duty offset disc harrow. The ploughing would break up
the surface soil to allow the penetration of rain water and provide a
better rooting environment for the seedlings. The operation should
normally be finished by the beginning of February.
40.       Fencing would be carried out after ploughing.  Fences would
consist of wire mesh as previously used by AZAP, plus two top strands of
barbed wire, attached with binding wire to pressure-treated 2 meter
eucalyptus or teak posts (from industrial plantations). Posts will be
placed at 3 meter intervals. Gates should be located at convenient
points for tractor entrance. Staking would be necessary to ensure an
accurate even spacing of 3 meters between rows to permit mechanical
weeding. Triangular spacing is preferred to square spacing as this
would reduce the jetting effect of wind between the stems. A compass
and tape would be used to locate peg positions.
41.       Fire is not a great threat in the arid zone and good weeding
as prescribed above should minimize the risk. However, forest guard
patrols around the belts should be maintained during the period of
highest risk between the end of the rainy season and the time that
vegetation outside the fence has been grazed down by cattle. This would
be the main responsibility of the Silvicultural assistants and the
skilled laborers during the fire season. Arrangements should be made to
mobilize people from nearby villages in case of fire outbreak. The
forest guards should also regularly inspect fencing and make sure none
is broken down.
WAPA B
September 1986



NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Foest Management Program
OranIzaton Chart
ffDHUL.~                |                       Fedgrd d  d
& Rio uvloRen
Fed ppmen l
d FfastyM
EwdicnuoI & Co=kw"a#~
unfl (FORECJ)
_____________  - - - - - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - - ~- -   -   -    -           C 
Mnistry d
NotuoRoe               '
NahM Ro3ourcodesain              TWVh1
-   idCatot c, ett
d iaBsh     te_. Z  ura,
og_ ondo)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
F <  <   t Pmofm                                          Rnirc
h)tww  Role
*.-as  ......  CoraaigRl
*pnW 1906                                                                                                  dWV  Ba*-3M_3
0O 



S                  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........gl
ElI



NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
fmpbnmntatton Shoedule
R                         |    4937    |    19"    |    9 9    |    C 80 |99" |m   I"    |                   3    1    94      |9"|
CY&NG(A        196         496         496           1969        1990         199           9 1I  I     I         11"d
OUAUH  1  2  34   11        4213141 3                     1234  12a341                                   4
P*"&''   ~i' ""  ------      - - - - -    - - --
1. LOAN PROCL"W                                                                    De mrM PTI.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ¶6
2DMFORAISION PROGRAM
SV4lpAPCJ&82ote                mIllsm m                 m          m   m *m         m *mnm *m                m Um                   u
Plolet Lkfts
Deveohpnt                                        _ m   _ _ m     _ _ _ _ _ m        _ _ m m     _ - m  - -          11 m    1 1 1 1                         ,
InnVActMtthOsII .m.                                      m,. 1  1                     11                                  I
S*ifo~oCruTcaw ul AFarrn             Iis i  i  i*mm                           
otdlt                                  I ...cr _ _ ___P_ IMI I Ii  I I I           I
1 a9 1OS MMAIMN                1 P90AAMX                                                                                             II
W  "4"mnU R epogawn  Rt.
CatTlSlt t=tlioeVStw
4. ,   nO,thon W'r,a -30
WAA
Soft 19S6



NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY COSTS BY PROGRAK
Naira ('000)                 (USS'OOO)                     X
Foreign     X Total
Local      Foreign    Total        Local      Foreian    TotaL    Exchange   Base Cost
A.   Afforestation Program
1. Farm Forestry          13,446.3    9,183.3   22,629.6   13,446.3    9,183.3   aZ,629.6         41          31
2. ShetterbeLts            8,545.2    4,002.5   12,547.7    8,545.2    4,002.5   12,547.7         32          18
Sub-Total              21,991.5   13,185.8   35,177.3   21,991.5   13,185.8   35,177.3         38          49
B,   Forest Management Program
1, Existing Plantations   8,036.5    4,586.2   12,623.7    8,036.5    4,586.2   12,623.7          36          18       1
2. New Plantations         5,462.2    6,947.6   12,409.8    5,462.2    6,947.6   12,409.8         56          17       w
Sub-TotaL              13,498.7   11,534.8   25,033.5   13,498.7   11,534.8   25,033.5         46          35
C.   Program Management,
Training, PoLicy
AnaLysis, Research
and Studies                5,118.3    6,431.2   11,549.5    5,118.3    6,431.2   11,549.5         56          16
Totat Base Cost           40,608.5   31,151.8   71,760.3   40,608.5   31,151.8   71,760.3         43         100
Physical Contingencies           2,254.2    2,593.0    4,847.3    2,254.2    2,593.0    4,847.3         54          7
Price Contingencies             26,399.6    7,646.8   34,046.4   26,399.6    7,646.8   34,046.4         23         47
Total Project Costs             69,262.3   41,391.7  11.nA54.n   69,262.3   41,321,A  110.A54n.0   3z             15
00 
WAPA B
September 1986                                                                                                          0I CIO



-84-
Annex 3-8
h111                                                Page 2 of 3
(FfiSTATIN MM FTRY WANEENT)
SUMMIARY COSTS (INVESTMENT AND RECURRENT)
(N1  '000)                   (1  '000)                      Z Tota
Z fonon  km
Local  For.lo   Total       Loca   Fowrin   Total    Cxchm         Costd
1. ZIIJESTIENT COSTS
PM EIT.E0IU E S EMICLtES                  149.4  8v93B.8  10e,48.4   1,5496. 8693.8  10,498.4          85       15
IHICLES                                 1215.1 3,803.0   5016.1  1.21S. 1  3#803.0  54018.1            76        7
LlFM NU1R                                  12.4        -     12.4      12.4        -      12.4                  0
FnNIi M  EDIPNEIT                           236.P    22.0    489.8    236.8   252.0    49.8             52        1
SBEL!Eh.T                                5%35.2  34916.8  9s292.0  S5365.2  3,96.3   9,282.0            42       13
-WXM                                      12.57.2   625.9   1463.1  1,257.2    625.9   1,833.1          33        3
TECHIICAL ASUSTANMIE ScoNULTANCIES         "6.; 1?2.25,6  4918*4    661.6  436.6  46911.4               67        7
FENCDIG  RAT   S                             24.0    24.       46.0      24.0    24.0       49.0        50        0
LAE FOR LM  CLRING                            9.4       -       9.4       9.4        -       9.4         -        0
rot  INuSEIm  COSTS                         10,331.5 21,817.1  Z14.6  10,331.5 21,U7.1  32,149.6           d6       4
1. u0 er  COSTS
SLARIES                                 17335.5   432.0  17,767.5  17935.5   432.0 17767t.5             2       25
TEOIIICMa cALSSTMICE                       127.8   751.8    879.6    127.8    751.8    69.6            US        I
ENERML. wMfISR*TIE COSTS                 3P115.0 1,982.6   5P7.6  39115.0 19982.6  5097*6              39        7
RwT MM EUIc    f    WESTINTIR*TnS          860.0 2I172.9   3,032.9    660.0 29172.9  3.032*9           72        4
YEHICLE OIERETIE CAST                    1,316.6 2P430.0   3746.5  1,3166 2t430*0   3746.5             65        5
BIMDL    MInJIEIWCE                        137.2    56.86     96.0    137.2    58.8    196.0           30        0
R.F NSER                                 4#034.2 1,104.5  S 136.7  4i034.2 1t10445  5,139.7            21        7
FERTILIZER  S COICALS                       55.6   211.1    266.7       55.6   211.1    266.7          79        0
SEEILINS PIIAOCTION                        115.1   105.4    220.5    115.1   105.4    220.5            48        0
SELTERDELT oIS                           3,180.0     5.7   3,265.7  3,160.0    85.7  3,265.7            3        5
TOtal EDREN T CuSTS                        309277.0 9.33498  39,611.8 30,277.0  9334.8  39P611.8           24      5S
TotlB NSELINE COSTS                         40,609.5 31,151.9  712760.4 40606.5 31,151.9  71,760.4          43      100
Phnical C.tinamiues                        2,254.2 2593s.0   447.3  2,254.2 2593.0   4,347.3             53        7
Price Ca1niuci.s                         26,399.6 7s646.8  34O046.4 26,99.6  7646.8 34,046.4             22       47
Total FOOECT COSTS                          699262.3 41,391.7 110,654.0 69,262.3 41s391.7 110,1540          37      154
u            in inmz                         suz mz     amm
WAPAB
September 1986



NutRIA
SECOD rmasrmv P CT
(<F0REATIU0N MS FIKISTT IMWNWI
SUMMARY COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
(lRA '000)
-N       -mo.                      Fbwsilea
FOREST MANAGEMENT PROGRAM           TRAINING                      Cui timncies
AFFOPE5iESTAT1ON  . 1515  . .                                                  ICYAILYBIS
IWUCHI   ON    KAM         KANO     OKOTO    PLATEAU    wa*Ir        Il    0W 06UI mu        8SEMCN SuIW         stal       2       AU
n. m ..... u.uuaga- ..au   as6am u.n.....   5.. a..... smumm 91a41111111
I. IW6SThNOT COSTS
PtMfT.EQUJZPf(J  I YENhCLS                   203.1    706.7  217.5  1,P037,2   802.1       401.9    3i410,4 2,216.6   763.0   932.5       P5.4              10,486.4       u.s  u9o.s
WHICLES                                      209.0   633.0   95.0   737,0    682,0         5400 0      418.0 -          80. 7  300  632.5                    5.012,1       6,4    0.8
LAND FOR MsERY                                1.8      2.7       -      2.7                 5.2
FRNIJTUtE MD EOUItJffT                         4.0      6.0       -      6.0      6.0       15.0        46.6    22.2   63.0    40.0        270.0               48iS       10.0   48.9
WELDINGS                        ~~~~~~~~~~41,4  9910 2,     248.     40.0      267.4                                            -                9.12.0        4.4  406.8
ELTERIELT                                  1U46,6  2,320,5           2,948*4  2,466.5                  117.6   160;  203,6   241.0         438               1.131         9.0  170.3
OUILDINSS          41o4    99of   29s?   148,6    404           267,4       i -     -e.   2 -.   2 -            4330.0            ,103#4        10.0  411.1
TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE I CONSILIANCIES             -    300.0       -        -    300.0          -           -                                2 -  -            4U8. O.0    t16
FENCING MrERIALS                              12.0     10,0       -     18.0        *          -                                                                4.         4.6     0.4
LA9R FOR LN  CLEMIK1                           0.4      0.6       -      0.6  -              7,8                     _--
Total INWSTIENT COSTS                        ;,617.3  4;066,6   342;2  4898.5  44696,6    1.237,3    4192.6 loS10.7 1,49.6 2449.5             5101.1           32.141,6       7.5 2,410W1
11 RECURIENT cSrTS
SM*SIES                                    650.2  1,937,5        -  3,238,6  1,224,4    1.145.S    3,53,5 2,095.6 1,797.2 14949.?         2192.7           17.767.5       4.2  753.5
TECO@ICML ASSISTdCE                             -        -       -        -                   -       480U 0   3000        -       *        9.                879.6       10.0    mo.
GEIENIAL AINIISTRATIIE COSTS                 33.1    126,5    40,5    125.2   104s9    a668a           43718   265.5  204.9   21907       1485.3 50097.6                 916   490.2
PLANT MDEQUPMNTOERATI       ONS COST                                                                   667.0   569.0   594.7   690.2       304.0            3,032.9       10.0   303.3
VEHICLE OPERATIIIG COST                     83,6    277,3    55.4    251.5   275.5         60S.2       374.1   291.3  383.0  532.6         35.8              3.746.5       9.2   345.0
DUILDINS MINTEWAN                             1,6      3.2       -      3.2      3,2           -                   -                        14.               196.0       10.0   19.6
R,F NtSERY                                  222,3    933.7   538.7  2.117,4  1W306,6                   223*                                                    2.37        4.10   2456
FERTILIZER AND CHENICALS                                 -       -        -        -        361         62.3     1,I                                          220U7       10.0    26.7
SEEK INOS MODU6TION                                      -       -                                      623   153222065                                                   1040    22.1
SHFI*TERLT ON                               403,4    616,4       -  J0037.3   IOOB.5                              -_                                         3s2657 4-4   143.1
Total RECUmNT COSTS                           1.394,2  4;114;6   634,6  4;773,2  3923,2    3s459v0    5,980.1   6,9 2t979.9 3,400.4            4642.0           39.611.8       6,2 2,437.2
rota  IANLZIE COSTS                           3.011.5  8,201.2   976.8  9.671,7  8.6198    4,6963    I0.lfl,7 5'497g6 404;'4 4                  9                71,760.4       6.8 4.B47,3   -a
miwucal ComtIynwciss                           41.6    381,5    53.3    474,7    438,0       412.0       606,6   443,2   357.1  391.9         864.8           34,507.3       0,0 l0.0
PriCo C.Mt1nWuwic#                          1,665,9  4o476,5  495.0  5,152,5  4,437.2    2.199,5       4,231.1 25333 241306 2,381.4          3917.5           34,046.4       5.6     0.0 ,n
Total MOECT COSTS                              4.719,1 13*059,3 1S26;0 1529.0 13,449    ;                15,212,4 89474.0 6,957.1 7,667.2      1444I.0          110654.0        6.1 6,746.?
32.8383 8a3aas zaaumm  umaimum  *a.mms.m san"oglgazm    anamna  nasna          m
Taxn                                           73,8   205 .3    31.0    255,2   219s4        295.        43'.3  213,.  210,47  22.49t         3701.           4131,7         7. J167.3
ForuiM  Excf.an                               955.4  30.36,1   5066  4,50644  408,3        3             ,9,23362  ,4,  2791                 87424,30777  ,6.
WAPAB
September 19B6



- 86 -                        Annex 3-9
Pap 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Program Cost and Financing PLan
(USS/I)
CY  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994 Total    Z
PY   1      2      3     4      5     6      7      8
I Project Cost:
IBRD              7.40  5.40  6.90  10.90  16.50 12.40   9.00   2.50  71.0   64
FMG              4.00  4.00   4.00   4.00  3.00  3.00  3.00   2.70  27.7   25
States
Bauchi           0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.80
Benue             0.12  0.12   0.12   0.12  0.12  0.12   0.12   0.12  0.96
sorno             0.20  0.20  0.20   0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20   0.20  1.60
Kaduna           0.30  0.30  0.3U   0.30  0.30  0.30   0.30  0.30  2.40
Kano              0.25  0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25  0.25   0.25   0.25  2.00
Ogun              0.12  0.12   0.12   0.12  0.12  0.12   0.12   0.12  0.96
Ondo             0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.88
Plateau          0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.10  0.80
Sokoto           0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  1.60
Sub-totaL        1.50  1.50   1.50   1.50  1.50  1.50   1.50   1.50  12.00    11
Total            12.90 10.90 12.40  16.40 21.00 16.90  13.50  6.70 110.70  100
II Existing Staff:
FMG              0.30  0.35   0.40   0.46  0.51   0.56   0.62   0.68  3.88   21
States
Bauchi           0.10  0.12   0.14   0.16  0.18  0.20   0.22  0.24  1.36
Benue            0.10  0.12   0.14   0.16  0.18  0.20  0.22  0.24  1.36
Borno            0.05  0.06   0.07   0.08  0.09  0.10   0.11   0.12  0.68
Kaduna           0.10  0.12  0.14   0.16  0.18  0.20   0.22  0.24   1.36
Kano             0.20  0.24   0.28   0.32  0.36  0.40   0.44   0.48  2.72
Ogun             0.10  0.12   0.14  0.16  0.18  0.20   0.22   0.24  1.36
Ondo             0.10  0.12  0.14   0.16   0.18  0.20  0.22   0.24  1.36
Plateau          0.10  0.12   0.7-  0.16  0.18  0.20   0.22   0.24   1.36
Sokoto           0.20  0.24  0.28  0.32  0.36  0.40   0.44   0.48  2.72
Sub-totaL         1.05  1.26  1.47  1.68  1.89  2.10  2.31  2.52 14.28   79
TotaL             1.35  1.61   1.87  2.14  2.40  2.66  2.93  3.20 18.16  100
III Farmers:              _    0.50   0.80   0.95   1.15   1.20   1.00   0.46  6.06
TotaL Program:       14.25 13.01  15.07  19.49 24.55  20.76  17.43 10.36 134.92
Program Summary:
IBRD              7.40   5.40  6.90  10.90 16.50  12.40  9.00   2.50 71.00   53
FMG              4.30  4.35  4.40  4.46   3.51   3.56   3.62   3.38  31.58   24
States            2.55  2.76   2.97   3.18  3.39  3.60   3.81   4.02 26.28   19
Farmers           -    0.50  0.80  0.95  1.15  1.20  1.00  0.45  6.06    4
TotaL            14.25 13.01  15.07  19.49 24.55  20.76 17.43 10.36 134.92  100
WAPAS
Se!jtember 1986



NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Financing Plan by State and by Financing Source
(N Million)
Afforestation Program                      Forest Management Program       Program Management
Trajning,StudiMes tc. Totat
Bauchi   Borno   Kaduna   Kano   PLateau   Sokoto    Benue   Kaduna   Ogun   Ondo    Tud
IBRD           3.00      8.40    1.00    9.80      4.7u     8.60       5.40     9.80  4.90   4.50              10.90            71.0
FMf            0.92      3.06    0.37    3.50      1.81     3.29       2.11     3.17  1.81   1.58                6.04           27.7    c
States         0.80      1.60    0.16    2.00      0.80     1.60       0.96     2.24   0.96   0.88                -             12.01
TotaL          4.72    13.06    1.53  15.30        7.31    13.49       8.47    15.21   7.67   k.96              16.94          110.i7 
Re-tending Arrangements. FMG would re-Lend USS24.6miLLion of the IBRD Loan for FMP activities on the saome terms as the
IBRD loan to the following states: Benue (USS5.4 milLion), Kaduna tUSs9,8 milLion), Ogun (US$4.9 miLlion) and Ondo
(US$4.5 million). The states would carry the foreign exchange risk.
WAPAB                                                                                                                           I
September 1986                                                                                                                S
o 1L



- 88 -
Annex 3-10
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Local Competitive Procurement Procedures
The Federal Government'S general local competitive bidding
procedures have been reviewed and found generally acceptable with some
exceptions. Bid documents for local competitive bidding under the project
should specify:
(a) The criteria for evaluating bids should be clearly set out
in the bid documents and should specify that award will be
made to the lowest evaluated bidder;
(b) bids should be accompanied by a bid security, or bid bond;
(c) all bids should be opened in public and bidders'
representatives allowed to attend; and
(d) successful bidders snould be required to submit a
performance security on release of their bid security, or
bid bond.
WAPAB
September 1986



- 89 -
Annex 3-11
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule a/
IBRu           (8 Year Period)              Disbursements P-.-ofile in Z
FY and                               In       Nigeria      First Forestry
PY/CY      Semester   Semester   Cumulative   %    (Agriculture)          Project
1  (1987)  FY87 S2        4.0         4.0         6         0                0
FY88 Si        3.4        7.4        10          2                2
2  (1988)  FY88 S2        2.4         9.8        14         6                11
FY89 Si        3.0       12.8        18         12               20
3  (1989)  FY89 S2        3.4        16.2        23        20               28
FY90 Si        3.5       19.7        28         30               46
4  (1990)  FY90 S2        5.4        25.1        35        40                59
FY91 Si        5.5       30.6        43         50               69
5  (1991)  FY91 S2        8.2        38.8        55        59               80
FY92 SI        8.3       47.1        66         68               8'
6  (1992)  FY92 S2        6.4        53.5        75        77               90
FY93 S1        6.0       59.5        84         83               95
7  (1993)  FY93 S2        4.7        64.2        90        89               100
FY94 Si        4.3       68.5        97         93
8  (1994)  FY94 S2        1.5        70.0        99        97
FY95 S1        1.0       71.0       100         99
9  (1995)  FY95 S2                                        100
a/   Estimated Board Presentation:  7/86
Estimated Effectiveness:         3/87
Project Implementation Period: Scheduled
to begin 1/87 and conclude 12/94 = 8 yrs
WAPAB
Septeiber 1986



- 90 -
Annex 3-11
Page 2 of 3
NTGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
For FMP States, FORMEU and APCU
(US$ million)
Category            Forest Management Program States   AP States   FORMEU  Total
Benue    Kaduna   Ogun      Ondo    APCU
1. Civil Works           0.2       0.2       0.3      0.3      1.0        -       2.0
2. Vehicles, Equipment,  1.5       3.7       1.2       1.0    20.6        1.0    29.0
Materials, Furniture
and Spare Parts
3. Int'l Salaries,       0.3       0.5       0.1       0.1     4.5        1.5     7.0
Consultants and
Training
4. Wages                 2.0       3.5        1.5      1.5     6.5        -      15.0
5. Operational Costs     1.0       1.3       i.1      0.9      6.3        0.4    11.0
6. Unallocated           0.4       0.6       0.7       0.7     4.3        0.3     7.0
Total               5.4       9.8       4.9      4.5    43.2         3.2    71.0
WAPAB
September 1986



NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(AFFORESTATION & FOREST MANAGEMENT)
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
100-   ~~~SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                        , '
.. FIRST FORESTRY PROJECT
8e v
w
z40                       oa
36-
20-
10                                                                                      Ph
PYI      PY2      PY3      PY4      PY5      PYS      PY7      PYS      PYg        W
FY87 THRU FY95
WASA1
Septemlbr 1Iooo



-92 -                              Annex 3-12
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Special Accounts No.2
An amount equal to US$3.5 million (N3.5 million), financed as an
advance from the Bank loan, vould be deposited in Special Bank Accounts,
designated Project Bank Account No. 2, 1/ as follows:
(US$)
AZAPCU              2,250,000
FORMECU               250,000
Kaduna                250,000
Benue                 250,000
Ogun                  250,000
Ondo                  250,000
Total          3,500,000
Each of the above units would use Special Account No. 2 to
finance incremental expenditures eligible for reimbursement, and would be
replenished against certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Each SOE
would include proper certification such as engineering certificates for
civil works noting the quantity and value of the work performed, invoices
for goods and services, payroll vouchers for daily wages, log records for
vehicle and plant operating expenses, etc.
The disbursement application requesting replenishment would be
supported by: (a) copies of the SOEs (the supporting evidence would be
retained in the project for review by supervision missions and the
project's auditors); (b) a statement of transactions on the spccial Account
No. 2 certified by the commercial bank; and (c) a reconciliation of
withdrawals and deposits with statements of permitted expenditures and IBRD
disbursements certified by the Project Unit Manager and Financial
Controller/Chief Accountant that IBRD procurement guidelines and procedures
had been complied with.
Any disbursements made from this account which are not acceptable
to IBRD would be met by FPG (FORMECU and APCU) or the state governments
(Benue, Ogun, Ondo, Kaduna) depositing a corresponding amount in Account
No. 1.
WAPAB
September 1986



93 ~ -Annex 3- 13
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Afforestation Program
Shelterbelt Production Schadule
Pn        Fuelvood         Poles         Total
10          2.75            2.75          5.50
11          3.13            3.13          6.26
12          8.00            6.74         14.74
13          8.89            7.42         16.31
14         13.60           13.30         26.90
15         12.82           12.61         25.43
16         11.30           11.70         23.00
17         14.10           15.49         29.59
18         14.19           21.28         35.47
19         14.38           21.05         35.43
20         12.80           19.54         32.34
21         13.26           20.43         33.69
22         18.68           30.08         48.76
23         12.94           22.18         35.12
24         12.79           19.19         31.98
25         13.78           20.66         34.44
26         17.08           25.61         42.69
27         17.06           23.18         40.24
28         10.50           13.00         23.50
29         12.67           15.37         28.04
30         16.56           20.87         37.43
31         14.94           18.48         33.42
32         14.67           17.09         31.76
33         10.89           13.57         24.46
34         15.99           20.32         36.31
35         14.74           18.48         33.22
332.51         433.52         766.03
Assumptions:
(i)  1,700 km established PT 2-7:
215, 245, 325, 350, 350, 215.
(ii)  401 Eucalyptus : 24 m/lkm/yr.
601 Neem       :  15m3/km/yr.
(Ili)  331 of stems harvested at ages:
- 8, 12. 16 for Eucalyptus; giving
50/50, 40/60, 30/70 fuelvood: poles.
- 10,15, 20 for Neem, giving
60/40, 50/50, 40/60 fuelvood: pules.
(iv) Subsequent coppice harvests of 33Z of stems every
12 years for Eucalyptus and 15 years for Neem.
WAPA B
September 1986



- 94 -
Amma 3-13
Page 2 of i
SeCORD FORESTR   RJC
AFFORESTAnON PROM
Farm Forxstry Pgoduetonu aJ
(Kano, Kaduna. Sokoto, Bauchi and Borno States)
Fulvood
From               Fruit
FT        F3Lv23d        Pole-,      oddsr TSa       me          Cashew
('ooow( '000 Fruit) ('000 Fruit)
7                                                                  54.4
8                                                                  163.1
9                                                                  326.3
10          0.32          0.32                       21.75         598.1
11          0.98          0.98                       62.25         870.0
12          1.96          1.96                      130.50        1,087.5
13          3.58          3.58          1.16        239.25        1,087.5
14          5.22          5.22          3.48        348.00       1,087.5
1S          6.53          6.53          6.96        435.00       1087.5
16          6.53          6.53          12.76       435.00       1.087.5
17          6.53          6.53          18.56       435.00        1,087.5
18          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00       1,087.5
19          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00       1.087.5
20          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
21          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1.087.5
22          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
Z3          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
24          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
25          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1.087.5
26          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
27          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
28          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
29          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
30          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1.087.5
31          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1.087.5
32          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1.087.5
33          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1.087.5
34          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
35          6.53          6.53          23.20       435.00        1,087.5
149.19        149.02         460.52     9,936.08      28.111.9
a/ Produ.tiot Assuptions;
(i) 29 million *eedlFg8 planted years 2-7:
5s. 1o02 152. 252. 252, 202.
(11) Species distrIbution: 202 fualvood
502 fuelvood/fodder
152 mango
152 cashew
(iii)  Survival:                 fuelvood         302
fuelwood/fodder  402
fruit trees      50S
(iv) Production:
fuelwood:        trees Mhrvested annually after 8 years -
0.0 m /tree.
fuelvood/fodder: trees lopped annually after 10 years -
0. 004u /tree/year.
mango:           200 fruits/tree annually after 8 years.
cashev:          500 fruits/tree annually after 5 years.
wAPAB
September 1986



- 95 -                        Annex 3-13
Page 3 of 4
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Afforestation Project
Farm Forestry Production a/
Plateau State
Py                 Fuelvood                  Poles           Total
'OOO.3                 'OOOm3            'OOOm
4                    0.4                     0.1              0.5
5                    0.8                     0.1              0.9
6                    3.0                     0.9              3.9
7                    7.1                     2.3              9.4
8                   15.0                     5.6             20.6
9                   26.5                    10.5             37.0
10                   42.5                    17.6             60.1
11                   62.1                   26.5              88.6
12                   76.9                    34.5            111.4
13                   96.3                   43.2             139.5
14                   97.0                   43.6             140.6
15                   98.3                   44.5             142.8
16                   92.3                   40.5             132.8
17                   93.5                   41.3             134.8
18                   95.2                   42.4             137.6
19                   93.9                   41.6             135.5
20                   95.5                    42.6            138.1
21                   96.1                    43.0            139.1
22                   95.8                    43.2            139.0
23                   87.5                    38.3            125.8
24                   82.4                    36.4            118.8
25                   73.5                    32.9            106.4
26                   57.4                    25.7             83.1
27                   40.7                    18.7             59.4
28                   23.1                    11.2             34.3
29                    5.4                     3.6              9.0
30 
Total             1,558.2                   690.8          2,249.0
a/
Production Assumptions
(i)   seedlings produced FYI to PY8 in millions: 0.5, 0.75, 1.25.
1.75, 2.25, 2.75, 2.75, 2.75.
(ii) surviving seedlings planted by farmers PYL to FYB -
in percent : 30, 40. 50, 60, 65, 65, 65, 65.
- in millions 0.15, 0.3, 0.63, 1.05, 1.5, 1.8, 1.8, I.8.
(iii) 30Z of seedlings estimated to be used in woodlots and 70% planted
as single trees.
- for woodlots in FYI - PY8 million seedlings: 0.05. 0.09, 0.19, 0.32.
0.45, 0.54, 0.54. 0.54.
- as single trees, in PY1 - FnB million seedlings 0.10, 0.21, 0.44, 0.73,
1.05, 1.26, 1.26, 1.26.
(iv) spacing in woodlots 1.5 x 1.5 m resulting in the following area
planted PYI - PY6 in ha.: 11, 20, 43, 72,3101, 122, 122 and 122.
- mean annual increment of woodlots 17.9m .
(v)   yield of single trees 0.015 m3 in average per year througp 20 years.
WAPAB
September 1986



-96-                               Annex 3-1'
NIGERIA                            Page 4 of 4
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
FOREST MIANAGEMET PROGRAM
(000, m)
EXISTING AND NEW PLANTATION PRODUCTION
p_        Fuelvood  Sma1l Poles Electric Poles  Sawloga         Total
1            1.6         9.1          -            -             10.7
2            2.9        15.1          -            -             18.0
3            4.2        17.3          0.2          -             21.7
4            6.0        27.5          0.3          -             33.8
5            5.3        26.1          0.3          -             31.7
6            4.7        19.3          0.3          -             24.3
7            4.9        20.4          0.3          -             25.6
8            6.4        25.5          1.0          -             32.9
9            5.1        20.0          1.0          -             26.1
10            8.5        32.9          1.9          -             43.3
11            4.2        16.6          0.9          -             21.7
12            3.2        13.3          0.7          -             17.2
13            4.4        21.5          4.0          -             29.9
14            0.5        14.8          -            -             15.3
15            9.2        13.2          3.5          3.5           29.4
16            0.5         4.3          -            0.1            4.9
17            8.7        28.9         13.7          8.2           59.5
18            7.5        25.3         11.7          7.0          51.5
19            0.6         4.3          0.3          0.1            5.3
20            9.5        11.7         20.6          6.7           48.5
21            0.9         4.3          0.9          -              6.1
22            0.9         4.2          0.9          -              6.0
23            9.5        18.6         18.1         17.8           64.0
24            0.7         2.8          0.6          -              4.1
25             -                       -            -
26            0.7    *    0.6          1.5          0.5            3.3
27            1.3          1.3         3.0          1.0            6.6
28            7.5         3.2         21.2         35.0           66.9
29          -38.2       -92.7        -25.6         17.0        -139.5
30            1.9         2.0          4.5          1.5            9.9
31          -30.5       -78.5        -10.3         23.0         -96.3
32            -           -            -            -              _
33            -           -            -            -              -
34            -           -            1.3          2.5            3.8
35            -           -            2.5          5.0            7.5
36          -4t.3      -117.3        -23.9         62.7         -126.8
37            -           -            3.8          7.5           11.3
38            -           -            3.8          7.5           11.3
39            -           -            2.5          5.0            7.5
40            -           -            -            -              _
41          -'7.1      -115.1        -47.1         92.9         -116.4
42            -           -            -            -              _
43            -           -            -            -              _
44            -           -            -            -              -
45            -           -            -            -              _
46            -           -            -            -              -
47            -           -            1.5         11.9           13.4
48            -           -            3.0         23.8           26.8
49            -           -            4.5         35.8           40.3
50            -           -            4.5         35.8          40.3
51            -           -            4.5         35.8          40.3
52            -           -            3.0         23.8           26.8
Total   515C3I1      691.3         39.5        471.4         468.5
Assuwtions:
This table is compiled from the projected outcome
of the proposed lavestments in Benue, Ogun, Ondo,
and Kaduna.                 Working Paper 3 contains
the estimated yields per state project.
WAPA 8
September 1986



-    -                           Annex 3-14
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
Second Forest    Project
Forest Management Program Cash Flow a/
(N Million)
INFLOWS                                   OUTFLr%WS
Disbursement of                                                          Net  Cumu-
IBRD Loan F(G &                                  d                     Annual  lative
State Govt. b                     Cash    Project-/ Debtef   Total    Cash   Cash
PY     Co-;ributions-/     Revenues-   Inflow    Costs    Service Outflow   Flow   Flow
1           6.4              0.5        6.9       6.4       0.1       6.5      0.4     0.4
2           3.6              0.8        4.4       3.6        0.3      3.9      0.5     3.9
3           3.5              0.9        4.4       3.5       0.5       4.0      0.4      1.3
4           5.2               1.4       6.6       5.2        0.8      6.0      0.6      1.9
5           7.3               1.0       8.3       7.3        1.3      8.6     (0.3)    1.6
6           4.5               1.0       5.5       4.5        1.4      5.9     (0.4)    1.2
7           4.3               1.4       5.7       4.3        1.7      5.0     (0.3)    0.9
8           3.6               1.6       5.2       3.6        3.0      6.6     (1.4)   (0.5)
9                             2.5       2.5       0.8        3.4      4.2     (1.7)   (2.2)
10                            3.3        3.3       0.6       3.3       3.9     (0.6)   (2.8)
11                            3.2        3.2       0.6       3.1       3.7     (0.5)   (3.3)
12                            3.2        3.2       0.5       3.0       3.5     (0.3)   (3.6)
13                            3.7        3.7       0.4       2.8       3.2      0.5    (3.1)
14                            5.3        5.3       0.4       2.6       3.0      2.3    (0.8)
15                            7.7        7.7       0.4       2.5       2.9      4.8     4.0
16                            5.5        5.5       0.4       2.4       2.8      2.7     6.7
17                            6.9        6.9       0.4       2.2       2.6      4.3    11.0
18                            6.9        6.9       0.4       2.0       2.4      4.5    15.5
19                            4.8        4.8       0.4       1.9       2.3      2.5    18.0
20                             6.7       6.7       0.3        1.8      2.1      4.6    22.6
Average PY 21-30               2.0       2.0       0.2         0       0.2      1.8    40.6 by PY30
Average PY 31-52               3.0       3.0       0.1         0       0.1      2.9   104.6 by PY52
a/     For FMP in Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo States.
'W     Based on Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedules.
cl/    Based on sales of fuelwood, poles, electric poles and sawlogs (Working Papers
3 and 4).
dt     Project costs including taxes and contingencies PYI-8; estimated recurrent
costs thereafter.
e/     Based on IBRD loan at 10, repayable in 20 years with 5 years grace.
WAPAB
September 1986



-98 -                            Annex 3-14
Page 2 of 2
NIGERIA
SECOND PORESTRY PROJECT
EMG Cash Flow (1987-99)
(N million)
OUTFLOWS                   INFLOWS           TOTAL
PFG contributions         FHG debt         Payments rece-
to project a/             service on       ived from on-
PY/CY            __IB    loan b/                             lending c/
1  87                 4.0                     0.4               0.1               (4.3)
2  88                 4.0                      0.6              0.3               (4.3)
3  89                 4.0                      1.5              0.5               (5.0)
4  90                 4.0                      2.7              0.8               (5.9)
5  91                  3.0                    4.0               1.3               (5.7)
6  92                 3.0                      7.8              1.4               (9.4)
7  93                  3.0                    8.5               1.7               (9.8)
8  94                  2.7                     9.7              3.0               (9.4)
9  95                                         10.4              3.4               (7.0)
10  96                                          9.6              3.3               (6.3)
11  97                                         8.5               3.1               (5.4)
12  98                                         8.1               3.0               (5.1)
13  99                                          7.4              2.8               (4.6)
TOTAL                  27.7                    79.2             24.7              (82.2)
a/ From Annex 3-9, page 1.
b/ Based on IBRD loan at IOZ, repayable in 20 years with 5 years of grace
and assuming an exchange rate of Nl - US$1.
c/ From Annex 3-14, page 1.
WAPAB
September 1986



- 99 -
Annex 3-15
Page 1 of 7
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
AFFORESTATION PROGRAM (AP)
Economic Justification: Cost-Benefit Calculations
(i) Zones 1 and 2 (Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Kano and Sokoto States)
Cost
1.       Financial costs have been converted into economic costs in the
standard way (a) by estimating the tradable components in border prices
directly (May 1985 figures at N1.0 = US$ 1.0) and (b) by converting the
non-tradables into border prices using conversion factors. For
non-tradables such as land and manual labor (which are the principal non
tradable inputs in the project) a local conversion factor of 0.3 was used
based on the value of the output of traditional agriculture (mainly sorghum
and millet) in border prices. For all other non-tradables (mainly poles
and local professional labor) the standard conversion factor (which equals
0.35) was used. Apart from these adjustments, the cost components are
identical to those used for the financial analysis (in real prices), with
three exceptions: (i) Roughly 90% of the costs of the Coordinating Unit are
to be incurred for scientific, social and economic research, and for the
preparation of a long term plan; they have therefore not been included in
the economic costs because the benefits of this work would occur in future
shelterbelt and agro-forestry programs, rather than in the programs
presently being appraised. The costs so excluded amount to about 15Z of
the project costs. (ii) The land occupied by the shelterbelts has been
costed at its economic value rather than in terms of compensation paid by
the State Governments. (iii) The economic costs to farmers of planting and
protecting the seedlings have been included (t'Ve financial analysis
excludes them); they add about 30% to the economic costs of the project.
The present worths of the economic costs are shown in Table 1.
Benefits: Basis of Estimates
2.        The benefits are broken down into three main components:
(a) the value of the tree products themselves - firewood, poles and
fruit. (Fodder is counted under (c));
(b) the positive effects of the tree planting programs on soil
fertility arising from improved moisture retention and nutrient
recycling. These benefits are estimated from the incremental
value of enhanced crop yields; and



Annex 3-15
- 100 -                                   Page 2 of 7
(c) the positive effects on livestock activities arising from the
extra dry season fodder being made available by the increase in
crop residues (associated with (b)) and the planting of fodder
trees and shrubs.
3.        A fourth benefit could be added - the prevention of further
decline in the carrying capacity of the soils (known as the prevention of
desertification), but this benefit is by far the most uncertain and
difficult to quantify. This is because there is little scientific data
available on actual changes taking place in soil fertility (such data would
be collected under the project) and on the socio-economic variables that
explain the underlying causes. While it is possible that desertification
would occur without the project's interventions, at what rate and over what
time is at present impossible to determine. By not quantifying this
benefit in the base case, the project's economic analysis is likely to be
erring on the conservative side.
4.        Given such uncertainties and analytical difficulties, however,
the only practical course was to concentrate first on what are the better
understood and better documented benefits noted above - the positive
effects of afforestation programs on wood production, on cropping and on
livestock activities. As will be seen, these benefits alone are sufficient
to justify the project economically. With respect to shelterbelts, this
conclusion is consistent with the findings ex post of shelterbelt plantings
in many other countries; with respect to farm-forestry, it is contingent on
securing a good farmer response to the program, as discussed more fully
below. However, given the ecological changes taking place in the region,
this course leads to an under-estimate of the returns. For this reason,
and also to focus attention on the ecological issues, the sensitivity
analysis also includes a rough estimate of what are termed desertification
prevention benefits based, as noted, on the net present worth of cropping
and livestock activities protected. The results of an alternative analytic
model based on "with" and "without" project scenarios are also presented.
This analysis yields an ERR similar to that from the quantification of the
three main benefits listed above.
Shelterbelts
5.        Numerous studies of shelterbelts have shown that crop yields are
significantly improved in the sheltered areas through improvements in soil
nutrient and moisture content, the latter being achieved through a
reduction in surface wind velocities (and thus of surface evaporation).
After allowing for the effects of shade, and the use of land, water and
nutrients by the trees themselves, the conclusion is widely accepted that
shelterbelts can be expected to have a 20 + 5Z effect on crop yields, the



Annex 3-15
-101-                                    Page 3 of 7
figures used in this SAR. 1/ Further, it has been found that in dry years,
the effects of the trees on soil moisture retention is more vital, with the
effects on yields being appreciably higher than the figures just quoted.
6.        Such increases in yields are also expected to improve on
livestock production because the increases in crop residues increase the
availability of dry season fodder; e.g., one hectare of traditional crops
produces about 700 kg of leaves and 900 kg of stalks suitable for fodder, a
total of 1600 kg. Assuming 50% of the stalks are used for dwellings and
fences, a 20% increase in yields produces about 300 kg of additional
fodder, a figure that could be raised to 400 kg through the planting of
fodder trees and shrubs by farmers between the belts; this increment is
sufficient to support about a quarter of a tropical livestock unit (one TLU
= one cow or 5 goats) in the dry season.
7.        The results of the cost benefit calculations are presented in
Tables 1 and 2, and in sum are as follows (figures in N million):
Item                                           Low Case   Base Case High Case
Cost                                             4.8        4.4        4.4
Benefits:
-crop yield effects                              2.7        3.6        4.5
-livestock effects                               1.2         1.6       2.0
-wood                                            2.2        2.2        2.2
6.1        7.4       8.7
Net Present Value of Benefits
(10% discount rate)                            1.3        3.0       4.3
Economic Rate of Return, Z                      11%        13%        14%
The assumptions behind the calculations are discussed more fully in Working
Paper 5. In brief: the crop yields to which the incremental effects apply
relate to traditional agriculture, which currently yields about N
140/ha/year in border prices; income from livestock activities is estimated
to be N60(ha/year; the net income of farm activities is taken to be 15% of
gross income; to allow for agricultural development in the region, a slow
growth of yields is also assumed, amounting to 3% per year beginning in
about 15 years time; the wood benefits are based on the production
schedules shown in Annex 3-13, with fuelwood being priced at its kerosene
equivalent value at N25/cubic meter, and poles in border prices of
N20/cubic meter; the shelterbelt failure rate is taken to be 20%.
l1 W.P. 5 summarizes the results from over 180 field studies in 15
countries.



Annex 3-15
102 -                                  Page 4 of 7
8.        The low case assumptions correspond to a 10Z increase in project
costs, while yield effects cover the 20% (± 5%) range noted above. The
wood benefits are kept the same throughout, since they were based on
conservative assumptions.
9.        On these assumptions, the shelterbelts have returns in the range
12-14%, with an expected value of 13%. This serves to emphasize the
importance of the shelterbelts in terms of their positive contribution to
output - from crops, livestock and of wood. These estimates are slightly
lower than those shown in Table 3 based on the analytical approach of
"with" and "without" the project which concluded that the expected ERR for
shelterbelts is 14%, and is within the range 13% to 15%. The reason for
the higher value is that the "with/without" approach assumes, more
realistically, a slow decline in soil fertility oner time until the
shelterbelts become established (in the 'without" project case, the slow
decline continues), a prospect which is not unlikely in the ecologically
threatened areas where the shelterbelts are to be located. With regard to
the possibilities of the ecological risks being yet greater than this, i.e.
of a yet more rapid decline in soil fertility, the calculations in Table 1
also include the desertification prevention benefits, noted above. This
raises the returns by one more percentage point to 15% with a range of 14
to 16%.
Farm Forestry
10.      As discussed in the main report and Annex 3-1, the farm forestry
approach to aforestation is intended to accomplish the same objectives as
shelterbelts by encouraging farm tree plantings. The essential difference
is that involvement of the farmers in planting trees both reduces the
public expenditure costs significantly and offers prospects, if the
response is good, of a considerable increase in afforestation rates.
11.      The main difficulties with estimating the benefits of farm
forestry are two-fold. First, there is a dearth of scientific information
on the effects of tree densities over farmlands on soil moisture and
nutrient content; the favorable ecological effects are not disputed, but
their precise magnitude is unknown. The difficulty of obtaining such
information is compounded by the point that it isn't sufficient to have
information on individual farms, but on tree densities over quite a large
area, because individual farmers obtain considerable protection from winds
and surface evaporation from their neighbors' trees. In fact, if only
isolated farms practice farm forestry, the benefits are likely to be small,
and it will be important for the project to secure a good response within
well defined areas, to be measured in terms of a high proportion of the
farms being involved. 2/ However, the point remains that there is no
2/  As discussed in Annex 3-1, one of the difficulties with the previous
(Footnote Continued)



- 103 -                                 Annex 3-15
Page 5 of 7
readily available scientific information on the effects of farm forestry
and local tree densities on soil moisture and nutrients. Second, as
variously discussed, the farmers' response to the program is uncertain and,
of course, the benefits will turn greatly on this.
12.       For these reasons, the benefit-cost caLculations first considered
the questions of what impact would the project have to have on yields in
order to justify the investment on a 10% rate of return basis, and is such
an impact feasible? The results presented in Table 2 show that only a 6 to
9% (say 5-10%) impact is required based on incremental production of crops,
livestock and wood, and 0% if the desertification prevention benefits are
included. It is generally agreed that, if a good farmer response is
obtained, a yield effect of about 10% or more is achievable.
13.       For completeness, the following is a summary of the results
presented in Tables 1 and 2, assuming a 10% yield effect, and concentrating
on the output-enhancement benefits only (figures are in N millions):
Item                                    Low Case          Base Case
Cost                                      15.2               13.7
Benefits:
-crop yeield effects                        9.2              11.5
-Livestock effects                         4.1                6.8
-wood and fruit                            2.7                3.6
11.0              21.9
Net Present Value of Benefits
(10X discount rate)                      0.8               8.2
Economic Rate of Return, %                 lZ               14%
The low case assumptions correspond to a three year lag in farmer response
and a 10% increase in costs. Both cases assume a 40% seedling survival
rate. A high case was not considered, given the risks and uncertainties
discussed above. The expected return is in the range 11 to 14%.
14.       As with shelterbelts, the analytic approach of the "with" and
"without" scenario was also applied to the problem as a cross-check. The
results were of the same order, but somewhat highe., giving an ERR 16% with
(Footnote Continued)
AZAP program supported by FGN was that it aimed at state-wide
distribution, and so diluted the program's impact.



- 104 -                                     Annex 3-15
Page 6Cof 7
a range of 15 to 18%, partly because a slow decline in soil fertility was
assumed (see Table 4), and partly because the possible lags in farmer
response and cost increases were not considered. The ERR of the present
analysis also rises to 14 to 16% if the desertification prevention benefits
are included.
15.       It must be emphasized once more that such benefits depend greatly
on a good response from farmers within defined areas; farmer response can
be measured directly in terms of numbers of seedlings planted and
surviving, about 10-15 farm trees per hectare being thought minimal. If
this is obtained, the ecological and economic benefits are not disputed,
their high value, in relation to costs, being partly explained by the loi
costs themselves; e.g. the overall investment in farm forestry on an
annualized basis is about $3.5/ha/year, or $2.5/ha/year, after the wood
benefits are netted out, which is very small in relation to the gross and
net values of cropping activities in the region, so that only small
output-enhancement benefits give good returns, even after -llowing for the
effects of discounting. It is, therefore, not the technological or
economic assumptions that are in doubt; it is in the various social and
economic factors affecting farmer response that the main risks lie. The
proposed project has been designed to provide for a better farmer response
to the farm forestry program than that which was experienced in the
previous AZAP program. The involvement of the agricultural extension
services and a regular monitoring of farmer response are now both
considered crucial. The previous AZAP program also had the goal of
state-wide coverage from the outset. This is now considered unrealistic,
and a more concentrated approach in defined areas, coverin6 1OZ of farm
families and 2.5% of the arid zone is more likelv to lay the foundations
for the implementation of a more substantial afforestation plan building on
the experiences gained ana the research and studies financed by the present
project.
(ii) Zone 3 (Plateau State)
16.       Costs.  Financial costs have been converted into economic costs
using the same assumptions for farm forestry ir. Zones 1 and 2 (para 1).
17.       Benefits.  Seedlings produced would increse from 0.5 million in
the first project year to 2.75 million as rrom the sixth year. It has been
estimated that the percentage of surviving seedlings would increase from
30% to 65Z as from the fifth project year. Seventy percent of the
seedlings are estimated to be planted as single trees or in lines -fhile 30Z
would be used for woodlots. Although fruit trees will be raised in the
nurseries, the majority of trees delivered to farmers are expected to be
Eucalyptus and the benefits have been calculated using Eucalyptus
camaldulensis as a model.
18.       Eucalyptus planted as single trees can produce a mean annual
Increment of 0.02 m per year on 3the Jos Plateau. However the more
conservative estimate of 0.015 m per year has been assumed in the
calculation of benefits. Woodlots would be established at close spacing



- 105 -                                       Annex 3-15
Page 7 of 7
(1.5 m x 1.5 a). The inputs used for establishment of one ha of Eucalypt
has been shown in Table 9. Based on the seedlings utilized for woodlots
and the proposed spacing au area of 613 ha would b5 established during the
project period. A mean annual increment of 17.9 m per ha per year has
been forecast of which 37% is estimated to be poles and 63% fuelvood.
19.       The ERR calculations for Zone 3 are provided in Table 5.
WAPAB
September 1986



- 106 -                             Annex 3-15
Table 1                             Table 1
Summary of Costs and Benefits.  Figures are            P
Present Values, N, millions, Border Prices (Nl-$i) Discounted at 10 Z
Low       Base      High
Quantity                                      Case      Case       Case
Economic Costs
Nurseries and Seedling Distribution           Base       5.6
Shelterbelts                                  Case      4.0        As
Training and Extension                        Plus       1.0       for
State Management                              1OZ       2.0        Base
Coordinating Unit                                        0.6
Sub-total, incl. 4Z Contingencies                 13.7
Farmer's Costs                                 5.0        5.0       5.0
Total Cost                                    20.0       18.7      18.7
Economic Benefits
A.  Prevention of Desertification:
-Shelterbelt Areas                        2.8       2.8        2.8
-Agro Forestry Areas                     18.0       18.0      18.0
-Sub-total                               20.8      20.8       20.8
B.   Enhancement of Output: Cropping Activities
-Shelterbelt Areas                         2.7      3.6        4.5
-Agro Forestry Areas                       9.2      11.5      11.5
-Sub-total                                11.9     15.1      16.0
C.   Enhancement of Output: Livestock Activities
-Shelterbelt Areas                        1.2       1.6        2.0
-Agro-Forestry Areas                      4.1       6.8        6.8
.3        8.4       8.8
D.   Enhancement of Output: Tree Products
-Shelterbelt Areas                        2.2       2.2        2.2
-Agro Forestry Areas                      2.7       3.6        3.6
-Sub-total                                4.9       5.8        5.8
Sub-total, B+C+D                              22.1      29.3       30.6
Total Benefits, A+B4C+D                       42.9      50.1       51.4
Various Meaures of Net Benefits
NPV of Benefits Minus Costs                   22.9       31.4      32.7
Benefit-Cost Ratio                             2.1        2.7       2.7
Economic Rate of Return, Z                    14         16        16
Measures of Net Benefits Excluding (A), above
NPV of Benefits Minus Costs                     1.9      10.6      11.8
Benefit-Cost Ratio                              1.1       1.6       1.6
Economic Rate of Return                        10        14        14
WAPA B
September 1986



- 107 -                     Annex 3-15
Table 2
Table 2                     Page 1 of 2
Summary of Costs and Benefits by Component (Shelterbelts
and Farm Forestry). Figures are Present Values
in N millions, Border Priced (N I - $1), Discounted at 10%
Low Case   Base Case   High Case
Shelterbelts 'including desertification
prevention benefits):
-Costs 11                                   4.8        4.4          4.4
-Benefits                                   8.9       10.2         11.5
-NPV                                        4.1        5.8          7.1
-B-C Ratio                                  1.9        2.3          2.6
-Rate of Return, Z                         14%        15%          16%
Agro-Forestry (including desertification
prevention benefits):
-Costs 1/                                  15.2       13.7         13.7
-Benefits                                  34.0       36.3         36.3
-NPV                                       18.8       22.6         22.6
-B-C Ratio                                  2.2        2.7          2.7
-Rate of Return, Z                         14%        16%          16%
Shelterbelts (excluding desertification
prevention benefits)
-Costs 1/                                   4.8        4.4          4.4
-Benefits                                   6.1        7.4          8.7
-iqPV                                       1.3        3.0          4.3
-B-C Ratio                                  1.3        1.7          2.0
-Rate of Return, Z                         llZ        13%          14%
Agro-Forestry (excluding desertification
prevention benefits)
-Costs 1/                                  15.2       13.7         13.7
-Benefits                                  16.0       21.9         21.9
-NPV                                        0.8        8.2          4.6
-B-C Ratio                                  1.1        1.6          1.3
-Rate of Return, %                         10%        13%          13%
Agro Forestry Turning Point Analysis:
Required Net Effect on Crop Yield to
Give a 10% Rate of Return 2/
-Including Desertification Prevention
Benefits                                 O% 3/      0% 3/        0% 3/
-Excluding Desertification Prevention
Benefits                                 9%         6%           6%
I/   Attributing 15% of the state management and coordinating unit costs to
the shelterbelts and 85% to farm-forestry.



Annex 3-15
- 108 -                     Table 2
Page 2 of 2
2/   The net effect allows for land taken out of production by trees.  This
is about 3% when the trees are fully mature. In the case of acacias,
the fertility of the land under the trees is actually increased
significantly.
3/   The theoretical figures are negative, meaning that, on the assumptions
of this case, no effect on yields is required to justify the
plantings.
WAPAB
September 1986



Annex 3-15
- 109 -                             Table 3
Page 1 of 2
Table 3
Afforestation Program (Zone 1)
Shelterbelt Cost and Benefit Streams,
N per hectare, in Border Prices 1,
Income With             Income              Net
Project             Without Project       Project      Discounted
Year       Gross        Net        Gross       Net       Impact       Values 2/
1            174         -6         200         30       -153.90      134.331
2            169         25         194         29         -3.78        2.882
3            164         25         188         28         -3.67        2.440
4            159         24         183         27         -3.56        2.066
5            154         23         177         27         -3.45        1.749
6            149         22         172         26         -3.35        1.481
7            145         22         167         25         -3.25        1.254
8            158         35         162         24         10.44        3.518
9            171         48         157         24         24.11        7.090
10          184          61         152         23         37.75        9.691
11          197          74         147         22         51.38       11.511
12          210          86         143         21         64.98       12.708
13          216          87         139         21         66.57       11.363
14          222          88         135         20         68.17       10.156
15          229          89         131         20         69.77        9.073
16          236          90         127         19         71.39        8.103
17          243          91         123         18         73.02        7.235
18          250          93         119         18         74.67        6.457
19          258          94         116         17         76.33        5.762
20          266          95         112         17         78.01        5.140
21           274         96         109         16         79.71        4.584
22          282          97         105         16         81.43        4.087
23           290         99         102         15         83.17        3.644
24          299         100          99         15         84.94        3.248
25          308         101          9 5        14         86.73        2.895
26          317         103          93         14         88.55        2.580
27          327         104          91         14         90.40        2.299
28          336         105          88         13         92.28        2.048
29          347         107          85         13         94.19        1.825
30          357         109          83         12         96.13        1.626
31-50                                                    1922.56        9.561
IRR          14.7%
Footnotes overleaf.



Annex 3-15
110 -                       Table 3
Page 2 of 2
11 This is an alternative analysis using the same ecological and economic
relationships as those used for the results presented in Tables 1 and
2. It was undertaken to cross-check the methodoloty used in the SAR
and serves to display the cost and benefit streams over time in a
familiar way. The slow decline of soil fertility over time (3% per
year) is an additional assumption. This case excludes the desertifi-
cation prevention benefits shown in Tables 1 and 2. Other assumptions:
Farm output, including livestock, in year 1 is 5200/ha, with net yield
being 15% of this; gross yield effect of shelterbelts is 25% (equi-
valent to net yield effect of about 20%); land occupied by shelterbelts
is 13% of areas; shelterbelt cost per hectare sheltered is N150;
agricultural yields rising at 3% per year (autonomous innovation) in
protected areas; net value of timber 125/cubic meter; land occupied by
shelterbelts is costed at its net value without the project; a saelter-
belt failure rate of 20%.
2/   At the IRR rate.
WAPAB
Sep tember 1986



Annex 3 -15
- 111 -                      Table 4
Table 4
Afforestation Program (Zones 1 and 2)
Farm Forestry Cost and Benefit Streams, N per hectare, Border Prices
Income With            Income             Net
Project            Without Project      Project    Discounted
Year       Gross       Net        Gross      Net       Impact      Values 1/
1           194         29         200        30       -30.90      26.450
2           192          29        198        30        -0.89       0.653
3           190          29        196        29        -0.88       0.553
4           188          28        194        29        -0.87       0.469
5           186          28        192        29        -0.86       0.397
6           184         28         190        29        -0.86       0.337
7           183          27        188        28        -0.85       0.285
8           181          27        186        28        -0.84       0.242
9           179          27        185        28        -0.83       0.205
10          177         27         183        27       -0.82        0.174
11          175         26         181        27        -0.81       0.147
12          174         26         179        27       -0.81        0.125
13          172         26         177        27        -0.80       0.106
14          170         26         176        26       -0.79        0.090
15          169         25         174        26        -0.78       0.076
16          182         39         172        26        12.85       1.067
17          195         52         170        26        26.48       1.882
18          209         65         169        25       40.10        2.440
19          222         79         167        25       53.73        2.799
20          235         92         165        25        67.35       3.003
21          242         93         164        25        68.66       2.620
22          250         94         162        24        69.99       2.286
23          257         95         160        24        71.36       1.995
24          265         97         159        24        72.76       1.741
25          273         98         157        24        74.19       1.520
26          281         99         156        23        75.65       1.327
27          290         100        154        23        77.15       1.158
28          298         102        152        23        78.68       1.011
29          307         103        151        23        80.25       0.883
30          316         104        149        22        81.86       0.0771
31-50                                                  1637.24      3.802
IRR        16.8%
Assumptions:  As for Table 3 but yield increment of lOZ, 3Z of land
occupied by trees, and a 1X annual decline in soil fertility until trees
are established.
1/   At the IRR rate.
WAPAB
September 1986



NI16RIA
sicwo  V         "5T*I  C
(PLAEAuU ZOE 32
COSTS Aim liwiissO@  NJAI.
1      2       3       4       5       6      7       I       *      to      It     52      is      54      is     I        7 1    is      1I     20      25     22      2
nlEoad  1t0los)                          -           7.56   13.77   29.61   49,57   00.52  104.53  121.12  162.63  112.27 143.7  156.26  13.1   71.10   12.l  123.0  50094 120,72  13.99  560o.0   62.4l
POLES                                    -       -    .07    1.      4.20    7.05   H5e"5  22.t7   3544   54.l7  60.2   7720  W.3   f6.01  3.1l   49,50   u3.01   52.17   69,2   75.1   O.d  34A.
FUElISy (SINGE  lIMB             -       -       -      -       *  25.20  78.12  189,00  372,9   37.5  M950  I2.60 11.12 1510,12 1590.12 1590,12 1510.12 1590.12 11012 1.U 1510.12 I54.92 1512.00
puES                                     -                           1 6.70   26.97   65.25  12,7N  220.11  212,73  421.5  54.797 54.9t 5.   5417  547              7  5t497  5Wt97  54,97  54027  522W
SUIDIAL KNEtIIS                      -      -        8,65 1s5.73  67.71  161.71  351.02  r2.,22 1021.43 1541,3 1164.51 2304 23n730 2414,07 22415 22077 236.26 2293.55 233693 2354,26 2351.2  2136047
COSTS
IfC I Cal                   943.20  990.40  2.40  6100  549.00  319.70  355.40  325.00   200  2.00  20,   250s.05.0              2MA.0  250.00      00  250.00  250,00  254.00  250.00  25.00 2so0,0250M00
fvW     IVINAUT 01            0.89   1.62    3.49   s,s    3.20    9.91   9.1    9.9i          *       -       .       .      .       .       .       .
foiU  S ITZillwiC  TREES)    5.52    38        o0l  129   1.1ll  22.3  229    223                  -               -           -          -                   -              -       -                      -
swITALM. CTS                545.91 995.64  u.o  6954  576,31  352.4  36.24  353.st             e 50025o.0  250,6  250e 250,06  250,A0  250.e0  256.00  250.60  250see   M.oN  2so.00  250.te  25s.06  250s00
El NWITS
NEl M3EIII                -545.95 -9,54 -63.10 -*2069 -50o,  -264.53 -226.53  -2.2  379.22  m.u 1291.65 534.5U  2110,04 2129,32  214407 1990.25 203.77 207.26 20u3.5  206.93 2104.26 2105.21  00,7
WAPAB
September 1986
o
I.,



MIHIKA
SCOND FOlSTlR 9OJECT
(PLATEA zm Si
COMs NO KWfTIO mIMiA
24      25     26      27      2       29   IN         52
MW','
LEL       (so ISS            l17   104,5   50.71   n.,50   97.50   97.50
PUs                          43094   56.31  43J35   53.4   52.X   M2.U
FUlEL   ISIL IMESI    1401.12 I217.14  fl4  1U1.04  317,52                       -
FolS                        463.72  420.21  2.       211.24  IO0.2
UIOTAi UICII               2010.57 17.73 1405.41I084.14  577.00  149,oN
COSTS
IIAECI COST                 210.00  250.00   100 00,0 0250.00   250 00250,00
IMMO  INUT(slouLor-
-  FMW  1UlS(XlLML  rIsESI                             
SUIIOIL COTSS               250.00  2so.0  250,00 250.00 21000  2s0e00  2so.00
KY wtisrs
MET KIEfiIS                1741571541731151.41  754,14  327.00 -100.14 -250.0I
.____  ,...   ...._._                        -      - - - -.- .-.-.-... .__.
Jnmwrv 14.  M11   14150                                                                                                                                                                       w
Inte l Rate  et o atur  nt 1t o  tfNo
saaaaagaOIaaaanaaae*#aamazs Gaz
tarat                               15.F9
WAPAB
September 1986
H
()a 



-114 -
Annex 3-16
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
FOREST MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Economic Analysis
General
1.        Period:  52 years including 7 years investment period.
Exchange Rate: US$1 = Naira 1
Cost Assumptions
2.        Costs are in 1985 constant terms and include all costs for
Kaduna, Benue, Ondo and Ogun States.
3.        SCF .35 is applied to financial costs for converting them to
economic costs.
4.        Costs include 5% physical contingencies on all but technical
assistance, consultancies and salaries.
Benefits Assumptions
5.        Production = volumes produced by species, by year, by age and by
plantation are given in the project working paper (Working Paper 3).
6.        Prices:  Economic prices in constant 1985 terms.  They are
derived for each product based on import/export parity prices after
adjusting for economic cost of domestic transport, handling, milling and
felling to give values at the stump. The following standard converstion
factors were applied:
Handling             .35
Transport            .42
Milling              .39
Felling          )
Cross Cutting and)  .39
extraction to
roadside
WAPAB
September 1986



SECOND FORSCTRY TrOAECr
Industrial Plantations Proprim
COSTS MD SENEF1IISOO NAIRA)
1       2        3        4        5        6       7        8                  10        22I       12        2 3       24        2 5      26        1 7       tS        19        20        21        22
A. TOtAL COSTS
rOJAL COSTS              33.2.50 1352.60 1436.50 1949.70 3220.30 2435.90 2109.90 1239.00   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   351.30   357.30   351.30
P. TOTAL ICAiEFITS
TOTAL, LENEPIIC           357.40  529.56  688.60 1003.83  760.36  686.2?  964.44 2344.07  1934.2?  2327.0?  2975.50  3024.50  3845.81  4771.62  9329.77  5732.88  7937.91  7663.94  4760.23  3460.1K  2713.03  4824.95
C. ToTAL NHT BrENrITS
TOTAL NEI BENEFITS       3004.10  823.04  747,90  945.07 L451,94 2747,61 2145.46 -105.07  1596.79 -2161.7?  2618.20 -2667.20 -3489,32 -4414.32 -7972.47  5175.58 -7580.61  7306.54 -4402.83 -5203.58 -2355.73 -4467.60
WAPAD
September  1986                                                                                                                                                                                                                   '5
0 La
0~



N16(RIA
gram FO9RV6R mtocr
Industrial Plantations Program
COOtS AN) KwFJruwo0o NEAIAJ
23      24      25       26       27       21      29       30       33  32-33         34        35      36  37-38         39      40       41342-46         47       U6   49-Il 
A. rurAL. COSrS
TOTAL. COSTS            35?.30 357.30  357.30   357.30   £57.30   357.30  357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30   357.30    101.00  101.00   301.00   101.00  101.00   105.00  301.00   101.00   101.00   101.00         OJ
I.tOFAL StNU3TO
TOTAL OtNEFIlS         6047,79  3315.75  319.06  3536.32  6539.34  9915.34  95.41  5148.97  2829.39  M90M6  3702.90  10317.94  471.331M 22114 594.43  667.26 -37'&005             - 2877*1S  5436  6631.57         51.
C. TOTAL KET KnrFiTs
TOTAL MET MumE1       -5690.49  473.05  476.36  1379.02 -63112.04 -9551.04 13332.13 -4791.67 -2472.09 -254.38 -3345.60 -30416.04 -370.33 -7290.64 -1493.41 -561.26  382.05  103.00 -2776.13 -SM5.36 -W0.57    -.
Iinternal Rates of Return of Not StreaAS
W#0t              3~~~~6.761
WAPA,B
September 1986



N    G  E   R         N I  G  E   R
N   -                      -~~~AN  -BON
,-, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 4
S    J       KADIUNAAUN 
B E N I N                                                                    8 A U C;i~~~~~~~~~~ I  N
F ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NIR"HAD
N I G-f.? R   .......~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~VEETTONZOE
CAPIrAL                 PLATEAU~~~~~~~CrOC  ZO40TEITISOFZNE  ~    J"'   '.
NOITGBERR9I5



l e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  I G  E R        
\                               .S-.    .5 __ ___E____
N, I  G        E   R.                                                                                                                                                                                                  M    O\.
t ; g 0t _g0-  ' '@ = !5 _>,, xUtDt56=< /<J '~ )/  SECOND FORESTRY
r ; 2 _1 y i . i--_ ) Nvi M Kutot / / vI PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f ,OO,,1 bO~,~~AChTi
/V~~~~~~~
t AEEO<f7;X-;  <;,      A. .   O j         '-                                         'N   A
(<= [ <_ r / %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. P A ~~~~~~~~~of                                                                               *lg l       n fOf f tTo 00  000t
DECEMBER OO85



