Document nf
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ott'. 9?6 o_L/iZ
Repor No. P-4397-UNI
REPORT AND RECONNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$71 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
September 29, 1986
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
thei official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witot World Bank authorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Naira (N)
Calendar
Year 1984    June 1985   SAR
Estimates
US$                 Naira 0.7,       NO.89       N1.00
N              =       US$1.30    US$1.12      US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated all weights and measures used in this report are
metric.
1 metric ton (m ton)     =    2,205 pounds
I hectare (ha)           =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         -    0.62 miles
1 meter (m)              =    3.28 feet
I millimeter (mm         =    0.04 inches
1 cubic meter (m )       =    35.30 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB      -         African Development Bank
ADP       -         Agricultural Development Project
AP        -         Afforestation Program
APCU      -         Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit
FARA      -         Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency
FDF       -         Federal Department of Forestry
FMAWRRD   -         Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water
Resources and Rural Development
FMG       -         Federal Military Government
FMP       -         Forest Management Program
FORMECU   -         Forestry Management, Evaluation and
Coordinating Unit
FRIN      -         Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria
MAI       -         Mean Annual Increment
SFD       -         State Forestry Department
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Beneficiaries:        Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and
Rural Development and nine State Governments
(Bauchi, Benue, Borno, Kaduna, Kano, Ogun, Ondo,
Plateau and Sokoto).
Loan Amount:          US$71 million equivalent.
Terms:                Payable over 20 years, including five years of
grace, at standard variable interest rates.
Relending Terms:      The Federal Government (FMG) would on-lend US$5.4
million (mn) to Benue State, US$9.8 in to Kaduna
State, US$4.9 mn to Ogun State and USS4.5 in tc
Ondo State, on the same terms as the Bank loan, for
plantation management and development; the states
would carry the foreign exchange risk. The remaining
loan funds (US$46.4 mn) would be passed as grants to
the states participating in the afforestation program
(US$35.5 mn) and used by FMG for program management,
studies and training (US$10.9 mn).
Project Description:  The project would support the efforts of the Federal
and State Governments to: (1) strengthen
the structural base of the sector through improved
policies, revenue collection systems, training and
research; (2) stabilize soil conditions in threatened
areas and improve the supply of fuelwood, poles and
fodder by supporting farm forestry and shelterbelt
activities; and (3) increase the supply of
industrial wood by improving the management of
existing, high-priority plantations and by
establishing new plantations. Project activities
would include: (a) an afforestation program which
would include the supply of 41 million seedlings
through farm forestry activities, covering an
estimated 750,000 ha, and the establishment
of 1,700 km of shelterbelts protecting an estimated
34,000 ha; (b) a forest management program which
would include improved management of about 37,600 ha
of existing plantations, and establishment of
3,150 ha of new plantations; and Cc) assistance for
management, training, policy analysis, research, and
studies.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign        Total
----US  N million         …
A.   Afforestation Program:
1.  Farm Forestry                    13.4         9.2          22.6
2.  Shelterbelts                      8.6          4.0          12.6
Sub-total: a/                    22.0        13.2          35.2
B.   Forest Management Program:
1.  Existing Plantations              8.0         4.6          12.6
2.  New Plantations                   5.5          6.9          12.4
Sub-total:                       13.5        11.5          25.0
C.   Program Management, Training,         5.1          6.4          11.5
Policy Analysis, Research
and Studies
Total Base Costs:                    40.6         31.2          71.8
Physical Contingencies:               2.3          2.6           4.9
Price Contingencies:                 26.4          7.6          34.0
Total Project Costs: b/              69.3         41.4         110.7
Financing Plan
IBRD                                  29.6          41.4          71.0
Federal Government                    27.7           -            27.7
State Governments                     12.0           -            12.0
Total                                 69.3          41.4         110.7
Estimated Disbursements: FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95
---- ---- US$ million
Annual                 4.0  5.8   6.4  8.9 13.7 14.7 10.7  5.8  1.0
Cumulative             4.0  9.8  16.2 25.1 38.8 53.5 64.2 70.0 71.0
a/ Farmers would contribute an additional US$6.1 million in man-days
of labor and materials to the farm forestry component.
b/ Of which US$2.6 mn is duties and taxes.



- iii -
Benefits and Risks:   The project's afforestation component, comprising
investments in shelterbelts and farm forestry, would
stabilize soil conditions and enhance soil moisture
and nutrient content, benefitting agricultural
productivity; it also would increase the supply of
fuelwood, poles, fruit and fodder. The forest
management component would improve the management of
existing plantations and help establish new
plantations, increasing the availability of
industrial timber. The support for management,
training, policy initiatives, research and studies
would greatly strengthen the structural base of the
sector. The principal risks include smallholder
acceptance of the farm forestry program, and the
ability of the Federal and State Governments to
provide their share of funding.  Th. extension,
monitoring and research programs have been carefully
designed to limit the risk of failure of the farm
forestry program. The project has been designed to
minimize the annual funding requirement of the
Federal and State Governments.
Economic Rate of Return: Afforestation Program            15 percent
Forest Management Program      17 percent
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5915-UNI
Map:  19355



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
L.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a
proposed loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of
US$71 million to help finance a second forestry project. The loan would
be repayable over 20 years, including five years grace, with interest at
the standard variable rate. The Federal Government would on-lend US$5.4
million (mn) to Benue State, US$9.8 mn to Kaduna State, US$4.9 mn to
Ogun State and US$4.5 mn to Ondo State, on the same terms as the Bank
loan for plantation management and development; the states would carry
the foreign exchange risk. The remaining loan funds (US$46.4 mn) would
be passed as grants to the states participating in the afforestation
program (US$35.5 mn) and used by the Federal Military Government (FMG)
for program management, studies, training, and technical assistance
(US$10.9 mn).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The following assessment of the Nigerian economic situation is
based on the findings of an economic mission that visited Nigeria in
March-April 1985, continued economic reporting of the Resident Mission
in Lagos, a review of the 1986 budget and a mission in April-May 1986
that assisted T-.e Government in drawing up its proposed structural
adjustment program. Annex I presents selected social and economic
indicators for Nigeria.
A. Structural Legacy of the Oil Boom (1973-80)
3.        Export revenues grew rapidly during 1973-80 as the buoyant oil
market radically altered Nigeria's resource position. The revenue
increases largely accrued to the Government and were used to finance
commensurate increases in public spending. The magnitude and
composition of the increase in domestic resources preempted by che
public sector over this period entailed major changes in the underlying
structure of the economy. Coupled with a package of complementary
exchange rate1 import, and pricing policies, these changes increased the
economy's dependence on oil revenues and made it highly vulnerable to a
downturn in that market.
4.         Designed partly to heal the wounds of the civil war that had
ended in 1969, the increases in public spending supported an ambitious
public investment program intended to translate rising oil revenues into
infrastructure and productive capacity that would serve as the basis for
diversified growth and development. Significant gains were scored over
the period in both economic and social infrastructure. Transport



-2-
infrastructure, particularly roads and ports, expanded considerably, and
educational opportunities spread rapidly; witness the doubling of the
primary school enrollment ratio, which had been about 35 percent at the
beginning of the 1970e. These successes notwithstanding, many public
investment projects had been undertaken without sufficient attention,
either to their economic viability or to the capacity of government
agencies and public enterprises to implement them. By 1980, public
investment, representing over half of total investment, absorbed some 15
percent of GDP and covered a wide range of activities.
5.        The rapid growth of the public sector -- and the construction
boom that accompanied the massive public investment program -- altered
the prevailing pattern of relative prices and wages and set in train
changes in the underlying structure of the economy. High rates of wage
and price inflation in the non-traded goods sectors, while securing the
resources needed by these sectors to accommodate the expansion in demand,
depressed the non-oil traded goods sector. Labor costs were boosted by
the need to match wage offers in the construction and service sectors,
but export prices were effectively capped by an exchange rate policy
which allowed the naira to appreciate with rising oil revenues. The
combination of rising domestic costs and the appreciation of the naira
meant a sharp deterioration in international competitiveness. The impact
of these policies on the agricultural sector -- the major source of GDP
and export revenues before the oil boom -- was particularly severe: by
1980 its share in non-oil GDP had fallen to 30 percent, from around 50
percent in the early 1970s. While non-oil exports stagnated, a
protective import regime, based on a system of licenses and quantitative
controls, was used to insulate domestic industries from foreign
competition. This encouraged the growth of import-based consumer goods
industries which contributed little to domestic value added.
B. Economic Crisis (1981-85)
6.        Throughout the 1970s budgetary expenditures had more than kept
pace with the rapidly rising revenues from oil. Indeed, a small deficit
persisted even in 1980, despite the spectacular rise in oil earnings
that year. Accordingly, as oil revenues fell away in tne following
years -- to one half their 1980 level in 1983 -- the budgetary position
became increasingly unsustainable. Partly because the downturn was
expected to be short-lived, the Federal and State Governments reacted
slowly to the drop in oil revenues. And by 1983, sizeable external and
fiscal imbalances had emerged -- with the current account deficit
reaching 6 percent of GDP and the fiscal deficit fully twice that
financed by public sector borrowing, a rundown of international
reserves, and a large-scale accumulation of arrears on external trade
payments. At the same time, the Government continued to follow an
exchange rate policy geared to appreciation in order to damp domestic
inflationary pressures. Notwithstanding the 27 percent depreciation vis
a vis the US dollar between December 1980 and December 1983, the naira
posted a 12 percent appreciation in nominal effective terms over the
same period. In real terms the appreciation approached 50 percent.



-3-
7.        The authorities began to implement measures to redress these
deficits in 1984. Budgetary expenditures were slashed and
administrative controls over imports were tightened. Fiscal austerity
was characterized by across-the-board cuts, in many cases without taking
account rf the relative priorities of different types of expenditure or
the stage of completion of projects. Outlays on supplies, spare parts,
and routine maintenance were also generally cut back, even as
significant sums were set aside to support operating deficits of
inefficient parastatals and to provide heavy subsidies, particularly on
fertilizers. While steps were taken to improve the system of trade
taxes, controls on factory gate prices and other market interventions
continued to distort the structure of relative prices. Moreover, the
exchange rate was only belatedly allowed to depreciate beginning in
1985.
8.        Although the austerity measures were successful in bringing
about a rapid decrease in the fiscal and external deficits, their
bluntness exacted a considerable economic toll. Production and
employment in most sectors fell sharply. Even after allowing for the
slight recovery in 1985 resulting from increased oil production and
improved harvests, real GDP in 1985 was some 15 percent lower than at
the beginning of the 1980s. Construction and other service sectors were
particularly hard hit by the cutbacks in public expenditures, and
declined at an even faster rate than CDP. The much reduced supplies of
raw materials and spare parts to the import-dependent industrial sector
led to widespread plant closures, a substantial drop in capacity
utilization (at present about 35 to 40 percent) and extensive layoffs of
the work-force. Severe shortages of imported goods gave a sharp boost
to prices - with the inflation rate reaching 40 percent in 1984 -- with
scarcity rents of up to 400 percent for many essential goods accruing to
traders who, unlike manufacturers, were not subject to price controls.
9.        Domestic savings halved in real terms due to the decline in
both GDP and the terms of trade, with the savings ratio falling to 16
percent in 1985. The reduction in investment expenditures was also
substantial; investment fell to 12 percent of GDP irn 1985, under half
the peak level of 1981. The across-the-board public expenditure
cutbacks meant further delays in completing viable projects, thus
escalating their costs and depriving the economy of their benefits.
Private investment shrank even faster than public investment and by 1985
constituted only a quarter of the total. Between 1980 and 1985, real
income per bead fell bv about 35 percent, bringing it down to the level
prevailing just before the oil boom.
10.       External debt service requirements (including payments on
rescheduled arrears) increased to 34 percent of exports of goods and
non-factor services in 1985, a tripling since 1982. External medium and
long-term public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1985 of
US$12.8 billion included a total of US$1.3 billion in promissory notes
issued in respect to pre-1984 uninsured trade arrears and US$0.4 billion
in rescheduled Letters of Credit. In addition, recognized insured trade
arrears of US$2.3 bil ion were also outstanding, alonig with a further
estimated US$1.8 billion (including accumulated interest) in uninsured



- 4 -
trade arrears not yet recognized by the Government. Current Letters of
Credit were estimated at US$L.0 billion.
Policy Initiatives
11.       In the face of a weak oil market and the mounting debt service
burden, the new military Government that came into power in August 1985
recognized that demand management policies alone would be insufficient
to restore internal and external balance. It accordingly declared its
intent to move from "austerity alone to austerity with structural
adjustment" and to seek support from the international financial
community to ease the burden imposed by the unfavorable debt maturity profile.
A major policy breakthrough came with the new Government's 1986 budget.
Key reforms included the removal of the financial subsidy on energy
products and a commitment to phase out the fertilizer subsidy. In
addition, a temporary import surcharge of 30 percent across-the-board
was introduced to serve as an implicit devaluation on the import side,
and the foreign exchange retention allowance for non-oil exports was
raised to 25 percent.
C. Structural Adjustment Program 1/
12.       The sharp fall in oil prices in the first quarter of 1986
increased the urgency of reform. Recognizing this, the Government
formulated a structural adjustment program covering the period from
July 1986 to June 1988. The program, building on the Government's
earlier initiatives, is broadly based, combining exchange rate and trade
policy reforms with overall macroeconomic restraint. It also lays
considerable stress on shrinking the size of the public sector and
improving its efficiency as well as restructuring and diversifying the
productive base of the economy in order to reduce dependence on the oil
sector and on imports.
13.       The core of the program is the move towards a
market-determined exchange rate and the associated dismantling of import
controls. To this end, the Government has established a second-tier
foreign exchange market (SFEK), through which the bulk of current transactions
are to pass. This is being accompanied by progressive downward
adjustments of the official (first tier) rate, with the aim of reaching
a single market-determined exchange rate free of administrative controls
by end-June 1987. In conjunction with the opening of SFEl, the present
systems of import licensing and ex-factory price controls have been
abolished.  The Government is also introducing changes in the system of
protection under a package of export incentives. Coupled with the
dismantling of the Agricultural Commodity Boards, these policies promise
1/
For further details, see Parts II and III of the Trade Policy and Export
Development Loan (President's Report, No. P-4359-UNI,
September 19, 1986) which is designed to support the program.



-5-
to promote non-oil exports development in the agricultural and
industrial sectors.
14.       Financial policies play a dual role in the adjustment program.
For demand management purposes, monetary and fiscal policy have been
tightened, with a view toward minimizing inflationary pressures that
could otherwise fuel excessive demand for foreign exchange on the second
tier market. But financial polic!es also constitute an integral part of
the program's supply side -- in terms of rationalizing the allocation of
financial resources within the private sector and, of particular
importance, trimming the public investment program in line with
efficiency and cost recovery considerations. The program also provides
for a sharp reduction in budgetary transfers to public enterprises and
an ambitious privatization exercise.
Economic Effects
L5.       The adjustment program is likely to have wide ranging effects.
At the microeconomic level, the new policies will correct the
distortions in relative prices caused by the overvalued naira and reduce
the frequency of ad hoc government interventions in the market place;
relative profitability should more closely mirror underlying comparative
advantages, causing a convergence of private and social perceptions of
opportunity costs and an associated improvement in efficiency. On the
macroeconomic side, an exchange rate considerably below the official
rate is expected to prevail. With the pass-through into prices and
wages generally expected to be much less than the nominal depreciation,
a substantial depreciation in the real exchange rate should remain,
providing in turn an important incentive to export.
16.       The program' s success will rest on the ability of the economy
to expand the production of exports and import substitutes so as to
increase the foreign exchange available for the purchase of key imports
essential for growth.  This expansion is forecast to derive from
important changes in the agricultural and industrial sectors, with the
former projected to grow by 3 percent next year (compared with under
2 percent over the 1980-85 period) and the latter by 12 percent
(compared witb a decline over the 1980-85 period). Overall, real
non-oil GDP is expected to grow by 3 percent in 1987, thus recovering
the ground lost in 1986. While a rather stronger recovery is forecast
for imports, it is the expectation that, in large part, they will be
needed to replenish depleted stocks. For the rest of the 1980s and the
early 1990s, growth in non-oil GDP approaching 4 percent per annum
appears broadly consistent with import levels growing by 3 percent per
annum in real terms. Such a profile allows for very modest increases in
per capita GDP and per capita consumption.
Financing
17.       The external financing needs of the adjustment program are
substantial. For 1986 and 1987 taken together, the projected current
account deficits, scheduled maturities, and the requirement to make
settlements on outstanding arrears lead to an estimated balance of



-6-
payments financing gap of US$10.9 billion. Our assumptions imply
reschedulings of US$9.1 billion, while new commercial and official or
officially guaranteed credits are projected to reach US$1.2 billion and
disbursements from the Bank on adjustment policy loans, $0.7 billion.
Nor will the need for further reschedulings and new money end in 1987.
Under conservative oil price assumptions -- rising from US$13 per barrel
in 1987 to US$16 per barrel in 1990 and US$22 per barrel in 1995 -- and
real import growth of somewhat over 3 percent, external debt would
continue to grow until 1991, when conditions would begin to ease. On
these assumptions, Nigeria could begin to pay down its debt and to
rebuild reserves starting in 1992. Indeed, the adjustment program makes
Nigeria creditworthy for a substantial increase in Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
18.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1986 amounted
to US$2,760.2 million (net of cancellations). The amount of loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1986 was US$1,710.4 million, leaving
an undisbursed balance of US$1,049.8 million. Agriculture accounts for
about 43 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water
supply together for about 35 percent; and education, industry, urban,
bealth, and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining
22 percent. There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, totalling
US$35.3 million; both are fully disbursed. IFC has made six loans to
borrowers totalling US$25.0 million, and six equity investments
totalling US$4.5 million. Of these amounts, US$6.3 million have been
repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
19.       As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil and the
corresponding decline in public revenues, many of the ongoing projects
have serious problems of counterpart funding.  The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant State Governments continue to make
concerted efforts to alleviate the situation.  To speed up
disbursements, the Bank reallocated the proceeds of several loans and
increased disbursement percentages. Working within very severe and
continuing resource constraints, the Federal and the State Governments
are instilling a greater degree of discipline in their budgeting process
and cutting back on new capital expenditure in order to fund existing
obligations.
20.       A number of important policy changes are to be introduced
under the adjustment program. The major objectives of the adjustment
1/
This section is substantially unchanged from Part V of President's
Report No. P-4359-UNI dated September 19, 1986 for the Trade Policy and
Export Development LDan.



-7-
program are to: (a) restructure and diversify the productive Ise of the
economy in order to reduce its dependence on the oil sector and on
imports; (b) achieve fiscal and balance of payments viability; (c) lay
the basis for stable and sustainable growth; and (d) lessen the
dominance and improve the efficiency of the public sector and realize.
the growth potential of the private sector. To support these far
reaching policy changes, the Bank's lending program would be adjusted to
include quick-disbursing policy-based loans. These would include a
trade policy loan US$452 million which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on September 25, followed by a second trade policy loan and
further sectoral adjustment loans. At the same time, the Bank wll
continue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest
income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in
Nigeria. As in recent years, the Bank will continue to provide support
for agriculture and rural development with an emphasis on institution
building and transfer of technology, in order to raise the standard of
living of its population, particularly the rural poor. The Bank will
similarly support a well-balanced and integrated development of
Nigeria's industrial sector focusing on import substitution and in the
medium term, on non-oil exports. It also expects to support the
restructuring of the financial sector that is expected to be needed as a
consequence of the exchange and trade policy reforms. This approach
will entail a combination of intensive sector work and policy dialogue
with the Government, as well as Bank assistance in the industrial and
financial sectors.
21.       Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two to three years. Effective support for the commodity producing
sectors will also require strategic investment in production-related
infrastructure. There are good opportunities for the Bank to make a
significant contribution in energy development and highway maintenance
particularly since the Government substantially increased petroleum
product prices. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending
to education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher
training would be given special emphasis as would primary education.
Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and State Governments'
efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is
envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will
continue to be addressed through urban development lending focussed on
the needs of the urban poor and resource mobilization for urban areas.
The Bank is also assisting the Government in tackling the country's
health problems with a project. aimed at both federal and state (Sokoto)
levels, and is continuing a dialogue with the Government on population
issues, perhaps leading to t ending in this area.
22.       Although annual lisbursements have increased from
US$52 million in FY78 to -iearly US$284 million in FY86, Nigeria's
disbursement performance has lagged behind that of other countries in
the region. The undisbr-rsed balance now stands at 38 percent of some
US$2.8 billion in lo2ns and credits approved.  One of the reasons for
this development is th± rapid expansion of the Bank's loan portfolio
since 1979 as well as the fact that the closing dates for a number of



-8-
large loans, with relatively large, planned disbursements during the
early years, were extended during this period, mainly for agricultural
projects. In many cases, however, disbursements have been slowed by
long delays in loan effectiveness and institutional and management
problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart funding of projects by
the Federal and State Governments, resulting from lower oil revenues,
has further slowed disbursements. The Federal Government, with the
assistance of the Bank's Resident Miseion, is now carefully monitoring
loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems early and taking
corrective action. Also, the Bank has taken a series of measures aimed
at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new projects
(para. 20) which are showing results.
PART III - THE FORESTRY SECTOR
Background and Role in the Economy
23.       The forest sector has accounted for about 1-2 percent of GDP
and 6-8 percent of agricultural GDP over the last decade. Along with
the rest of the economy, forest activities grew significantly in the
early and mid-L970's as the oil boom fueled a rapid expansion in
domestic construction. This along with the steady loss of the high
fcrest to agricultural land and the poor record of plantation
development led to the declining availability of industrial wood. In
1976, the Federal Military Government (FMG) banned the export of logs
and most wood products. The value of forest product imports has
steadily increased from US$34 million in 1971 to US$230 million in 1981,
but as a percent of total merchandise imports, it has declined from
two percent to one percent. In recent years, forest imports have
declined along with the rest of merchandise imports and now consist
mostly of pulpwood and quality paper products which are not produced
locally. At present the forest sector provides employment opportunities
for some 1.5 to 2.0 million people, of which the vast majority are
working part time to supply firewood and poles. The production and
processing of logs in the forest zones involves only about 50,000 to
75,000 people.
24.       As a result of population pressures, economic growth and poor
management over the past two decades, Nigeria's forests and woodlands
have been rapidly degraded and reduced in area. This is particularly
true in the north which has a sizeable population (30 million), but
because of its semi-arid character, has a smaller forest endownment than
the south and a slower regeneration rate. In order to prevent the total
depletion of Nigeria's forest resources, FMG has set aside 9.6 million
ha of forests, roughly 10 percent of Nigeria's total land area, as
forest reserves. About 7.2 million ha (75 percent) of the reserves are
situated in the northern part of the country with the remaining 2.4
million ha (25 percent) in the wetter middle and southern regions. The
forest reserve areas also include some 150,000 ha of plantations estab-
lished by FMG over the last quarter century in the middle and southern
regions.



-9-
25.       It is difficult to determine accurately the supply and demand
for wood and wood products, but the general picture is one of current
consumption exceeding the level of sustained forest output, with the
greatest deficit occurring in the northern half of the country.
Estimates puS total annual national consumption in 1985 at about 50 to
55 million m , of which 90 percent is firewood. Total sustainable
production is difficult to determine since most wood comes from areas
outside the forest reserves. Estimates indicate that there is an annual
dsficit of fuelwood and poles in the north amounting to 5 to 8 million
m (the south has adequate supplies) and an industrial wood deficit in
the south where the sawmill industry is located, of about 2 to 3
million m . The implications of this deficit are severe, particularly
as the greatest part of it occurs in the north where, if unchecked, it
could result in severe soil degradation as the tree cover declines.
Sector Organization
26.        Institutions at the federal, state and local levels are
involved in the sector. The main federal institution is the Federal
Department of Forestry (FDF), an arm of the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Resources and Rural Development. FDF created the
Forestry Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to coordinate activities under
the First Forestry Project (LN 1679-UNI, March 1979). The unit would be
expanded under the proposed project and renamed the Forestry Management,
Evaluation and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU). Research is a federal
responsibility and is currently being carried out by the Forest Research
Institute of Nigeria (FRIN). FRIN operates several research
sub-stations, including a Shelterbelt Research Station at Kano. At the
State level, forestry affairs are the responsibility of the Chief
Conservator of Forests, whc,.e office - the State Forestry Department
(SFD) - is directly responsible for the actual management of the forest
reserves in each state and for implementing state investment projects
funded locally or by the FMG. At the local level, the Local Government
Authorities have roles which vary among states. In some states they
have received authority from the states to issue licenses and collect
revenues.
The Issues
27.       The following factors have contributed to the poor performance
of the sector: (i) lack of a national policy; (ii) outdated state
forest revenue systems; (iii) inadequate funding; and (iv) inadequate
management of forest resources. These are discussed below:
28.       National Forest Policy.  FMG's effectiveness in managing the
development and use of the country's forest resources has been
constrained by the lack of a national policy. FDF has prepared a draft
policy, but it needs to be expanded to consider (i) the institutional
relationships in the sector between federal, state and local
authorities; (ii) the state forest management systems, including the
need to protect the forests from illegal felling and encroachment;
(iii) the state forest revenue systems; and (iv) the long-tenm supply
and demand characteristics of the sector and the role of pricing and



- 10 -
alternative fuels in managing wood resources. FORMECU, with consultant
assistance, would review the draft policy addressing the above issues
(see para 46 (a)).
29.       State Forest Revenue Systems.  Forest revenues in Nigeria are
below the desirable level mainly because the natural forest has
historically been treated as a free resource. Determining the level of
charges in each state is a complicated process depending on the type of
species which either exists in the forest reserves or is being grown on
plantations, the proximity of local markets, and the purpose of the
charge, i.e., whether it is to discourage utilization, promote selective
utilization or result in clearfelling. FORMECU would employ consultants
to undertake a review of the forest revenue systems in the project
states to determine the type of charges employed, their current level,
and whether the system and the current rates are effective in meeting
conservation, utilization, revenue and cost recovery objectives. Each
state would participate fully in its study. These reviews would bear in
mind FMG's objectives as set out in its proposed National Forest Policy.
Drawing on the comments received, each project state would develop and
introduce a revised forest revenue system, including levels of forest
charges and a mechanism for adjusting these levels regularly to reflect
price movements (see para 46 (b)).
30.       Funding.  Actual funding for forestry has amounted to 2.4
percent of FMG a agricultural budget during 1981-84, compared to 3
percent when the Fourth Plan (1981-85) was prepared. Although resources
available during the Four:h Plan have been substantially lower than
expected, forestry has been no harder hit than the rest of the
agricultural sector. Assuming FM retains the same relative level of
funding for forestry within the Fifth Plan, about 2.5 to 3 percent of
its agricultural investment program, the proposed project would account
for about 40 percent of the resources likely to be available to forestry
during the upcoming plan period.
31.       Forest Reserve Management.  State Forest Departments have not
managed, on a systematic basis, the forest reserves within their*
jurisdiction, including the plantations established by FMG in the 1960s
and 1970s. Since 1960, EMG and the states have established 150,000 ha
of industrial plantations, but most have neither been thinned regularly
nor protected adequately from fire damage. Consequently, FMG is
unlikely to realize an adequate return on these investments unless
plantation management is improved.  Because PMG and the state
governments now agree on the importance of this issue, plantation
management would be supported under the proposed project.
Bank Involvement
32.       The Bank's involvement in the sector has been through the
First Forestry Project (US$31 million, Ln. 1679-UNI, March 1979). Its
major objective was the establishment of 22,600 ha of gmelina
plantations in Ogun and Ondo States. When the loan closed in mid-1986,
a year behind the original closing date, the project had achieved about
70 percent of the appraised planting targets in Ogun and Ondo States.



- 11 -
The reduction in planting has resulted from the shortfalls in FMG and
state funding during project implementation. Total project costs are
now estimated at US$65 million, compared with US$79.3 million at
appraisal.
33.       The project was designed to supply pulpwood to the Iwopin
mill, then under construction. In reactioin to financial pressures in
the early 1980's, FMG slowed work on the mill and eventually halted
construction in 1984. The mill is about 50 percent complete. A recent
Bank review of FMG's industrial sector program for the Fifth Plan
recommended FMC reappraise the mill before any additional expenditure is
incurred, noting that significant modifications in project design would
be needed for the mill to become economically viable. FMG has indicated
to the Bank that it does not intend to proceed with the Iwopin pulpmill
until after it has undertaken a reappraisal and only then if it can be
demonstrated that completing the mill would be economically viable.
34.       The  appraised economic rate of return (ERR) for the First
Forestry Project was 13 percent and it is estimated that the project at
completion would achieve a similar ERR if the plantations were used for
pulpwood. If the mill should not be completed, a separate analysis
indicates that the project would yield an ERR of about 10 percent if the
plantations were used for sawn timber and fuelwood. While the proposed
project differs substantially in scope from the First Forestry Project,
lessons learned on local funding and policy issues have been
incorporated. The local funding requirements are based on a
conservative analysis of FYM0 and state resource availability during the
project period and are likely to be met. The policy recommendations
would provide for a coherent approach to policy and revenue issues.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was identified in 1982 during the course of work
on the First Forestry Project. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program-
completed a preparation report in 1983 and the Federal Department of
Forestry (FDF) undertook additional preparation work in 1984. The
project was subsequently revised during appraisal when the Federal
Military Government's (FMG) proposals for forestry during the Fifth Plan
were reviewed. The appraisal's analysis supported FMG's conclusions
that the policy framework for the sector was weak and needed
strengthening and that investment activities should focus primarily on
afforestation in the ecologically threatened areas, and on the better
use of existing resources as the most efficient means of improving the
supply of industrial timber. Negotiations were held with the Nigerian
authorities in Lagos and Washington during May 1986. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5915-UNI) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex ITI.
Objectives and Descri tion
36.       The project has three objectives:  (a) on a national level, to



- 12 -
strengthen the structural base of the sector through improved policies,
training, studies and research; (b) in the northern and central regions
of the country, to sttbilize soil conditions in threatened areas and to
increase the supply of fuelvood, poles and fodder through farm forestry
and shelterbelt activities; and (c) in the southern and central regions,
to increase the supply of industrial wood by improving the management of
the nation's forest reserves and plantations and by establishing new
plantations. The Bank's involvement in the proposed project would be
consistent with initiatives for conservation in the Sub-Saharan Africa
Report and would also support the FMG's priorities within the Forestry
sub-sector.
37.       The project would include activities in nine of Nigeria's
nineteen states and would be carried out over an eight year period (1987
through 1994). The Afforestation Program (AP), comprising farm forestry
and shelterbelt activities (49 percent of base project costs) would be
carried out in the middle and northern regions of the country, while the
Forest Management Program (FNP), comprising improved management of
forest reserves and plantations and establishment of new plantations (35
percent of base project costs), would be carried out in the middle and
southern regions. In add'tion, the project would provide assistance for
management training, policy analysis, research and studies (16 percent
of base project costs). Each of these three components is described
below.
38.       The Afforestation Program (AP).  The AP is designed to meet
the urgent need to stabilize soil conditions in highly populated,
productive areas of central and northern Nigeria. It involves a series
of investments in farm forestry and, in certain states, shelterbelts.
The shelterbelt program is confined to Nigeria's "arid zone", which
covers the northern half of Nigeria's five northern-most states -
Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Kano and Sokoto. The farm forestry programs
would be undertaken in the same states, and in addition would include
the southern, sub-humid zones. A farm forestry program would also be
implemented on the Jos Plateau, a badly-eroded part of Plateau State in
central Nigeria.
39.       The farm forestry program would comprise a set of activities
designed to have more trees planted and properly cared for on the
farmland areas specified above. It includes: (i) nursery development
to provide sufficient seedlings of various types; (ii) efforts by
agricultural extension staff to encourage and advise farmers on tree
conservation/planting, and maintenance; and (iii) a mass media campaign
to increase farmer awareness of the need for and benefits of additional
tree cover. The activities would be statewide in the five northern
states. In Plateau State activities would be confined to the Jos
Plateau. The proposed project would provide for the close involvement
in the farm forestry program of the agricultural extension staff of the
countrywide Bank-supported Agricultural Development Projects (ADPs).
ADP extension staff would work closely with State Forestry Department
(SFD) extension staff and the farmers to ensure that the seedlings are
delivered at the correct time and thrr farmers receive adequate
information on planting, care and maintenance. Land tenure would not be



- 13 -
a major issue as the customary laws provide for land-rights to be vested
in individuals with the right of transfer through sale or inheritance.
Overall, the aim of this component is to involve about 250,000 farm
families which represent about 10% of the farm families in the three
zones. These families together farm an area of some 750,000 ha. The
farm forestry component would only make a modest start at closing the
deficit in the northern states between demand for fuelwood and
sustainable supply. If the program is successful, it could be expanded
to cover a greater number of farm families.
40.       The project would establish 1,700 km of shelterbelts which
would protect an area of about 34,000 ha (shelterbelts are the most
viable option in the more seriously threatened areas and have lower
risks). Project activities include demarcating shelterbelt areas,
arranging for land acquisition, clearing the land and planting, fencing
and maintaining the shelterbelts. Shelterbelts would be established
directly by SFDs on land acquired from farmers. Procedures to acquire
land for shelterbelts are well established and present no problems. The
AP states have agreed to the following criteria for selecting areas for
shelterbelts: (i) on average, less than four farm trees per ha; (ii)
land still cropped annually but where resowing is often necessary
because of winds in the planting and germination season and evidence of
declining yields; (iii) remaining standing trees appear healthy,
indicating that the water table is intact; (iv) positive results for
soil and water table tests; and (v) the farming area is well populated.
41.       The Forest Management Program (FMP).  Assistance would be
provided under FMP for improvei management of 37,600 ha of existing
industrial plantations and establishing 3,150 ha of new plantations.
Each component is summarized below.
42.       The project would provide for the improved management of
37,600 ha of industrial plantations in Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo
States. Given funding constraints, FDF and the states have not been
able to undertake the following comprehensive activities which would be
undertaken under the project to manage properly the existing
plantations: (1) maintaining roads and fire breaks; (2) weeding and
fire control measures; (3) thinning to permit maximum growth of
potentially valuable sawlogs; and (4) marketing and sawmill trials to
establish outlets for intermediate plantation products. The primary
benefits from the program would come from the increase in the number of
economic sawlogs.
43.       The FMG proposes to undertake selective new plantings when
done in conjunction with forest management programs. On this basis the
proposed project would support new plantations of 700 ha of teak in
Benue State and 2,450 ha of eucalyptus and pine in Kaduna State. No
additional plantings in Ogun and Ondo States would be included in this
project. (The African Development Bank (AFDB) is making a loan which
will help establish about 12,000 ha of new gmelina plantations in these
states.) FDF has worked closely with AFDB and the Bank to ensure that
the two projects will not duplicate efforts. The Forestry Management,
Evaluation and Coordination Unit (FORMECU) would manage both projects



- 14 -
and there would be integrated management units in both states. The new
plantations under the AFDB project would meet part of Nigeria's deficit
in industrial timber.
44.       Management, Training, Policy Analysis, Research and Studies;
The project would provide technical assistance as well as vehicles,
equipment and materials for the management, training, policy analysis,
research and studies activities of the proposed project. The most
significant element would be technical assistance which would consist
primarily of internationally-recruited experts (72 staffyears) on
long-term assignments. All internationally recruited staff would be
phased out by end of the project implementation period by which time it
is expected that all positions would be filled by Nigerians. To make
the transition to local staffing easier, during the last six months of
their contracts, these experts would act as advisors to the Nigerian
staff succeeding them. Recruitment would, of course, be open to
qualified Nigerians who are expected to fill a substantial number of
these positions from the beginning. The project would also provide for
22.5 staff years of technical assistance for undertaking studies and
conducting research work.
45.       Improving traditional forestry training activities as well as
introducing forestry training to the agricultural extension staff of
ADPs would be important project activities. In the Afforestation
Program, to help meet training requirements, the project would renovate
and provide essential materials and equipment to the Kano Forestry
Vocational Training Center. The Center would provide courses for
silvicultural assistants, for forest guards and supervisors, and for
extension trainers from the SFDs and ADPs. In the Forestry Management
Program, assistance would be provided to the Oluwa Forestry Training
Center in Ondo State which was established under the First Forestry
Project. Research activities would be concentrated largely on
afforestation-related issues as significant work needs to be done to
develop a comprehensive base to support afforestation activities over
the longer term. The Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit (APCU),
the management unit responsible for coordinating AP activities, would
oversee the program.
46.       The project would provide consultant assistance for the
following major studies:
(a) National Forest Policy. FMG has agreed that it would: (i)
ensure that FORMECU has carried out the review of the draft
policy outlined in para. 25 by December 31, 1987; (ii) prepare
a revised draft National Forestry Policy, taking into
consideration the findings of the review and submit it to the
states and the Bank for review by June 30, 1988; and (iii)
after considering the states' and the Bank's comments,
promulgate the National Forestry Policy by December 31, 1988.
FMG also has agreed that it would update the National Forest
Policy by June 30, 1990, in order to reflect the findings and
recommendations of the proposed National Afforestation Plan



- 15 -
discussed below; and thereafter, update it annually to
reflect developments in the sector.
(b)  State Forest Revenue Systems.  FMG has agreed that FORMECU
vould employ consultants by December 31, 1986, to undertake
reviews of the forest revenue systems in the project states.
These reviews would be completed by June 30, 1987 and
forwarded to FMG, the project states and the Bank for review
and comment. Bearing in mind the comments received, each
project state provided assurances that it would introduce a
revised forest revenue system by June 30, 1988. The power to
establish and collect forest revenues is vested with the
states. However, FMG has also agreed that it shall, within
the limits of its constitutional powers, take all necessary
action to ensure that the proposals are adopted by each
project state.
(c) National Afforestation Plan. An important project
objective would be to prepare a national plan for
afforestation in Nigeria. This would develop a
comprehensive base to support large scale afforestation
activities for the longer term which would be necessary
if desertification is to be controlled. APCU would be
responsible for preparing the plan which would be based
on their practical experience carrying out the project's
afforestation activities, as well as the initial findings
of some of the short-term research activities and
consultants' studies of afforestation requirements in
areas of Nigeria not covered under the project. PMC
has agreed that APCU would prepare a draft National
Afforestation Plan by December 31, 1989 for review by FMG, the
concerned states and the Bank, and that a final plan would be
issued by June 30, 1990.
(d) A Household Energy Supply and Demand Study. The study would
estimate future demand requirements for different types of
fuels by surveying rural-urban household energy consumption
patterns in the five northern States and making
recommendations on the role of alternative fuels, pricing
policies and the introduction of more efficient means of
consuming energy. This study is important because the
project's farm forestry activities, even if expanded later,
cannot totally solve the fuelwood deficit problem. The FMG
has agreed that APCU would complete a draft study by December
31, 1987, for review by the Federal Government, the concerned
states and the Bank, and that a final report would be issued
by June 30, 1988. The FMG has also agreed to carry out the
recommendations according to the timetable contained in the
report.
Organization, Implementation and Present Status of Project
47.       FDF would coordinate project activities through FORMECU, which



- 16 -
would concentrate on supervising the Forestry Management Program (FMP)
activities and would have responsibility for reviewing the draft
National Forest Policy and overseeing the studies of the state forest
revenue systems. APCU would be established in Kano to coordinate the
activities of the Afforestation Program (AP) in the six participating
central and northern states. APCU would report to FORMECU and would be
responsible for the intensive activities required to ensure the
successful establishment of afforestation activities. APCU would carry
out the research program on afforestation issues, the preparation of the
National Afforestation Plan and the study on Household Energy Supply and
Demand. FMG has agreed to establish FORMECU and APCU on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and appoint individuals to fill
four positions in these units (Head and Financial Adviser, FORMECU;
Project Coordinator and Financial Controller, APCU) whose qualifications
and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The establishment of
FORMECU and APCU and the appointment of acceptable candidates would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
48.       As in the First Project, field level activities would be
carried out by a project unit in each of the nine participating states,
reporting to the state's Chief Conservator of Forests. Kaduna State,
the only one with both FMP and AP components, would have separace
project units for each component. The project states have agreed that
the state project units would be established on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. Appointment of at least five project unit
managers acceptable to the Bank and ratification of Project Agraeements
by at least five states would be conditions of loan effectiveness.
49.       To coordinate activities within each AP state, it was agreed
that each AP state would establish a statewide Afforestation Committee
by December 31, 1987. The committees would meet semi-annually to ensura
that the operations of various agencies in rural afforestation are
properly coordinated. Each committee would be chaired by the State
Commissioner in-charge of the Forestry Division and have the head of the
state AP project unit as Executive Secretary. Other agencies
represented would include the local River Basin Rural Development
Authority, ADP, FDF, SFD, Lirestock Department and representatives from
the Local Government Authorities.
50.       Project implementation should proceed on schedule, in part
because FORMECU and the State Units in Ogun and Ondo are funlctioning
under the First Forestry Project and would continue operating without
interruption. FORMECU's senior staff are familiar with project details
and are preparing the necessary groundwork to start up the AP and FMP
activities and thb policy studies. Recruitment of international staff
would be handled by the Federal Agricultural Recruitment Agency (FARA)
in the UK, an institution established by the FMG to recruit
international staff for ADPs. Supported by the Bank under the
Agricultural Technical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2029-UNI, September 1981)
FARA works smoothly and efficiently. The project's initial local
funding requirements amount to less than one percent of estimated total
investment resources to be spent on agriculture by FMG and the
participating states in 1987 and should be affordable.



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
51.       The total project cost is estimaced at US$110.7 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$41.4 million or 37 percent. If taxes
and duties are excluded, total costs would be US$108.1 mil]lion.  A
breakdown of costs by major category is provided in the loan and project
summary. Project costs are calculated using prices obtained at
appraisal and updated to May 1986, the date of negotiations. Physical
contingencies have been calculated at 10 percent of base costs except
for salaries and wages which have been calculated at 5 percent. Price
contingencies have been calculated on base costs plus physical
contingencies and compounded annually, using the following rates for
foreign costs: 6.8 percent for 1987-88, 7.0 percent for 1989, 7.1
percent of 1990, 4.0 percent for 1991-1995; and for local costs: 14.0
percent for 1987-90 and 8.0 percent for 1991-95. Total contingencies
(physical and price) are equivalent to 35 percent of total project costs
or 54 percent of base costs.
52.       The proposed Bank loan of US$71.0 million would finance
64 percent of project costs (66 percent net of taxes). FMG would
finance US$27.7 million (25 percent) and the State Governments together,
US$12.0 million (11 percent). FMG would relend US$24.6 million of the
Bank loan (34 percent) on the terms of the Bank loan to Benue, Kaduna,
Ogun and Ondo States for the commercially-oriented FMP component
(essentially for plant, equipment, buildings and furniture) under
subsidiary loan agreements between FMG and the State Governments.
Execution of these agreements would be a condition of disbursement of
the Bank loan for the individual state component. The states would bear
the foreign exchange risk. The balance of the loan (US$46.4 million, 65
percent) would finance FORMECU's operations and the Afforestation
Program (AP). Given the essentially non-commercial nature of AP
activities, FKG would treat as grants to the AP states the Bank loan
funds used to finance these activities.
Procurement
53.       Civil works contracts, amounting to US$2.5 mn, would be mainly
for nursery construction under AP, and project facilities (housing and
workshops) under FMP. Given the expected small amount of each contract
and the scattered nature of the works, about 80 percent of the contracts
would be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Minor civil works, mainly involving
establishment or relocation of nurseries under AP would be carried out
using force account. Contracts for vehicles, equipment, materials,
furniture and spare parts, amount to US$33.7 mn, would be grouped where
possible into contracts valued at US$300,000 or more and would be
procured through international competitive bidding. A margin of
preference equal to 15 percent of the C.I.F. bid pr±ce of imported goods
or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would
be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Contracts below US$300,000 would
be procured through competitive shopping with at least three quotations.
An exception would be for the procurement of treated poles (about US$3.4
million) to be used primarily in fencing shelterbelts. Because their



- 18 -
unit value is low and transport costs high, and they are available
locally, imports would not be competitive. These would be purchased
locally using LCB. The following table summarizes the amounts and
methods of procurement with the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
shown in parenthesis:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Procurement Component                ICB     LCB    Others      NA    Total
1.  Civil Works                      -       2.0     0.5         -     2.5
(1.7)   (0.4)             (2.1)
2. Vehicles, Equipment,
Materials, Furniture,           21.4    3.6      8.7         -    33.7
and Spare Parts                 (21.4)  (3.2)   (7.6)            (32.2)
3.  Land for Shelterbelts                                      6.1      6.1
and Nurseries                                              (-)      C-)
4.  Consultants, International        -       -       7.4       -       7.4
Salaries and Training                           (7.3)       -     (7.3)
5.  Wages                             -       -        -      27.6    27.6
(16.6)  (16.6)
6.  Salaries                          -       -        -      12.7    12.7
C-)     C-)
7.  Vehicle/Plant Operating Costs   -         -        -      20.7    20.7
and General Services                                     (12.8)  (12.8)
Total                       21.4    5.6    16.6       67.1   110.7
IBRD                       (21.4)  (4.9)  (15.3)   (29.4)  (71.0)
.s      ,..===m  .          m 
Disbursement
54.       The Bank loan of US$71 million would be disbursed over an
eight year period. Disbursements would be made as follows: civil
works: 85 percent of costs; vehicles, equipment, materials, furniture
and spare parts: 100 percent of foreign costs and 80 percent of local
costs; international salaries, consultants and training: 100 percent of
foreign costs and 80 percent of local costs; wages: 60 percent of
costs; operating costs and general services: 65 percent of costs.
55.       Accounts would be established and replenished regularly in
order to ensure adequate and timely funding by FMG and the states, and
to eliminate the need for the implementing agencies to pre-finance
expenditures eligible for financing under the Bank loan. FMG and the



- 19 -
states have agreed that: (1) FORMECU, APCU and the project units in the
nine participating states would each establish a project account in a
local commercial bank to receive the direct state contributions to the
project as well as FMG's contribution which would be channeled through
FORMECU; (2) they would promptly pay their annual contributions
quarterly into these accounts in advance; and (3) FMG would make an
initial deposit into FORMECU's project account of the equivalent of US$2
million (50 percent of the first year's contribution); and each state
would make an initial deposit of 50 percent of its first year's
contribution into its project account (for the nine states amounting to
the equivalent of US$ 750,000).  Compliance with this condition by the
FMG, at least two states in FMP and at least three states in AP would be
conditions of loan effectiveness. In addition, Special Accounts
denominated in U.S. dollars would be established in local commercial
banks by FORMECU, APCU and the FM? project units in Benue, Ogun, Ondo
and Kaduna states into which the Bank would make initial deposits
totalling US$3.5 million, and which would be used to prefinance goods
and services which are reimbuxsable under the loan. The Special
Accounts would be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank and their replenishment would be conditional on FMG's and FKP
states' quarterly releases of their contributions.
Auditing and Reporting
56.       Agreement was reached that the following accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank: the
Special Accounts and the project accounts of FORMECU, APCU and the FMP
project units (Benue, Kaduna, Ogun and Ondo), including separate
accounts for amounts withdrawn on the basis of statements of
expenditures; and the project accounts of the AP project units (Bauchi,
Borno, Kaduna, Kano, Plateau and Sokoto). Audit reports would be
submitted within six months of the close of FMC's fiscal year. FORMECU
and APCU would submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank.
Production and Markets
57.       Over the project's estimated life (35 years for AP and 52
years for the FMr), incremental wood production in total would amount to
4.3 million i3. Of this, some 2.5 million m3 (58 percent) would be
fuelwood, 1.3 million m3 (30 percent) would be for poles, and 0.5
million m3 (12 percent) would be for sawlogs. In addition, AP
production would include a substantial but unquantified amount of fodder
for livestock, and an estimated 10 million mango fruits and 28 million
cashew nuts.
58.       Under FMP, the industrial plantation project units would
market fuelvood and building poles from sales points in market towns
near the project areas. This approach has worked successfully. The
small amount of higher quality poles would be sold to treatment plants
for conversion into electric poles for which there is considerable
demand. The most valuable output, sawlogs, would be sold to sawmillers
for conversion to sawn timber. Since the annual incremental sawlog
production would average less than 0.5 percent of the present annual



- 20 -
intake by the sawmilling industry (about 6 million m), no marketing
problems are anticipated. Under AP, the average annual incremental
amount of fuelwood produced per annum when the project is fully
developed would not exceed 1-2 percent of the estimated present annual
deficit between demand and sustainable supply of fuelwood in the wood
deficit areas of Bauchi, Borno, Kaduna, Kano, Plateau and Sokoto (5 to 8
million I'). Given that an average family of six consumes about 3m' of
fuelwood per annum, incremental fuelwood production would meet the
annual needs of some 30-50,000 families. The fuelwood and small poles
produced under the farm forestry program would be used on the farm.
Shelterbelts would be thinned for fuelwood and poles, and the offtake
marketed locally.
Financial Impact and Cost Recovery
59.       The project's financial impact and provisions for cost
recovery vary by component. There are various potential ways for AP to
achieve cost recovery. For the farm forestry component the easiest
practice would be to charge for seedlings when they are made available
to farmers. For the shelterbelts, state governments are treating these
as infrastructure works, like roads; they are large, singular
investmentsa the merits of which are based on their ecological benefits.
At present neither FMG nor the states charge farmers or communities for
constructing shelterbelts; however, it should be possible to recover
some of their costs through the licensed harvesting of fuelwood and
poles, or perhaps by charging the benefitting communities/farmers a
tariff to reflect part or all of the costs of construction. These
issues would be explored in detail in the proposed studies of the state
forest revenue systems (para 46(b)). The studies in the AP states would
deal specifically with the issue of cost recovery of AP activities, and
state revenue systems would be recommended that would move to full cost
recovery of AP as soon as feasible.
60.       It is expected that FMP would achieve full cost recovery.
However, sales of industrial wood from project plantations would be on
the basis of market prices and therefore it is impossible to say with
certainty if cost .recovery would be achieved. Based on conservative
estimates of market prices, FMP revenues should cover operating costs
and debt service on the re-lent proceeds of the proposed Bank loan
(US$24.6 million) and provide a reasonable financial return to the
states on their investment. FMG's contribution to FMP would be treated
as a development grant to the states following the standard practice in
Nigeria for forestry investments.



- 21 -
Benefit' and Risks
61.       Because of the very different nature of the Afforestation
Progr.m (AP) and the Forest Management Program (FMP), separate ERRs have
been calculated. The ERR for AP is approximately 15 perc.nL. For the
five northern states the ERR calculations are based on the
quantification of benefits from three sourceb: wood (fuelwood, poles,
frnit), improved crop outputs (primarily because of increased
availability of moisture in the soil) and improved livestock output
(because of increased availability of browse). Based on wood benefits
alone, the ERR would be a modest 5-7 percent, but with the addition of
the ecological benefits (as measured by increases in crop and livestock
benefits), the ERR for the five northern states is satisfactory. It
should be noted that conservative assumptions have been used in
calculating the ecological benefits. The shelterbelts have been assumed
to provide a 20 percent increase in crops and livestock yields; the farm
forestry program, a 10 percent increase, with the sensitivity studies
considering a wide range of cost and yield assumptions. In the Jos
Plateau, the benefits from increased wood production provide an ERR of
16 percent (the higher rainfall permitting trees to grow much faster
than in the five northern states). Ecological benefits have not been
quanLified, but if they had been, the ERR for the Jos Plateau would have
exceeded 20 percent.
62.       The risks of the AP are slight for the shelterbelts and rest
primarily with the farm forestry program. Nigeria has successfully
established over 1,500 km of shelterbelts, and no difficulties are
expected in establishing shelterbelts under the project. The farm
forestry program's major risk lies with farmer acceptance. The farm
forestry program has been carefully designed to minimize this risk by
involving the agricultural extension staff in the process of delivering
farm seedlings and seeing that they are properly planted and cared for,
and by mounting extensive media messages to educate the people on the
importance and need for more trees. These activities, combined with the
increased interest of farmers in trees (as reflected in the high demand
for fruit tree seedlings in the last several years) reduce the risks of
the farm forest program.
63.       The ERR for FMP would be about 17 percent.  This is based on
increased production of fuelwood, poles (building and utility) and, most
importantly, sawlogs. The ERR is relatively insensitive to price or
benefit changes: costs would have to increase by 72 percent or benefits
decrease by 42 percent for the ERR to fall below 10 percent. FMP faces
no unusual technical risks as Nigeria has successfully established
industrial plantations in the past. Funding shortfalls have been the
primary cause of past difficulties and the proposed project has been
carefully designed to ensure that project activities are affordable at
both state and national levels.



- 22 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
September 29, 1986



- 23 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
NIGERIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent    Mid-income    Mid-income
1965       1973    Estimate   S-S Africa        NA & ME
AREA
Total land area (thou sq km)    923.8        923.8       923.8
Agricultural (% of total)          52.3        54.8       55.6
GNP PER CAPITA CUSS)                   ..          ..       730.0      1025.3      1136.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total population (thou)         58490.0    71274.1    96485.1
Urban pop. (% of total)            14.7        17.5        23.0       33.1        49,3
Population growth rate(%):
Total                                         2.5        2.8         2.a         2.8
Urban                                        4.7         5.2         4.8         4.1
Life expect. at birth (yrs)        41.5       44.7        49.6        51.0        59.9
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (mill)                                     163.5
Stationary pop. (mili)                                 528.1
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land              121.2       140.8       167.8       45.6       105.2
Pop. age structure (%):
0-14 yrs                         46.4       47.3        48.1        46.2        43.9
15-F. yrs                        51.3       50.3        49.4        51.0        52.7
55 and above                      2.3         2.4        2.5         2.8         3.4
Crude birth rate (per thou)        51.4       50.5        49.6        46.3        39.5
Cruce death rate (per thou)        22.8        20.0        16.4        15.6        10.4
Total fertility rate                6.9         6.9        6.9         6.4         5.6
Infant mort. rate (per thou)    178.5         145.6       110.4      103.2        94.0
Child death rate (per thou)        33.0        28.6        21.4        17.6       12.1
Family planning:
Acceptors, annual (thou)           ..       24.6
Users (% of married women'         ..          ..         5.0        7.1        27.2
FOOD. I-5EALTH ANO NUTRITION
Index of food production per
capita (1974-76 - 100)            119.4        97.8       94.3        88.3        69.1
Per capita supply of:
Calories (% of requirmnts)       95.6       90.8        85.7        94.2       117.5
Proteins (grams per day)         51.8       48.1        41.8        50.6        76.2
Pop. per physician (thou)          45.0        30,4        12.0 a     11.3         4.6
Pop. per nurse (thou)               4.1         5.1         3.0 a      2.6          1.3
Pop. per thospital bed (thou)       2.4         1.7         1.6 b       1.4        0.7
Access to safe water
(% of population):  Total          ..          ..          ..       45.8        71.3
Urban         ..         ..          *-        70.5        94.9
Rural        ..          ..          ..        35.0        53.6
Population Growth              Infant Mortality       Primary School Enrollment
5                   ~~~~~~~200.
120-
r00    -                                      -
7 - ~ ~   ~    ~    1-                                        0~
2                                                                 U~~~~~~~~~~ 
1965 -75 1973 -84      1960 1965 1970 1975 19B0      1960 1965 1970 1975 1990
N IGERIA                                       a  NIGERIA
m FiRsr REf GROUP                              C  FIRST REf GROUP



-24 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
1986 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
NIGERIA
RAsferencm Groups (MRE)
Most
Recant    Mid-Income    Mid-ineome
1965       1973    Estinate   S-S Africa        NA & ME     -
LABOR FORCE
Total Labor Force (thou)        23645.2    27160.7    33985.4
Female C%)                       41.3        40 7       40.0        37.5        11.4
Agriculture (%)                  72.1        70.2       69.2 a      59.4        39.2
Industry (%M                     10.2        10.3       11.6 a      14.8        25.7
Participation rate (%:
Total                            40.4        38.1        35.2       36.2        25.8
Malm                             48.1        45.8        42,8       451.        45.3
Female                           32.9        30.7       27.8        26.7         5.9
Age dependency ratio                1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0        0.9
HOUSING
Average size of household:
Total
Uroan                                         4.7
Rural
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity;
Total
Urban                            81.3        42.4
Rural
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   32.0        37.0                   98.5        93.5
Male                   39.0        47.0                   107.8       107.1
Female                 24.0        27.0                   90.7        79.7
Secondary: Total                  5.0        4.0                    21.0        44.7
Male                  7.0         6.0          ..       2893        52.9
Female                3.0         3.0                    16.9       35.5
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                          33.4       38.8                    42.5        29.4
Secondary                        17.8       27.8                    27.7        19.5
Pupils reacning grade 6 (%)                                           80.8        75.9
INCOME. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)             34.5       52.9       129.2       530.7       719.9
Percentage of private income
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%                        .
Lowest 20%                         .
Lowest 40%
Est. absolute poverty Income
level tUSS per cacita):
Urban                                                  695.0       689.6
Rural                                                  341,0       338.1
Est. pop. below absalute
poverty income level (%)
Urban
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.            1.0         2.1           .       36.0        10.2
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)           6.7        3.0         5,3         7.4        35.3
EPO July 1986
Not available
Note. Group averages are ocouletton wueightoe. Country coverage aecenes on data availibility and as not unilorm Unless otherwise
noted. 1955 raers to any year between 1962 and 194. 1973 beotween :970 and '97t and most recent astimate between 19A2 and 965.
s. ISO   U. 1979.



- 25 -                                       ANNEX ]
3   Definitions of Social Indicators                                  Page 3 of 6
The definition of a particular social indicator may  Infant (age 0-1) nortalizy rate - Number of inflants
vary among counLries or within one country over      per thousand live births who die before reaching one
time. For instance, different countries define "urban  year of age. in a given year.
area" or "sare water" in dilTcrent ways.            C(ild (azg' 1-4) mnortality raze - Number of deaths
of children, age 14. per thousand children in the
AREA Ithousand square kilometers)                    same age group in a given year. For most developing
Tortal - Total surface area comprising land area and  countries thcse data are derived from models using
inland waters.                                       information on infant mortality rates.
,Agricuitural (perrentage' qfo aal) - Estimate or agri-  Faimnlv planning - acceptors, (thousands) - Annual
cultural urea used lor crops. pastures. market and   number of acceptors or birth-control measures re-
kitchen gardens or to lie fallow. as percentage of   ceived under the auspices of a national family plan-
total.                                               ning program.
Family planning - users (percentage of married twom-
GNP PER CAPITA 4US$) - GNP per capita csti           en) - Percentage of married women of child-bearing
mates at currcnt market prices, calculated by the    age who are practising. or whose husbands are
conversion method used for the World Bank Atlas,     practising. any form of contraception. Women of
19V6.                                               child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549.
although for somne countries contraceptive usage is
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                      measured for another age group.
Total population - mid-! ear (millions)
U!rhan population (percentage of- total) - Diflerent  FOOD. HEALTH AND NUTRMITON
countries follow different definitions of urban popu-  Index offoodproduction per capita (1974-76 = 100)
lation. Such differences may affect comparability of  - Index of per capita annual production of all food
data among countries.                                zommodities. Production excludes animal feed and
Ppdulation growth rate (percent) - total anid urban -  seed for agriculture. Food commodities include pri-
Annual growth rates of total and of urban popula-    mary commodities (for example, sugarcane instead
tions.                                               or sugarl which are edible and which contain nu-
Lifi expectanvy at hirtbl f (ears) - Number of years a  tricnts (for example. Lea and coffee are excluded).
newborn infant would live if prevailing patterns of  Commodities include nuts, fruits, pulses, cereals.
mortality for all people at the lime of its birth were  vegetables, oil seeds. sugarcane and sugar beets.
to stay the same throughout its life.                li estock. and livestock products. AggregaLe produc-
Papuludoin projectdons                               lion of each country is based on national average
Pripulation in 2000 - The projection of population  producer price weights.
given total population by age and sex. f'ertility and  Per capita supply of calories (percentage of require-
the demographic parametcis of mortality rates. and   ments; - Computed from energy equivalent of net
migration in the base year 1980. until the population  food supplies available in country per capita per day.
reaches a stationary state.                          Available supplies comprise domestic production.
Sfattiat/arnr populatitor - The projected population  imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net
level when zero population growth is achieved: i.e.,    supplies exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agri-
the birth rate is constant and equal to the death rate.  culture, quantities used in food processing, and loss-
the ape structure is stable, and the growth rate is    es in distribution. Requirements were estimated for
zero.                                                1977 by the Food and Agriculture Organization
Populatiin densitY. cgritintirallhind - Population per  (FAO) based on physiological needs for normal
square kilometer I 100 hectaresj of agricultural area.  activitv and health considering body weights. envi-
Population ast'e structitre fperceit) - Children 0-14  ronmental temperature. age and sex distribution of
years. working age 15-64 years. and people of 65     population.
Nears and over as percentages of population.         Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein
Crudle birth rate- Annual live births per thousand   content of per capita net supply of food per day. Net
population.                                          supply of food is defined as above. Requirements for
Cruide leathi ratre - Annual deaths per thousand     all countries established by United States Depart-
population.                                          ment of Agriculture provide for minirnum allow-
Total fcrrilihr rate - The average number of children  ances of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20
that would be born alive to a woman during her       grams of animal and pulse protein. These standards
lifetime if during her childbearing years she were to  are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and
bear children at each age in accordance with prevail-    23 grams of animal protein as an average for the
ing age-specific fertility rates.                    world. as proposed by FAO.



- 26 -                                           A NNIX 1.
PI;ge 4 oi l)
Population per physician - Population divided by   group of individuals who share living quarters and
number of practising physicians qualified from a   main meals. A boarder or lodger may or may not be
medical school at university level.                included in the household for statistical purposes.
Population per nursing person - Population divided  Percentage of dwellings with electricity - total, urban,
by number of practising graduate nurses, assistant    andrural - Conventional dwellings with clcctricity in
nurses, practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.  living quarters as percentage of all dwellings.
Population per hospital bed - Population divided by
number of hospital beds available in public and pri-    EDUCATION
vate, general and specialized hospitals, and reha-    Enrollment Rates
bilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments     Primary School Enrollment - total, male andfemnale
permnanently staffed by at least one physician. Es-    - Gross enrollment of all ages at primary level as a
Lablishments principally providing custodial care are    percentage of primary school-age children. While
not included.                                      many countries consider primary school age to be
Arcess to safe water (percentage ofpopulation) - total.    6-11 years. others have wider agc groups. Differ-
urban, andrural- People (total, urban, and rural) with    ences in country practices in the ages and duration
reasonable access to safe water supply (includes treat-    of school are reflected in the ratios given. For some
ed surface waters or untreated but uncontaminated  countries with universal education, gross enrollment
water such as that from springs, sanitary wells, and  may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are youn-
protected boreholes). In an urban area a public foun-    ger or older than the country's standard primary-
tain or standpost located not more than 200 meters    school age.
from a house may be considered within reasonable     Secondary School Enrollment - total, male and
access of that house. In rural areas reasonable access    female - Computed in a similar manner, but includes
would imply that members of the household do not    pupils cnrolled in  vocational. or teacher training
have to spend a disproportionate part of the day    secondary schools. for pupils usually of 12 to 17
fetching water. Absent and incompletc responses, and  years of age.
large variations between countries, may affect the   Pupil-teacher ratio -primary, and secondory - Total
validity of the overall results of the country and  students enrolled in school divided by the total
regional comparisons. In addition, certain definitions    number of teachers.
and classifications such as urban and rural, reason-  Percentage pupils reaching grade six - The percen-
able access to safe water in rural areas, safe water    tage of a cohort of 1,000 pupils starting primary
sources (when they are not subject to laboratory    school that persist into grade six.
control) vary considerably from country to country
and thus affect comparability of the data.         INCOME, CONSUMPrION, AND POVERTY
LABOR FORCE                                        Energy consumption per capita (kilograms of oil equi-
Total labor force (millions) - Economically active  valent) - Annual consumption of commercial pri-
persons, including armed forces and unemployed but    mary energy (coal and lignite, petroleum, natural
excluding hou!a f,ives and students. Definitions i  gas, and hydro, nuclear and geothermal electricity).
excludios countrives arenot comparalen. Defimt     in Private income distribution - Income (both in cash
various countries are not comparable.              and kind) accruing to percentile groups of house-
Female (percent) - Female labor force as a percen-
tage of total labor force,                         holds ranked by total household income.
Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming,    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Includes
forestry, hunting and fishing as a percentage of total    motor cars seating fewer than eight persons; ex-
labor force.                                       cludes ambulances, hearses and military vehicles.
Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construc-    NVewspaper circularion (per thousand population) -
tion, manufacturing and electricity, water and gas as    Average circulation of "daily general interest news-
a percentage of total labor force.                 paper," defined as a periodical publication devoted
Participation rate (percent) - toral. male, andfemale    prinarily to recording general news. It is considered
- Participation rates are computed as the percentage    to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of population of all ages in the labor force. These are  Estimated absolute povertv income level (USS per
based on International Labour Office (LO) data on  capita) - urban and rural - Absolute poverty income
the age-sex structure of the population.           level is that below which a minimal nutritionally
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15.    adequate diet plus essential nonfood requirements
and 65 and over. to the working age population (age  are not affordable. These estimates are very approx-
15-64).                                            imate measures of poverty levels. and should be
interpreted with considerable caution.
HOUSING                                            Estimared populazion below absolute povernI income
Average size of household (persons per household) -    level (percent) - Percentages of urban and rural
rotal, urban, and rural - A household consists of a  populations who live in "absolute poverty."



-    27  -                                           ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 6
EONOIIC INDICATORS
DROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT /a/                                                  ANNUAL RATE OF BRDWTHIZ, Constant Prices)
-------           1983                 1964                       -…_-_-_- ___-----_
US5 Bin       I    US5 Bln        1               1975-80    1982       1983      l984
GNP at Market Pri;ZE               75.9    100.0       71.7      94.4                 3.5       0.4      -9.6       -6.6
Gross Domestic Investment          13.4      17.6       9.6      12.6                 6.2    -22.4    -24.5    -27.7
Gross National Saving               9.9      12.9       6.7       6.9                  1.2    -29.6    -23.9    -32.7
Current Account Balance            -4.8      -6.3      -0.7      -0.9                   -         -         -         -
Exports of Boods & nfs             10.7      14.1      12.3      16.2                 5.5    -28.5         1.5     20.3
Imports of 60ods & nfs             13.8      1e.2      10.7      14.2                 6.3    -23.1    -22.4    -22.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1983 ibJ
Value Added                   Labor Force          Yalue Added per Worker
US$ Bln      I                  MIn        Z                  USS
Agriculture                                  16.8      25.6                20.3      56.3                  027
Industry & Mining                            23.1      35.3                 6.9      19.0                3350
Services                                     25.7      39.1                 7.6      21.9                3361
Total/Average                           65.7    100.0                  34.9    100.0                 1891
60UERNhENT FINANCE iai
Federal Government
N Bln         As I of SOP
19B5                1985
Current Receipts                                        6.o                11.6
Current Expenditure                                     7.5                10.1
Current Surplus                                         1.1                 1.5
Capital Expenditure and Net Lendinq                     a.4                 4.6
Deficit                                                -2.3                -3.1
,MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
19,9      1900      1981      1902      1903      1984      1985
iPercentages)
Annual Percentage Chances in:
Consumer Price Index                                  11.8    I.0        20.8       7.7e     23.2      39.6       5.5
Bank Credit to Public ½ctar                            3.0       4.i      84.1      59.3      50.3      15.0       4.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         14.7      32.9      34.3      17.8       3.6       4.8       5.9
Honey & Ouasi Money                                   28.i      46.1       8.0       8.7      14.7      1i.5    1.3
ornev & Quasi Honey as 1 60P                           24.0i     29.8      31.9      33.D      35.2      39.5      37.2
Mote: All conversions to US dollars are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
Fal Based on the Government Budget estimates. iHF data, and iiRD Staff estimates.
lb/ Derived from planning docusents and refers to the nuaber of gainiully employed.
21-Sep-56



28  -                                              ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS  ia                                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1903-851
1902      1983     1984      1985                                 USS Dln       Z
(Bilions US s i                      Crude Oil               11.2      95.9
Cocoa Products          0.37       3.2
Exports of Goods, nfs              12.6      10.7      12.3      12.9           Palm Products           0.01       0.1
Imports of 6oods, nfs             1.4       13.B     10.7       ?.9            Rubber                  0.02       0.2
Others                  0.07       0.6
Interest Payments (net)            -0.5      -0.9     -1.6      -1.b                Total               11.7    100.0
Other factor Payments (net)        -0.5      -0.4      -0.3      -0.3
Net Transfers                      -0.4      -0.4      -0.3     -0.3            EXTERNAL DEBT, DECENMER 31, 1965 /bI
Balance on Current account         -7.2      -4.0     -0.7       0.6                                           Us$ Bin
… ---- ---- -  __   -   ___ -               _   ___ -----_        ___                                           __
Direct Foreign Investment           0.4       0.4       0.2       0.4           Total Debt Including
Undisbursed                    21.85
Net Official Borrowing              3.0       1.3       0.6     -0.2
Disbursement                       3.b       2.3       1.2      1.6            Total Outstanding and
Amortization                      -0.6      -0.9      -1.3     -1.7             Disbursed                       10.45
of which Non-Guaranteed
Other Capital Inet;                 0.4      -0.2      -0.1      0.4             Private Debt                     0.42
Error; and Omissions               -1.1      -.         0.8     -0.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1965
Overall Balance                    -4.5      -5.3       0.7       1.0           ---------------------------
Reserve Movementsllnrr.-i           2.4       0.i      -0.5     -0.3
Total HLT                        32.5
Fuel and Related Material                                                       Non-juaranteed Private
lmports                                                                         Debt                              1.5
of which: Mineral Fuels           0.3       0.2      O.i       D.2
ExoorLs                                                                        Total Outstandinq and
of which: Petroleum              11.9       9.9      11.6     12.2             Disbursed                        34.3
EXCHANGE RATE                                                          IBRD/lDA LENDING AS OF DECEMBER  31, 1905
1976 : NI.00 zUSS1.57                                                                                  lBRD       IDA
197  : N1.00 =US$1.66
1960 : 11.00   USSI.3                                                   Outstanding k Disbursed    1.27         0.03
1981 : N1.00 =US$1.63                                                     Undisbursed                   1.01
1962 : N1.00 =U$1.49
1903 : 111.00 =USS1.38                                                    Outstanding Including
1984 : N1.00 =US$1.31                                                      Undisbursed                  2.20      0.03
1985 : N1.00 = US$1.12
------------- --------------------------------…--                                       -- ------
lat IBRD and [MF Staff estimates.
lb/ Including short-term loans; assumed Central Bank liability of private sector arrears;
and current letters of credit.



_29 -
THE STATES OF SASH trliup DPERA71ChX                                    ANNEX    II
A.  STATtEHlrtT OF ILA'C GRahIP OPFNTAIONS IN NIGERIA In
(As  ,- sllre   31. Ig99&)
Loan otr                                                                        rsl Ntil.t
Cre.dit                                                               A-nunt Illa.%  _eVie nn
mbher   Yar   Oerrowdr    Purpoe _ls,                                          IDA    indieerse4
Twenty eilht Ionns and two credits fully disbursed                   743.1    3S 1 /1'
1191      197t     Nigeria      E.C State Dil Palm                    19.0                 3
I591      1918      Nigeria     Ilue  Eat. Seallhnlder Oil            30.0 D.n ct
1597      1978      KIDD        Industrial Development                51.9                 3.1
Ib7      1916      Nigeria    Agrte.  ev. - Bide                     23.U                 1.7
I666      1919      Niteria    Agric. nv.  ll rn                      27 o 2.0
1679      1919      Ntgeria    forestry                               31.0                  1. 
1711      1979      Niteria    wetsr Su,Ply - *iduce                  92.0               $5,S
17?9      1979      Nigterli    Agrlc. & Rural Npgt. Inst.             9.1                  3.O1
176I      Io,n      sfrr        Power LaIos                          100.0                   )
1767      198D'     Nigeria    irban Devwlopssen  - Bauchl            17.8 N.7
1838      1960a     %gerIa    Agrle.  tev. - Ovo-lorth                2r.0
IUS4      19621     Nigeria    Arl. Dev.  - Ek,iti-Aholk              3:.5                 IH;
1553      1908      NiLgerla   Rgods                                  78.0                 I
1981      19bl      Nigeria     Agric. Dev.   B auchi                132.0 nM2N
1982      191       Nigteria    Agric. Dev. - Neo                    142.0                 4h.6
2029      1961      Nigeria    Tech. Asaisconec - Agtre.              47.0                .4.5
2036      1962      Nigeria    Mater Supply - A^usbre                 67.0                4h.6
2005      1982      NRPA        Ptwer - Distribution                 600.0                33.3
21e5      1982      Nigeria    Agric. Dov.   isknto                  141.0 o5.1
2299      1993      S1D6         lIdutrial Development               120.0               117.7
2345      1964      Nigeria    Fertilizer Import                     250.o                50.0
237b      1984      NbCI         Small £ Hedium Scale Industry    41.0                    40.6
*2190      1984      SPC          tech. Aust.   G as  EuginasrinS    25.0 2Q.0
2436      1981      Nigeria    Agrtc. Dee. - Kaduna                  122.6                :1,7
2*50      1985      Nigeria     Tech. Aahistante                      13.0                12.2
25D3      196S      Nitzrla    Health - Sokoto                        34.0                Ju.D
2528      19r5      Nigeria    Mat,r Supply - Bors                    721.0
3607      1965      Nigeria     Urban - Iso                           53.0                51 n
42618       19ig5     Nileria    ldustry - Tech. Aest.                  S.0                  510
2620      1985      Nlgeria     Urban - Lagos Solid Wtee              77.0                 2D
Total                                                   2, 72. 9      35 3  1i!09.3
f1 which has been repid                                    35S  9      Sf0
Tocal outstsdi.nR                                                     2Y,5
Amount sold                         16.I
Of which has been repald           3t6.                      0.0
Total now held by bask 6 IDA                            2.L165       29.5
Total undisboured                                                            1 049.8
D. STATUENEIT OF ItS   t1S  E$tS
(As of KarTC  31. 186)
Facal                                        Tyre of           Amount in DF NlliLo
1.ar                                         Business         Loan      Equity    Total
19S4, 1967.    ArT. lectiles Ltd.          Teethe  fug.    6.0           D.6        1.6
1970
196t            Nigeria  Industrial          Dv. Fin. Co.                1.4         .4
Drulopeent lank Ltd.
IS73            Funtua Cottonseed            Vol. oil         '.A                   1.6
Crushing Ltd. Cruhing
1973. 1974    INigeria Alualnur             Aluminum          1.0        D13        1.3
Extrusion Ltd.              Processing
6974            'JLfif JI Sugar             Suier                        0.I        0.1
Estate
19*0           hNTfl                         MeileS           t.2         D:        b.9
1981, I9s       Ike¶a Hotel                  Tourlen         In,3        6.1 '       I.
Ish.            Timer F.a-.v                trv-e..'l          4          -         4 -
S.et eVl.
Total gross coitments                       25.1t       4.5        29.5
ILess cancellations, termin-
tions. repavuents and soes                .17         1.6        h.,
local cotsitrent noxw held by IrC           20.3        2. 
nd:sbursd ..I nI                                        r
* Sot veta niectiwe
:o  The status n! th. pr.mctf  lJTed lr rant A Is described in a separetr
report Pr Ml BankIlL;  financed projects in esecutin. which Is
upoested twice earnlv Ard circulated *r the Etecutivt Drelrtrer on
Aprl: 3' and October 31.
fb Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
tc Balance toe small to be rtflected In this table-



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project: 2 years
(b) Project prepared by: Federal Military Government of Nigeria and
FAO/CP
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: Novemeber 1984
(d) Date of first Bank mission to consider the Prn)Iect: November
1984
(e) Date of departure of the appraisal mission: June 1985
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: May 1986
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: March 19B7.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
1.  The following conditions would be fulfilled prior to loan
effectiveness.
(i) FMG would have established FORMECU and APCU on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 47);
(ii)  FMG would have appointed candidates acceptable to the Bank
for Head and Financial Adviser at FORMECU, and for the
Project Coordinator and Financial Controller at APCU
(para 47);
(iii)  FMG would have opened project accounts on behalf of FORMECU
and APCU and would have made the initial deposits; and at
least two states in FMP and at least three states in AP
would have opened their project accounts and would have made
their initial deposits into their respective project
accounts (para 55);
(iv) At least the five state project unit managers had been
appointed with candidates acceptable to the Bank (para 48);



- 31 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v) Ratification of Project Agreements by at least five states
(para. 48);
2.   Conditions of disbursement would be as follows:
(i) for states participating in the Forest Management Program,
that each state had executed its subsidiary loan agreement
with FMG (para 52).
3.   Other special conditions include the following:
ti) FORMECU would complete a review of the draft National Forest
Policy by December 31, 1987 and prepare a revised draft
policy for comment by the states and the Bank by June 30,
1988. After considering these comments, FMG would
promulgate the National Forestry Policy by December
31, 1988.  FMG would update the Policy annually with the
first update to be completed by June 30, 1990 (para 46(a));
gii) FORMECU would employ consultants by December 31, 1986 to
undertake reviews of the forest revenue systems in the
project states. Draft reviews would be submitted to FMG,
the project states and the Bank for comments by June 30,
1987. Bearing in mind the comments received, each state
would introduce a revised forest revenue system by June 30,
1988. FMG shall, within the limits of its constitutional
powers, take all necessary action to ensure that the
proposed system is adopted by each project state
(para 46(b));
(iii) APCU would prepare a draft National Afforestation
Plan by December 31, 1989J for review by FMG, the
concerned states and the Bank, and that a final
plan would be issued by June 30, 1990
(para 46 (c));
(iv) APCU would complete a draft Household Energy Supply and
Demand Study by December 31, 1987, for
review by FMG, the concerned states and the Bank,
and that a final report would be issued by June
30, 1988. FMG agreed to carry out the
recommendations according to the timetable
contained in the report (para 46 (d));
(v) The states would establisb the state project units on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 48); and
(vi) The states participating in the Afforestation Program would
each establish an Afforestation Committee by December 31,
1987 (para 49).



_______________________  -  -.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  19355
N  0   F   R                                                  I                     _.~Aa.oN                  \
i','SSW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V V    \>
/RATCAMERO1
APAKA                    c    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rg  fImn V  rdZneAtvte
A                                               /                                           ----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S    Rorioo
Gull of Avovo  1                                                       Rues~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
10-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  oooC00
5 E N I N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CME                         C  EFCO                         tr Ruog
Anon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
DECEBERECT






