Document of
The World Bankc
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16532
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND) FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN 2760 - UNI)
APRIL 30, 1997
Agriculture Technical Group 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Naira
US$1.0        =      1.0 Naira (at appraisal, 1986)
US$1.0        =      80.0 Naira (at completion, 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBRE-V1ATI      S AND ACRONYMS
ADP                  -      Agricultural Development Project
AfDB                 -      African Development Bank
AP                   -      Afforestation Program
APCU                 -      Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit
ERR                  -      Economic Rate of Return
FAO                  -      Food and Agriculture Organization
FDF                  -      Federal Department of Forestry
FEPA                 -      Federal Environmental Protection Agency
FGN                  -      Federal Government of Nigeria
FMANR            -   Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
FMDC                 -      Forest Manpower Development Center
FMF                  -      Federal Ministry of Finance
FMP                  -      Forest Management Program
Forestry 11      -   Second Forestry Project
FORMECU          -   Forestry Management Evaluation and Coordinating Unit
FRIN                 -      Forestry Research Institute of Nigeria
FVTC                 -      Forestry Vocational Training Center
IAPSO                -      Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of U.N.
ICR                  -      Implementation Completion Report
LGC(A)           -   Local Government Council (Authority)
MTR                  -      Mid-Term Review
NFAP                 -      Nigerian Forestry Action Program
SAR                  -      Staff Appraisal Report
UAES                 -      Unified Agricultural Extension Services
UNDP                 -      United Nations Development Program
Vice President       Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director             Yaw Ansu
Technical Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
TaskTeam Leader:     Samuel Eremie
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                    | -
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation  Summary.....................................................................................i
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Introduction ................................................lI
Project Objectives ..............2
Achievement of Objectives ..................................................3
Factors Affecting Project .................................................   8
Project Sustainability ..................................................8
Bank Performnance ..................................................9
Borrower Performance ..................................................9
Assessment of Outcome .................................................  10
Future Operations .................................................  10
Key Lessons Learned .................................................  11
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...........  15
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .19
Table 8A: Project Costs ................                                22
Table 8B: Project Financing .....................................................  22
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................  23
Table !0:  Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................   25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .....................  28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................  28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................  29
Appendices
Appendix A:       Completion Mission's Aide-memoire
Appendix B:       Sector-Specific Data
Table 1:      Achievements of the Afforestation Program
Table 2:      Achievements of the Forest Management Program
Appendix C:       Borrower Contribution to the ICR and Comments
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
[LOAN 2760 - UNI]
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Forestry
Project (Forestry II), for which Loan 2760-UNI in the amount of US$71.0 million
equivalent was approved on October21, 1986 and made effective on September 25, 1987. -
2.    The Loan was closed on June 30, 1996, one year behind the original closing date of
June 30, 1995 and was fully disbursed on November 26, 1996.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Mr. Samuel Eremie, AFMNG, and reviewed by Messrs.
Moti B. Rambocus, AFMNG, and Surjit Singh, AFTA2. The Borrower provided
comments on the draft ICR that are included as an appendix to the ICR.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during the joint Bank/Borrower final
supervision and completion mission, September 23 to November 19, 1996. It is based on
material in the project file, field visits to all the project units and discussions with
government officials and project beneficiaries. The Borrower's staff from the Federal
Ministry of Finance (FMF), the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(FMANR), the Forestry Management Evaluation and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU) and
its regional office, the Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit (APCU) participated in
the completion mission. The views of state level officials and those of the Federal
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources have been reflected in the aide-memoire
(Appendix A). A sunmmary of the Borrower's evaluation report and their comments are
included in Appendix C.



-Ih
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
[Loan 2760 - UNTI
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Second Forestry Project (Forestry II), approved in 1986 for a loan of US$71.0
million, was a follow-on project to the Forestry I which was to establish about 22,600 ha of
gmelina plantations to supply pulpwood to the government's proposed Iwopin Pulp and
Paper Mill. The two major lessons of Forestry I, were: (i) existence of a weak sector
policy framework; and (ii) inefficiency in the supply of industrial timber. Forestry II was
designed to address these issues as well as the problem of increasing soil erosion arising
from rapid deforestation, especially in the seiui-arid parts of the country. The loan closed
on June 30, 1996, one year after the original closing date of June 30, 1995 [paras. 1 to 31.
Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives were to: (i) strengthen the structural base of the forestry
sector through improved policies, training, studies and research; (ii) stabilize soil
conditions in threatened areas and increase the supply of fuelwood, poles and fodder; and
(iii) increase the supply of industrial wood. Corresponding to the objectives, the project
components were: (a) Program Management, Training, Policy Analysis, Research and
Studies; (b) Afforestation Program (AP) to establish 1,700 km of shelterbelts to protect
34,000 ha of land, and involve 197,000 farm families in tree planting and maintenance; and
(c) Forest Management Program (FMP) for the improved management of 37,600 ha of
existing plantations and establishment of 3,150 ha of new plantations. The objectives were
relevant for Nigeria's sector strategy of the early eighties as well as the Bank's strategy of
investing in afforestation, soil conservation and fuelwood production. [paras. 4 to 61.
3.    Covenants. The main covenants stipulated in the Loan Agreement were: (i)
provision of adequate counterpart funds; (ii) review of the national forest policy; (iii)
review of the forest revenue systems; (iv) establishment and maintenance of structures for
project implementation, monitoring and evaluation; and (v) conduct of studies and research
to support policy formulation and implementation [para. 7, Table 101.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project Costs. Financing and Timetable. Actual project cost as at November 26,
1996, was US$95.4 million, compared with the mid-term review (MTR) and appraisal
estimates of US$95.0 million and US$110.7 million, respectively. The AP cost US$39.1
million, compared with the MTR estimate of US$45.3 million, while the FMP cost
US$31.6 million as against US$30.7 million. The Prograrn Management component cost
of US$24.7 million was substantially higher than the MTR estimate of US$19.0 million.
The Bank disbursed the full amount of the loan, US$71.0 million. The state governments
contributed US$14.2 million (target was US$10.7 million), while the Federal Government
contributed only US$4.3 million, against the target of US$9.2 million. The benefitting



-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
communities in the AP states contributed about US$3.8 million. The project was
implemented in nine years instead of the eight years estimated at appraisal [parns. 24, 251.
5.    Achievement of Objectives.  The project partially achieved its objectives of
strengthening the structural base of the forestry sector and increasing the supply of
industrial wood, and substantially achieved the objective of stabilizing soil conditions in
parts of northern Nigeria.
6.    Strengthening the Structural Base. The management units were set up early in the
life of the project and were relatively stable except in Kaduna and Ogun FMP, each of
which had six project managers during the life of the project. The Forestry Management
Evaluation and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU) and its regional office, the Afforestation
Program Coordinating Unit (APCU), adequately supervised the 13 state project units, The
irregular meetings of the afforestation committees, however, denied the management of the
units some of the needed policy guidance. Project staff benefitted from about 1,968 short
training courses, 84 percent of them locally. The rapid build up of local staff capacity
enabled a smooth take over of project management from the expatriates after their initial
terms. The research program planned for the AP was poorly executed by inadequately
qualified staff. About 201.4 man-years (appraisal target was 94.5 man-years) of technical
assistance was used for project management, consultancies and studies. The quality of
technical assistance was satisfactory, except in a few cases of local consultant engineers for
civil works who did not adequately supervise the contractors Wparas. 9 to 131.
7.    Four out of the five studies intended to help the government improve sector policy
were completed. The fifth study, the National Afforestation Plan, was suspended because
most of its elements were covered during the preparation of the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP)-funded and Bank-executed Nigerian Forestry Action
Prograrn (NFAP). Although not much improvement in sector policy occured during
implementation, the studies and training under the project provided a foundation for such
improvement, through the: (i) re-orientation of the thinking of state foresters towards the
involvement of the privater sector and communities in the management of the forest estate;
(ii) use of the new forest revenue system in some states to annually revise stumpage fees;
and (iii) application of improved plantation management principles, to varying degrees of
success, in the FMP states. The following outstanding policy issues were identified during
the preparation of the proposed follow-up project (Forestry III): (a) removal of the ban on
the export of logs produced in plantations; (b) elimination of all restrictions on inter-state
trade of legally harvested forest products; (c) full implementation of the improved revenue
systems by the states; (d) adoption of the NFAP at the federal and state level; and (e)
review of national and state forestry legislation. Agreement on these issues, incorporated
in a Letter of Sectoral Policy, was to be a condition for the negotiation of the proposed
Forestry III [paras. 14 to 16, Table 71.
8.    Stabilizing Soil Conditions. A total of 2,083 km of shelterbelts (revised target was
1,718 kim) was established to protect 41,660 ha of agricultural land. Farmers reported the
benefits of the belts to include improved crop yields and the opportunity to incorporate into
the cropping system soil fertility enhancing legumes. About 330,000 farm families were
contacted by the extension services, while awareness of the importance of tree planting and
maintenance was created among 70 percent of the rural population in the project area. The
private sector was assisted to establish 4,882 ha of woodlots and the women organized into



groups to establish orchards and woodlots, and fabricate and use improved wood-burning
stoves. The AP produced 130.9 million seedlings (target was 49.2 million), ten percent of
it through the private sector. About 95 percent of the 118 million seedlings produced in the
project nurseries was distributed to farmers [paras. 17 to 20, Appendix B].
9.    Increasing the Supply of Industrial Wood. Improved management principles,
involving fire protection, inventorization and thinning, were applied in the FMP
plantations. About 7,535 ha (target was 10,167 ha) of plantations were thinned. Thinning
of the gmelina plantations was hampered in Ogun and Ondo states by the non-completion
of the government's Iwopin Mill which was to have utilized most of the pulpwood
produced. The two states also concentrated on the African Development Bank (AfDB)
new planting program at the expense of the plantation management program, resulting to a
very slow disbursement of that component of the loan. The project exceeded the plantation
establishment target of 4,950 ha and the plantation roads facilitated trade for the
neighbouring communities. New planting was done largely in degraded portions of the
forest reserves and did not involve resettlement [paras. 21 to 23, Appendix B].
10.   Factors Affecting Implementation. Project implementation was adversely affected
by: (i) inadequate counterpart funding, especially by the Federal Government; (ii)
management instability in FMP states, notably Kaduna and Ogun; (iii) irregular meeting of
the afforestation committees; (iv) lack of market for the gmelina thinnings, arising from the
non-completion of the Iwopin Mill; (v) political and fuel crises; (vi) weak policy
formulation and implementation capacity; and (vii) procurement delays. On the positive
side, the technical support given the states by FORMECUIAPCU and the increasing
involvement of communities and individuals in afforestation activities facilitated
implementation [paras. 26 to 28].
11.   Bank Performance.   The performance of the Bank in project appraisal and
implementation was rated satisfactory by the Borrower and the imnplementing units. The
implementation strategies were modified after the MTR to emphasize private sector
participation. Bank supervision missions helped generate executive support for the project
units. A few units expressed dissatisfaction with the delays associated with procurement
through the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO), an alterfative
recommended by the Bank in the interest of simplifying the process [para. 311.
12.   Borrower Performance. The Borrower's performance was generally satisfactory.
Government support for afforestation is demonstrated through the personal involvement of
the Head of State in the annual tree planting campaign and in the technical support given to
the states by FORMECU/APCU. Most of the loan covenants were complied with, except
those relating to adequate counterpart funding, especially by the Federal Government, and
the regular meeting of the afforestation committees. With a few exceptions, the states
adequately funded the project although the releases were often late [para. 321.
13.   Project Sustainability. The awareness created among policy makers and the rural
population on the importance of tree planting, the increasing involvement of communities
and individuals in afforestation activities, the integration of afforestation extension into the
unified agricultural extension services (UAES), the staff capacity built for project
implementation, and the strong counterpart funding support of the state governments,
suggest that the benefits of the AP will be sustainable. The FMP could also be sustained if



iv
private sector participation is encouraged. The sustainability of the Ogun and Ondo FMP
is strongly linked to the completion of the Iwopin Mill, which is uncertain. The historical
experience of poor Federal Government counterpart funding dictates that FORMECU will
need to rationalize its operations and staff strength if it is to continue to provide technical
support to the states. The federal and state governments have indicated interest in
continuing with the project and plan to seek financial support from a variety of sources.
Overall, the sustainability of the project is uncertain Iparas. 29, 301.
14.   PMject Outcome, The outcome of the project is satisfactory, considering the
achievements in tree planting, the involvement of the private sector, the build up of
implementation capacity, and the re-estimated economic rates of return (ERR) of 16.7
percent for the FMP and 19.8 percent for the AP, which compare favorably with the
appraisal estimates of 17.0 percent and 15.0 percent, respectively jparas. 33, 34].
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.   Key Findings of Implementation Experience. The key findings of implementation
experience are that: (i) Private sector participation in project activities facilitates
implementation and enhances the chances of sustainability of the benefits, as in the AP
after the MTR; (ii) a weak policy enviromnent as well as poorly-defined implementation
arrangements where different donors are involved, hinder implementation, as in Ogun and
Ondo states with the Bank and the AfDB; and (iii) projects that aim to supply raw
materials for potential future users stand a considerable risk that the envisaged markets do
not materialize, as in Ogun and Ondo states [paras. 18, 22, 291.
16.   Future Operations. The operational plans prepared by the project (Appendix A)
appropriately reflect a commitment to prioritize activities, increase private sector
participation, and seek financial assistance from non-traditional sources. The effectiveness
of the plans will, however, depend on continued federal and state government financial and
policy support, including the implementation of a forest revenue system and marketing
arrangements that would encourage private sector participation. The proposed Forestry III
intends to build on the lessons of implementation and would accordingly focus on
enhancing the capacity of the public sector to manage forest resources under its control,
supporting private sector involvement in managing forest resources, and promoting the
adoption of improved policies [paras. 35, 36, Table 61.
17.   Key Lessons for Future Projects.  For future related projects, the Bank and the
Borrower need to: (i) ensure that a conducive policy environment exists or will be created
within an agreed time frame before investing in forestry development; (ii) identify and
involve all stakeholders of a project from the planning stage and through the
implementation and evaluation stages. A sense of ownership has to be created among the
stakeholders to encourage a commitment to implementation and enhance project
sustainability; (iii) firmly establish from the beginning of a project, the collaboration
among different agencies involved in the project; and (iv) ensure that future projects,
particularly for long gestation activities such as afforestation and forestry plantations, are
designed as time slices of a long term commitment. This promotes a long termn perspective
among the implementors and allows subsequent phases of a project to benefit from the
experience of the previous ones [para. 371.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
[CREDIT 2760 - UNI]
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    The Second Forestry Project (Forestry II) which was approved in 1986 for a loan of
US$71.0 million, was a follow-on project to Forestry I (US$31.0 million, 1979). Between
1976 and 1979, the Federal Ministry of Industries had established, through the state
departments of forestry, about 12,638 ha of gmelina plantations in Ogun and Ondo states to
supply pulpwood to the government's proposed Iwopin Pulp and Paper Mill. Forestry I was
to support the establishment of about 22,600 ha of gmelina plantations to augment the supply
of pulpwood to the mill, then under construction. By mid-1986 when the Forestry I loan
closed, about 70 percent of the gmelina planting target had been met, but the mill was yet to
be completed because of the financial pressures on Nigeria in the early eighties and a
reconsideration of the viability of the mill by the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN).
2.    Concurrent with the thrust at industrial plantations, increasing concern about the rate
of desertification in northern Nigeria prompted the FGN to establish an Arid Zone
Afforestation Project in 1977. During the period 1979-84, the forestry departments in the five
affected states raised 55.5 million seedlings, 90 percent of which was distributed free to the
public for farm and village planting. The rest of the seedlings were used by forestry staff to
establish about 4,500 ha of shelterbelts and plantations. A center for vocational training in
arid zone forestry was also established in Kano. The project was terminated by the FGN in
1984 because of funding shortfalls.
3.    The implementation of Forestry I provided two main lessons: (i) the policy framework
for the sector was weak and needed strengthening; and (ii) there was need to improve the
efficiency of resource use in the supply of industrial timber. From the government's Arid
Zone Project, the following lessons also emerged: (a) the weak linkages between the farm
forestry component and the state extension services made it difficult to determine the farmers'
needs for seedlings. Most of the seedlings distributed were discarded by the farmners or
destroyed by livestock after planting. The communities, however, respected and protected the
shade and fruit trees; (b) the failure rate in the shelterbelts was high because of poor site
selection; and (c) weak forestry policies, especially, regarding the responsibilities of the state
and local govermnents, licencing and stumpage fees, undermined project implementation.
Forestry 11 was designed with these considerations in mind. Identified in 1982, it was
prepared by the Food and Agriculture (FAO) Cooperative Program in 1983 and appraised in
June 1985 after additional preparation work by the borrower. The loan was expected to close
on June 30, 1995 but it actually closed one year later on June 30, 1996, and was fully
disbursed on November 26, 1996.



2
Project Objectives
4.    The main objectives of Forestry 11 as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were:
(i) on a national level, to strengthen the structural base of the sector through
improved policies, training, studies and research;
(ii) in the northern and central regions of the country, to stabilize soil conditions in
threatened areas and to increase the supply of fuelwood, poles and fodder through
farm forestry and shelterbelt activities; and
(iii) in the southern and central region, to increase the supply of industrial wood by
improving the management of existing forest reserves and plantations and
establishing new plantations.
5.    Corresponding with the objectives, the main components were: (i) Management,
Training, Policy Analysis, Research and Studies, to provide technical assistance (about 94.5
staff years), vehicles, equipment and materials for the management, training, policy analysis,
research and studies activities of the project; (ii) Afforestation Program (AP), to support a
farm forestry program that would involve about 197,000 farm families in tree planting and
maintenance on farm land, and a shelterbelt program to establish 1,700 km of shelterbelts to
protect about 34,000 ha of farm land; and (iii) Forest Management Program (FMP), to assist
in the improved management of about 37,600 ha of existing industrial plantations and the
establishment of 3,150 ha of new plantations.
6.    The project objectives were realistic and in line with Nigeria's interim sector strategy
of the early eighties whose main elements included, the development of an appropriate policy
framework, support of afforestation and watershed management programs, and improvement
of the supply of industrial timber. The objectives were also consistent with the initiatives in
the Bank's report, Toward Sustained Development in Sub-Saharan Africa (September 1984),
which emphasized investments in afforestation, soil conservation and fuelwood production.
A mid-term review (MTR) in 1991 maintained the project objectives and components but
slightly modified the implementation strategies and physical targets in line with experience
gained during project implementation.
7.    Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Apart from the general covenants relating
to work plans, budgets and audits, the Loan Agreement required: (i) the provision of adequate
counterpart funds by the state and federal governments; (ii) a review of the National Forest
Policy; (iii) reviews of the forest revenue systems in each of the project states; (iv)
establishment and maintenance of satisfactory structures for project implementation,
monitoring and evaluation; and (v) the conduct of studies and research to support policy
formulation and project implementation. Most of the covenants were complied with except
those relating to the provision of adequate and timely counterpart funds, the regularity of
meeting of the project executive committees and the conduct of some studies and research.
The status of compliance to covenants is provided in Table 10.



l   l   l   l   l   |   |   |   |   R   u   -   -   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~-i
3
Achievement of Objectives
8.    Strengthening the Structural Base of the Sector. The project aimed to strengthen the
structural base of the forestry sector through improved program management, training,
research, studies and policies.
9.    Program Management. The management units of the project (involving 13 states and
two federal coordinating units) were established early in the life of the project. There was
little political interference in the management of most of the AP units, and local staff
smoothly took over from the expatriate coordinators after their initial terms. However, the
infrequent meeting of the Afforestation Committee that was to provide policy guidance,
denied the management the needed support in many AP states. There was high management
instability in Ogun and Kaduna FMP, each of which had six managers during the life of the
project. Undue political interference in the procurement process in Kaduna resulted in several
unpaid local contracts at the end of the loan.
10.   The Forestry Management Evaluation and Coordinating Unit (FORMECU) and its
regional office, the Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit (APCU) coordinated and
supervised Forestry II as well as other donor-assisted projects. The new monitoring system
introduced by the project in 1993 tried to capture physical and economic progress in
implementation and led to a considerable improvement in the quality of the periodic reports,
although the reports were often submitted late because of delayed submissions by the states
and the inability of FORMECU/APCU staff to make more frequent field visits due to local
funding constraints. FORMECU restructured its management in order to increase its capacity
to respond to the technical support requirements of the states and the Federal Departmnent of
Forestry (FDF). It also successfully relocated its headquarters from Ibadan to the federal
capital, Abuja. For over one year, the linkage between FORMECU and APCU was weakened
when the FGN placed APCU under the supervision of the Federal Environmental Protection
Agency (FEPA). The Governing Board for FORMECU, which is chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture, met only four times (target was 17) mainly because of frequent changes of
ministers.
11.   Training. Project staff benefitted from 1,968 short training courses, 84 percent of
them locally. The training was particularly helpful in ensuring smooth transition from
expatriates to nationals in the management of the project, and in orienting the staff towards
social forestry and community participation. The two training centers, the Forest Manpower
Development Center (FMDC) and the Forestry Vocational Training Center (FVTC), provided
technical skills to a wide range of staff of public and private forestry establishments.
Unfortunately, the two centers were unable to attain a sufficient level of cost recovery because
of the dwindling number of course participants due to the downturn in the economy. The
installation of the equipment for training on the utilization of small diameter logs at the Forest
Utilization Center Benin, was not completed before the end of the loan.
12.   Rearc . The output of the research program for the AP was of low quality. The
program was implemented by poorly qualified staff in the states while coordination by APCU
was weak. One outcome of the work done, however, was the standardization of the polythene



4
pots and potting mixture for raising seedlings throughout the AP states. A memorandum of
understanding for technical support was only signed with the Forestry Research Institute of
Nigeria (FRIN) towards the end of the project, and a diagnostic survey of afforestation was
the major product of the collaboration. FORMECU, however, made strong technical input
towards Nigeria's entry into the international conventions on Biodiversity (1992) and
Desertification (1995), as well as the International Neem Network (1994). International Neem
provenance trials coordinated by FORMECU were going on in most AP states at the close of
the project. The trials were in response to the Neem Decline Disease observed in many parts
of northern Nigeria in the early nineties.1
13.   Technical Assistance. As against the appraisal target of 72 man years, about 192 man-
years were used for the management of the project. The Bank had in 1991 approved an
increase in the number of internationally recruited staff positions to take care of more
specializations in FORMECU as well as the management of the project in the newly created
states. Only 40 man-years were utilized by expatriates since Nigerians, many of whom started
as counterparts, smoothly took over from the expatriates after the first term. About 9.4 man-
years were utilized by the project for consultancies and studies, compared with the target of
22.5 man-years, mainly because some of the studies were done inhouse by FORMECU staff.
The quality of the technical assistance was satisfactory, except in a few cases of local
consultant engineers for civil works who did not adequately supervise the contractors.
14.   Studies and Policv. To help the government improve sector policy, the project
provided for five major studies: (i) review of the draft National Forest Policy; (ii) preparation
of a National Forest Revenue System; (iii) preparation of a long term National Afforestation
Plan; (iv) Northern Nigeria Household Energy Supply and Demand; and (v) preparation of a
follow-up project. Although delayed, all the studies were done, except the National
Afforestation Plan whose key elements were covered by the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP)-funded and Bank-executed Nigerian Forestry Action Programn (NFAP).
Forestry lII, a follow-up project to Forestry 11, was prepared by FORMECU in 1993 and pre-
appraised by the Bank, but further action was suspended because of unfavorable macro-
economic policies being instituted. Sixteen other studies were completed (Table 7).
15.   The initial review of the draft National Forest Policy was completed in 1992 after the
publication of the National Policy on Agriculture, which included forestry. Reviews are still
going on at the federal and state levels but these have not been translated into concrete policy
changes. Although not much improvement in sector policy occured during implementation,
the studies, training and seminars organized under the project provided a foundation for such
improvement in a number of directions: (i) there is a rethink among state foresters about the
involvement of the private sector and communities in the management of the forest estate.
The participatory approach to forest estate establishment and management has been seen to
work in the AP states since after the MTR of the project and even in the FMP states, private
plantations are being encouraged on a pilot basis, especially in Kaduna and Kogi states. In the
AP states, farmer preferences are now taken into consideration in seedling production and in
Neem (Azdirach:a indica), introduced to Nigeria from India, is one of two major species used in shelterbelts
and woodlots and as shade tree in most of the AP states. The other principal tree specie is Eucalyptus.



5
the location and planting patterns of shelterbelts and woodlots; (ii) a model for the reformn of
the forest revenue system was formulated in 1993 and is being applied in some states to
annually revise stumpage fees, although the rates are still lower than the economic rates. A
Forest Trust Fund has been approved and some payments made into it in some states, but
modalities have not been worked out for the utilization of the funds; (iii) the improved
plantation management principles of inventorization, demarcation of lots, and sustainable
harvesting are being implemented in the four FMP states to varying degrees of success.
Inadequate counterpart funding and undeveloped market outlets are the major limiting factors;
and (iv) through the NFAP, whose preparation involved a broader spectrum of the
stakeholders in forestry development, a concensus on forest policy issues is emerging.
16.   The following outstanding sector policy issues had been identified for resolution or
action under the proposed Forestry III: (i) removal of the ban on the export of logs produced
on plantations or by private growers. There is currently a ban on the export of teak (Tectona
grandis) logs which are in demand in the export market; (ii) elimination of all restrictions,
fees and taxes on inter-state trade and transport of legally harvested forest products. Some
states still mount road blocks to collect fees on such products and compel transporters to take
longer routes to the markets. The two restrictions on trade and export are believed to
artificially depress producer prices for wood, reduce the incentive to plant trees, and
encourage inefficiency in the domestic log processing industry; (iii) full implementation of
the new revenue system by the states to generate sufficient income for the sustainable
management of forest resources; (iv) adoption of the Forestry Action Plans at the national and
state level to ensure coordinated policy and strategy for forestry development. The NFAP
whose preparation was concluded in 1995 is yet to be ratified by the National Council on
Agriculture; and (v) review and rationalization of federal and state forestry legislation and
regulations. Rationalization will remain a problem for some time considering that forest
estates are constitutionally owned by the states and Federal Government role in the exercise
will only be effective to the extent to which federal funds are available to back up the reforms.
Agreement on the above issues, incorporated in a Letter of Sectoral Policy, was to be a
condition for the negotiation of the proposed Forestry III project. Bank's operational policies
on Forestry would have been integrated into the new project.
17.   Stabilizing Soil Conditions in Threatened Areas and Increasing Supply of Forest
Products. The AP was to support a shelterbelt program to protect farm lands threatened by
wind and soil erosion and a farm forestry program that would involve farn families in
planting and maintaining trees on farm land. Table I in Appendix B gives details of the
achievements in the AP.
18.   Shelterbelts. The 2,083 km of shelterbelts established in the project area represented
121 percent of the revised target of 1,718 k1m, and are expected to protect 41,660 ha of
agricultural land against erosion. The tree survival rate in the belts was between 60 and 80
percent. In parts of Sokoto and Yobe states, the shelterbelts have led to the remarkable
recovery of sand dune devastated settlements and farm land. The opportunity of incorporating
into the cropping system soil fertility enhancing crops, such as groundnut and cowpea, and
improved crop yield (up to 50 percent for millet) were reported by farmers as some of the
benefits of the shelterbelts. After the MTR, the project units increasingly involved the local



6
communities in the selection of shelterbelt sites, tree species and planting configurations,
stressing the community's ownership of the belts. This led to a reduction in the compensation
paid for the land and to increased community participation in the protection of the trees. The
use of paid guards was tried as an alternative to wire fencing for the protection of trees. It was
not very successful. The use of live fencing and social fencing, involving community
arrangements for control of livestock damage, is now being explored by some states.
19.   Fart E E trys  The project, in collaboration with the Agricultural Development
Projects (ADPs) operating the unified agricultural extension services (UAES), directly
reached 330,000 farmn families, about 168 percent of the target of contact farners, with advice
on tree planting and maintenance. Awareness was also created among some 70 percent of the
population in the project area on the importance of trees through media and annual tree
planting campaigns. About 4,882 ha of woodlots were established by individual farmers and
communities to protect their farms and increase fuelwood and fodder supply. Project staff
observed that the number of trees left standing in farms was higher than the three per hectare
estimated at appraisal, but the data is insufficient to confirmn if it is significant. Women were
also organized into groups to produce seedlings, plant orchards and woodlots, and fabricate
and use improved wood-burning stoves. Over 3,500 stoves were distributed among the rural
women in the project area.
20.   In support of the AP activities, 130.9 million seedlings were produced as against the
target of 49.2 million, with the private sector accounting for about ten percent of the
production. Provision had been made at appraisal for increased seedling production in the
event of success in generating farmer involvement in the AP. The involvement of the private
sector in seedling production increased after the MTR with the project providing technical
advice, nursery tools and fencing material. About 95 percent of the 118 million seedlings
produced in the project nurseries were distributed for farm forestry activities, including the
annual tree planting campaigns, and the rest for the shelterbelt and research programs. The
issue of responsibility in tree seedling production between the AP units and the ADPs was
resolved by limiting the ADPs to the production of fiuit tree seedlings. Under the proposed
Forestry III, it was intended that both agencies would de-emphasize direct production of
seedlings but provide technical assistance to the private sector for the purpose. Authenticated
data on the impact of the AP in stabilizing soil conditions and improving fuelwood supply in
the semi-arid parts of Nigeria may become available at the conclusion of the impact study of
Forestry II being financed by the Bank-assisted Environmental Management Project. The
study commenced at the end of 1996.
21.   Increasing the Supply of Industrial Wood The increased supply of industrial wood
was to be achieved through improved management of about 37,600 ha of pre-project
plantations, out of a national total of about 150,000 ha, as well as the establishment of about
3,150 ha of new plantations in Kaduna and Kogi states. Ogun and Ondo states were excluded
from the new planting program because they were under consideration by the African
Development Bank (AfDB) for the establishment of 12,000 ha of new gmelina plantations.
Table 2 in Appendix B lists the achievements in the FMP.



7
22.   Management of Existing Plantations. There was modest success in the management of
the existing plantations due mainly to a weak policy and market environment. The four states
together achieved 66 percent of the plantation inventory target of 10,942 ha, 83 percent of the
roads maintenance target of 3,226 km and 74 percent of the thinning target of 10,167 ha.
Although no revenue targets were set at appraisal, about N 60.0 rnillion (US$0.8 million
equivalent) was realized by the project units from the sale of poles, posts and firewood from
thinning. The amount would have been substantially higher given an improved forest revenue
regime that allows appropriate pricing of plantation and natural forest wood products. The
gmelina plantations thinning program in Ogun and Ondo states was particularly affected by
the non-completion of the Iwopin Mill which was to have utilized most of the pulp trees. The
managements of the project in the two states also concentrated on the AfDB new planting
program at the expense of the plantation management programn, resulting in slow loan
disbursement until almost the close of the loan. The implementation experience raises the
need for better donor assistance coordination in future projects. Although towards the end of
the project the Bank and AfDB agreed to have joint supervision missions, this did not happen.
23.   Establishment of New Plantations. The performance of the states in the establishment
of new plantations was more impressive. About 5,073 ha of teak, pine and eucalyptus species
were planted, in excess of the revised target of 4,650 ha. Earlier, a supervision mission had
allowed Ogun and Ondo states to plant a total of 1,500 ha of the more marketable teak specie
in the heavily degraded portions of the existing gmelina plantations. The two states met 92
percent of the target. The new plantations program did not involve resettlement and was
concentrated on portions of the forest reserves already degraded tlhrough encroachment by
farms. Satisfactory relations were maintained with the neighbouring communities whose
movement and trading activities were boosted by the plantation roads. They also had easier
access to fuelwood and were employed as casual labor in the plantations. In return, the
communities helped protect the plantations against fire and participated in the taungya system,
where farmers grow arable crops along with forest tree species on cleared forest land till the
trees have formed a canopy and arable cropping is not feasible. The taungya system is
believed to reduce the cost of plantation establishment but no studies were done in this regard.
The management of the Kaduna and Kogi projects encouraged the establisment of 70 ha and
10 ha, respectively, of private plantations.
24.   Project Costs. Financing and Timetable. Project costs (Table 8A) as at November 26,
1996, when the last loan disbursement was made, stood at about US$95.4 million, close to the
US$95.0 million estimated during the MTR, but substantially lower than the appraisal
estimate of US$110;7 million. The AP component cost US$39.1 million, compared with the
MTR estimate of US$45.3 million, while the FMP component cost US$31.6 million, close to
the US$30.7 million estimated at the MTR. The program management component cost
US$24.7 million which is 127 percent of the MTR estimated cost. The foreign costs totalling
US$37.5 million were 39 percent of actual total cost.
25.   The Bank loan of US$71.0 million financed 74 percent of actual project cost, very
close to the MTR target of 75 percent. The state governments together provided US$14.2
million, 133 percent of the MTR expectation of US$10.7 million. The appraisal estimate of
states contribution was US$12.0 million. In spite of the reduction of FGN contribution from



8
US$27.7 million to US$9.2 million during the MTR, actual contribution was only US$4.3
million (Table 8B). The depreciation of. the local currency against the dollar was partly
responsible for this performance. The release of the amounts budgeted by both the state and
federal governments was often late. The communities contributed US$3.8 million equivalent
(MTR target is US$4.1 million) through their participation in seedling production and tree
planting, especially in the AP states. Due to delays at start-up, and problems of counterpart
funding and procurement, the project was implemented in nine years as compared with the
eight years estimated at appraisal.
Factors Affecting the Project
26.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were: (i) inadequate counterpart
funding; (ii) management instability in some FMP states; (iii) irregular meeting of the
afforestation committees; (iv) lack of market for gmelina thinnings; (v) political and fuel
crises; (vi) weak policy formulation and implementation capacity; and (vii) procurement
delays. With some exceptions within the last factor, all were within governmnent control.
27.   FGN counterpart fund contribution was very inadequate. While state contributions
were more generous, the release of approved funds was untimely in both cases, leading to
delays in field operations. The frequent changes of project management staff by the
governments of Kaduna and Ogun states, clearly delayed implementation in Ogun, while the
effect was less noticeable in Kaduna because most of the new managers came from within the
project. The irregular meeting of the executive committees at both the state and federal
government levels denied the project the needed support of the chief executives at the two
levels, and permitted interference in project management by individual senior government
officials. The situation was worsened by the delays in policy formulation and implementation
at the federal and state levels which this project had tried to address, albeit unsuccessfully, as
earlier highlighted.
28.   The non-completion by the government of the pulp plant at the Iwopin Mill during the
project, seriously affected the management plans in Ogun and Ondo states, which had mainly
gmelina plantations. The studies on marketing of gmelina conducted under the project and
the attempts by some states to process gmelina logs into furniture did not yield the desired
results as the saw-millers did not have small diameter log mills and still had ready access to
preferred wood species. Delays in procurement were mainly due to inadequate counterpart
funding, difficult government procedures for the clearing of imported goods, and the
incompetence of some contractors and consultants for the civil works. For about four years,
procurement under the FORMECU component was also affected by the loss of part of the
funds under its Special Account through the winding up of its correspondant bank. Part of the
funds remained unrecovered at the end of the project in spite of the efforts put in by
FORMECU and the Bank in this regard. The political and fuel crises that prevailed during
1992 to 1995 delayed construction activities and raised local costs, especially for staff travel.
Project Sustainability
29.   The project has created awareness among policy makers and about 70 percent of the
population in the project area, on the importance of tree planting, natural regeneration of trees



9
and community participation. Under the AP, communities have been encouraged to take a
share of the responsibility for raising seedlings and planting and protecting trees. Linkages
have also been established between the AP and the ADP to sustain the agro-forestry extension
effort under the UAES. Substantial capacity has been built, mainly through staff training , for
forest management and data has been generated for better interventions in future. The project
has also catalyzed public and other donor (such as UNDP) investment in forestry that would
have been impossible otherwise. The chances are high that the AP activities would be
sustained considering the increasing participation of the private sector.
30.   The sustainability of the Ogun and Ondo FMP is strongly linked to the completion of
the lwopin Mill, which is uncertain, or the development of alternative markets for gmelina
logs. The FMP could be sustained if private sector involvement in plantation management
and product processing and marketing are encouraged, and if the state governments allowed
the project a greater share of the revenue generated for meeting operating costs. The FGN has
indicated interest in maintaining FORMECU, but the unit would need to rationalize its
operations and staff strength if it is to continue to provide quality technical support to the
forestry sector under conditions of dwindling public funding. The sustainability of the
benefits of the project will depend very much on government's willingness to review
comprehensively sector policy and regulations, clearly define responsibilities for the different
tiers of government and the private sector, and adequately finance development activities in
the sector. At this juncture, the sustainability of the project is uncertain.
Bank Performance
31.   Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation were rated satisfactory by
the Borrower and the implementing units. The Bank demonstrated considerable flexibility by:
(i) modifying the implementation strategies during the MTR to encourage more private sector
participation and allow better performing AP states to draw faster on loan resources by
pooling the balance of loan funds; and (ii) allowing three formal reallocations of the proceeds
of the loan as well as one extension of the closing date. Supervision was fairly regular and the
missions helped to generate executive support for the project units.  A few project units
expressed dissatisfaction with the quality of service provided by the Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Office (LAPSO), an alternative recommended by the Bank in the
interest of simplifying the procurement process. It is claimed that procurements through
IAPSO were generally delayed.  The slow implementation of the Ogun and Ondo
components, which also had AfDB assistance, demonstrates the need for the Bank to pay
closer attention in future projects to implementation arrangements and to the Borrower's
demonstrated commitment to such arrangements.
Borrower Performance
32.   The FGN demonstrated its support for the project by the direct involvement of the
Head of State in the Annual Tree Planting Campaign organized jointly by the project and
FDF. The Borrower complied with most of the loan covenants, with the exception of those
relating to the timely release of adequate counterpart funds and the regular meeting of the
project executive committees. The coordinating units, FORMECU and APCU, facilitated



10
project implementation by providing technical support to the states. The states demonstrated
their ownership of the project by generously funding it but the releases were often late. Many
states were weak in implementing the policies and regulations for the sustainable management
of the forest resources, especially, as related to the controlled exploitation of the resources and
a responsive forest revenue system.
Assessment of Outcome
33.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. It partially achieved the objectives
of improving the supply of industrial wood and strengthening the structural base of the
forestry sector, and substantially achieved the objective of stabilizing soil conditions in parts
of the country threatened by erosion. The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) for the
AP of 19.8 percent cxceeded the 15.0 percent estimated at appraisal and the .AP has high
chances of sustainability because of the substantial private sector participation in project
activities. The benefits of the AP derive from three main sources: (i) incremental crop
production from the shelterbelts-protected farm lands; (ii) fuelwood and poles from the
thinning of shelterbelts and woodlots; and (iii) fruits from the orchards.
34.   The ERR of 16.7 percent for the FMP is close to the appraisal estimate of 17.0
percent. The benefits derivable from the plantations include: (i) in Kogi - thinning of teak at
age 10 to produce fuelwood only, at age 20 to produce transmission poles and fuelwood, and
final harvest at age 30 to produce sawlogs and fuelwood; (ii) in Kaduna - harvest of teak to
produce sawlogs and fuelwood, thinning of eucalyptus for fuelwood and poles, and harvest of
pine at age 20 for pulp; and (iii) in Ogun and Ondo- thinning of gmelina mainly to produce
pulpwood for the Iwopin Mill as fuelwood quality of the specie is poor, and teak to produce
sawlogs and fuelwood. The ERR for the FMP would be lower if the Iwopir Mill is not
commissioned soon but could be raised if the government fully implements the new forest
revenue system and encourages private sector participation in plantation management.
Future Operations
35.   The operational plans prepared by the project units (annex to Appendix A) adequately
reflect a commitment to: (i) prioritize activities; (ii) increase private sector participation in
project activities; (iii) seek financial assistance from non-traditional sources, such as the
Ecological Fund, the Forest Trust Fund, LGCs and bi-lateral donors; (iv) increase cost
recovery and internally generated revenue; and (v) rationalize operations and staffing. The
federal and state governments have also given assurances of their continued support to the
project activities. The effectiveness of the operational plans will, however, depend on
government demonstration of this commitment through adequate and timely funding, as well
as the implementation of a forest revenue system and marketing arrangements that would
encourage private sector participation. The key performance indicators during the operational
phase are shown in Table 6.
36.   The proposed Forestry III (US$60 million) intended to build upon the lessons of
implementation of Forestry II and its objectives were to: (i) enhance the capacity of public
sector institutions to manage forest resources under their control and to provide effective
support to expanded private forestry activities; (ii) support private and community



involvement in tree planting and forestry resource management; and (iii) promote the full
adoption of the forest revenue systems and of market liberalization for plantation logs. Better
forest reserve management was considered the cornerstone of the development strategy. It
was expected to involve all stakeholders, provide income to support sustainable management
activities, improve producer prices for trees and efficiency in processing, and create incentives
for private sector participation supported by improved policies. The objectives were to be
achieved through a Social Forestry Program, a Protective Afforestation Program, and a Forest
Reserve Management Program.
Key Lessons Learned
37.   The following key lessons have emerged from the implementation of Forestry II for
the Bank and the Borrower: (i) a conducive policy environment is essential for sustainable
forestry resource development. The fluid policy environment at the national and state levels
and the delays in policy implementation severely limited the achievements of the project; (ii)
projects that aim to supply raw materials for potential future users are at considerable risk as
the envisaged markets may not materialize. The Ogun and Ondo components and the Iwopin
Mill are a clear example; (iii) the public sector is not well suited for production activities and
there is a need for greater effort in the identification and involvement of all the stakeholders of
a project from the planning stage and through the implementation and evaluation stages.
Private sector contribution to the project increased substantially after the MTR when the
benefitting communities were encouraged to participate in implementation; (iv) future
projects should create a sense of ownership among the stakeholders to ensure support for
implementation and the sustainability of the activities. The state governments who were the
statutory owners of the forest estates were more supportive of the project than the FGN. Also,
the farmers who had uprooted tree seedlings planted in project shelterbelts assiduously
protected their fruit trees, compound trees, woodlots and free standing farm trees. Creating a
sense of ownership requires, among others, involving the stakeholders in the decision making
process, including the choice of species, the configurations and locations for tree planting,
management of the forest estate, and the sharing of the forest products; (v) collaboration
among different agencies, such as the AP states and FRIN, need to be firmly and contractually
established from the beginning of the project; (vi) there must be agreement among donor
agencies, such as the Bank and AfDB, on sector policies and project objectives to avoid the
kind of problems encountered in Ogun and Ondo states; and (vii) future projects, particularly
for long gestation activities such as afforestation and forestry plantation, should be designed
as time slices (three to four years) of a long term commitment. The mission observed a sense
of abrupt ending for Forestry II among the state governments and the project staff, in spite of
its having lasted for over eight years. The design of projects in phases would enable the
subsequent phases benefit from the experience of the previous ones.



12
PART 11: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Sumniary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        S   atj           Partia]        NcSg1ei&k
Macro Policies                                                      E]
Sector Policies                    [0                                                 [J
Financial Objectives               []              [                                  RI
Institutional Development          I3              0                0                 0
Physical Objectives                                F) O) O                    
Poverty Reduction                  0                 3              E0                 C
Gender Issues                      0               E0                0                0
Other Social Objectives            I               0                F]
Environmental Objectives           El              E                 0                 C
Public Sector Management                                                              E] 0  a  o
Private Sector Development          0               0               E                 El
Other (specify)                     0] 0                              F
B.    diNLSaUi=i                       Likely                 Unliley                    Mnce
(/)                      (/)                        (.)
0                        5                         0



13
C R ank Performancse                  satisfym              Saisact                     Deficin
(1)                      (e)                       (1)
Identification                        ]                                                C]
Preparation Assistance               a                                                 ci
Appraisal                            D                        0                        E
Supervision                          a                       E
D.     BofrQwer Perfonznance                   satisfacU0     Satis            j2eficient
(1)             (/)             (~/)
Preparation                                   Cl                                ] 0
Inplementation                               El              0               El
Covenant Compliance                           E               0              Ea
Operation (if applicable)                    0                a               a
Highbl                                             kg
E. Assesnmentof Outcom,                aafacLay     Satiifactory    Unsai   YiM       unsatisfa=ry
(/)()                    (/)                       (/)
Ol              0                0                 0



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title              Purpose                      Approval       Status
Preceecding Operations
1.   Ln. 1455-UNI, Ayangba ADP       Integrated Rural Dev.            1977      Completed
2.    Ln. 1679-UNI, Forestry I       Forestry Plantation Dev.         1979
3.    Ln. 1981 -UNI, Bauchi ADP      Integrated Rural Dev.            1981
4.    Ln. 1982-UINI, Kano ADP                                         1981
5.    Ln. 2185-UNI, Sokoto ADP                                        1982
6.    Ln. 2436-UNI, Kaduna ADP                                        1984
7.    Ln. 2733-UNI, MSADP I                                           1986
Following OperatiQns
I.    Ln. 2988-UNI, MSADP 11                                          1988
2.    Cr. 2035-UNI, MSADP III                     "                   1989
3.    Cr. 2353-UNI, Environ. Mgt.    Environmental Management         1992        On going
4.    La. 3483-UTNI, Agric. Tech.    Extension/Adaptive Research      1992



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date Actual I
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned             Latest Estimate
Identification (EPS)                                      August 12, 1982
Preparation                                               November 1982
Pre-appraisal                                             July 1983
Appraisal                        June 1985                June 1985
Negotiations                     April 1986               June 1986
Board presentation               October 1986             October 21, 1986
Signing                          March 1987               March 27, 1987
Effectiveness                    March 31, 1987           September 25, 1987
Mid-term review                                   _       June 1991
Project completion               December 31, 1994        November 26, 1996
Loan closing                     June 30, 1995            June 30, 1996
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year     FY88   FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92    FY93   FY94    FY95    FY96    FY9
Appraisal estimate     7.4    5.4     6.9    10.9   16.5    12.4    9.0     2.5
Cumulative             7.4   12.8    19.7    30.6   47.1    59.5   68.5    71.0
Actual (a)             1.3    2.6     8.3    13.4   10.6     8.7    10.0   10.7     3.3     2.1
Cumulative             1.3    3.9    12.2    25.6   36.2    44.9   54.9    65.6    68.9    71.0
Actual as % of        17.6   30.5    61.9    83.7   76.9    75.5   80.1    92.4    97.0   100.0
estimate
Date of final disbursement:  November 26, 1996
(a) Credit was extended beyond the original closing date of June 30, 1995 by one ycar.



16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Key Implementation
Indicators in SAR                    Estimated                          Actual
1. Afforestation Program
(a) Nursery development    Rehabilitate or establish 46 project  125 nurseries were established in nine
nurseries in six states.        states, three more states being created
out of the earlier six.
(b) Seedling production    Project nurseries to produce 49.2  Project nurseries produced 1 18.1
million seedlings for farm forestry  million seedlings. Private nurseries
and shelterbelt establishment.  produced an additional 12.8 million
seedlings with project assistance.
(c) Extension coverage     Extension staff to advise 197,000  Extension staff advised 330,000 farm
farm families on tree planting,  families on tree planting, protection
protection and maintenance.     and maintenance.
(d) Shelterbelt establishment  Project to establish 1,700 krm of  Project established 2,083 km of
shelterbelts to protect 34,000 ha of  shelterbelt to protect 41,660 ha of
agricultural land.              agricultural land.
2. Forest Management
Program
(a) Management of existing  Project to undertake improved  Project undertook inventory of 10,942
plantations             management of 37,600 ha of pre-  ha and thinned 10,167 ha. About
project plantations.            3,226 km of roads/rides were also
maintained to protect plantations
against fire.
(b) Establishment of new   Project to establish 3,150 ha of  Project established 5,073 ha of
plantations             plantations with teak, pine and  plantations with the selected species.
eucalyptus species.
3. Program Management
(a) Management             Project to use 72 man-years of  Project used 192.2 man-years for
expert assistance on long term  management, but 79 percent of this
contracts to help manage the    was provded by national staff. All
project. All expatriate positions to  expert positions were filled by
be phased out by the end of the  Nigerians by the end of the project.
project.
(b) Consultancy services   Project to use 22.5 man-years for  Project used about 9.4 man-years for
consultancies for various studies  consultancies. Some of the studies
and research.                   were done inhouse by staff.



17
Table 5: Continued
I. Modiried Indicators               Estimated                        Actual
1. Afforestation Program
(a) Community mobilization  Project to assist about 6,400  About 6,055 nurseries established, and
communities and institutions to  12.8 million seedlings produced.
produce tree seedlings, and 9,500  Project also mobilized 3,964 school
local groups and schools to plant  clubs and 2,667 self help groups to
and maintain trees.           plant 4,882 ha of woodlot, 1,050 ha
of orchard, and 1,194 km of roadside
planting.
(b) Women participation   Project to mobilize about 250  Project mobilized 204 women groups
women groups for tree planting  to establish 1,742 gardens/woodlots
and fuelwood conservation.    and use 3,513 improved fuelwood
stoves.
(c) Media support to     ADP to assist in the preparation  AP units produced 2,647 programs for
afforestation activities  and distribution of media messages  radio and television and distributed
on importance of trees.        32,000 posters and stickers with the
assistance of the ADP.
(d) Shelterbelt establishment  Project to establish 1,718 km of  Project established 2,083 km of
shelterbelts, 18 km of this to be in  shelterbelts, 25 km of this being in
Katsina State.                Katsina State.
2. Forest Management
Program
(a) Establishment of new  Project to establish 4,650 ha of  Project established 5,073 ha of
plantations            plantation, 1,500 ha of this to be in  plantation, 1,376 ha of this being in
Ogun and Ondo states.         Ogun and Ondo states.
(b) Private plantations  Project to encourage establishment  Total of 80 ha of private plantation
of private forest estates.    establshed in Kaduna and Kogi states.
3. Program Management
(a) Project monitoring   FORMECU to appoint consultant  New monitoring system designed for
after MTR to design effective  the project.
monitoring system for the project.



18
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(no indicators were specified in the SAR)
Modified Indicators for
Future Operation                                   Estimated
1. Afforestation Programn
(a) Seedling production         Only 10.0 million seedlings to be produced in project
nurseries in the 14 states during 1996-98. Private sector to be
encouraged to meet remaining seedling requirements.
(b) Shelterbelts                About 10,850 km of existing shelterbelts to be maintained,
and only 135 km of new shelterbelts to be established with
community participation.
(c) Woodlots                    About 3,650 ha of woodlot to be maintained and 5,230 ha to
be established (including Gum Arabic species) with
community participation.
(d) Roadside planting           Communities to establish 270 km of roadside planting with
assistance from project units.
2. Forest Management Progm
(a) Plantation management       Project units to manage 174,295 ha of plantations.
(b) Plantation establishment    Project units to establish 2,150 ha of new plantation, mainly
with Teak species, and encourage private sector to establish
210 ha.
3. FORMECU/APCU
(a) Studies                     Conduct II studies, including impact assessment, ICRs,
identification of new project, and review of forest legislation.
(b) Forest data bank            Establish center for a forest data bank.
(c) Funding                     Follow up with federal, state and local governments, and
communities, the provision of N 709.3 million for the
operational phase of the project, divided into N 217.4 million
for AP, N 401.6 million for the FMP and N 90.3 million for
FORMECU/APCU.



19
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at
Study          AppraisalRedefined                Status       Impact of Study
1. Review of draft    To produce a national forest  Initial review   Provided framework for
national forest policy  policy which would be     completed in 1992   sectoral policy reforns.
reviewed annually taking into  after release of the
consideration implementation  National Agricul-
experience.                 tural Policy
(including forestry).
Reviews still going
on at federal and
state level.
2. Review of forest   To determine the type and   Completed in 1993.  Increased revenue from
revenue systems       level of charges on forest                      forest resources which
resources, and whether the                      has informed
system is effective in meeting                  establishment of
conservation, utilization,                      Forestry Trust Fund in
revenue and cost recovery                       all states, to provide
objectives.                                     funds for development.
3. Preparation of     To provide information on   Not done.          Not applicable.
national afforestation  problem of deforestation and  Overtaken by
plan                  soil erosion in northern Nigeria  preparation of
and recommend long term     Nigerian Forestry
program of investment to arrest Action Program in
and reverse the process.     1995 which
addressed the issues.
4. Northern Nigeria   To assist the formulation of  Completed in 1992.  Introduction of energy
household energy      policies to help meet                           conservation measures
supply and demand     household energy needs in                      (especially improved
northern Nigeria.                               stoves) by AP states.
5. Follow up project to  To prepare an investment  Forestry IlI prepared  Not applicable.
Forestry 11           program that meets national  1993, pre-appraised
and conservation objectives for  by Bank in 1994 but
forestry development.       put on hold.
6. Environmental      To examine alternatives, assess  Done in 1993.  Report was considered
Impact Assessment for  impacts and possible                          in the pre-appraisal of
Forestry III          mitigation measures for the                    Forestry 111.
project activities.
7. Forest plantation  To provide status report of  Completed in 1991.  Provided information
development in Nigeria  extent of plantation                         for sectoral planning
by 1990               development.                                   and policy.



20
Table 7: Continued
8. Wood waste        To identify and quantify wood  Completed in 1992.  Used by FORMECU to
identification at    waste from different                          recommend appropriate
originating point in  technology approaches to                    technologies for
Nigeria              wood extraction.                              extraction of small
diameter logs.
9. Forest products   To provide information on the  Completed in 1990.  Information used by
demand and supply    long term supply and demand                   government for
characteristics of the sector.                planning plantation
development and
sustainable resource
exploitation.
10. Institutional    To review the institutional  Completed 1991.  Provided input to
strengthening in     relationships in the sector                   federal guidelines on
Nigerian forestry    between federal, state and local             roles in forestry
council levels.                               development and to the
transfer of the
cartographic unit of
FDF to FORMECU.
11. Forest management  To review forest management  Completed in 1991.  Used by FORMECU to
system for teak,     at state level and provide                    design sustainable
gmelina, pine and    guidelines for improved                      forest management
eucalyptus           management.                                  system for FMP states.
12. Review of the    To provide information to  Completed in 1994.  Contributed to
wood- based sector   assist the government to                     formulation of
rationalize the structure of the              government policy on
wood-based industry.                          wood exploitation.
13. Problems in      To identify the marketing  Completed in 1995.  Raised appreciation in
marketing Nigerian   problems for gmelina and                      government for
gmelina              make suggestions for                          aggressive marketing
promoting its use.                            and alternative uses of
gmelina wood.
14. Rural sociology  To review information on rural  Completed in 1992.  Contributed to design
study                populations especially attitude               of social forestry
to resource conservation, and                 program which
role of local leaders.                        encouraged private
participation in AP.
15. Monitoring and   To strengthen monitoring   Completed in 1993.  New monitoring system
evaluation           system for improved                           now used in all project
methodology          accountability.                               units has improved
quality of reports.
16. Training program  To provide standard training  Completed in 1994.  None yet. Equipment
for Wood Utilization  program for utilization of small             for the center not yet
Center, Benin        diameter logs.                  .flly installed.



21
Table 7: Continued
17. Relationship      To provide information on   Completed in 1994.  Contributed to design
between shelterbelts  tree-arable crop yield                         of crop systems for
and crop yield        relationships to guide farmers                 shelterbelt protected
living around shelterbelts.                    areas.
18. Cost-benefit      To provide economic data to  On going.         Not applicable.
analysis of shelterbelts  support interventions in
and woodlots          afforestation.
19. Appraisal of      To assess the status of research  Completed in 1993.  Led to signing of
research in the AP    in the AP states and                           agreement with FRIN
component             recommend improvements.                        for support to research.
20. Assessment of     To provide information on   Completed in 1994.  Information used for
survival rates of     survival and yields and draw                   management plans and
shelterbelts and      up improved management                         various reports.
woodlots.             plans.
21. Integration of fruit  To review status of     Completed in 1991.  Information used in
trees into farming    incorporation of fruit trees and               promoting increased
systems               propose strategies for                         fruit tree planting in the
diversification of production.                 semi-arid zone.



22
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraiisal EstimAte             Actualllatest Estimate
(USSM)                          (USSM)(a)
Local     Foreign                Local     Foreign
Item                 Costs      C05ot     Total      Costs       Costs      Totbl
1. Afforestation Program
Farm Forestry                 22.9       12.2      35.1        16.1       8.8        24.9
Shelterbelts                  14.6       5.3       19.9        10.4       3.8        14.2
2. Forest Management Program
Existing Plantations          13.7       6.1       19.8        11.4       5.0         16.4
New Plantations                9.3       9.2        18.5       7.6        7.6         15.2
3. Program Management              8.8       8.6        17.4       12.4       12.3        24.7
Total                           69.3      41.4       110.7      57.9       37.5        95.4
Note:   (a) Actual as at November 26, 1996.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate        Actuat/Latest Estimate (USSM)(a)
(USSM)
Local     Foreign                Local     Foreign
Source                Costs      Costs      Total     Costs      Costs       Total
IBRD                              29.6       41.4       71.0       33.5       37.5      71.0
Federal Government                27.7        0.0       27.7       4.3        0.0        4.3
State Government                  12.0        0.0       12.0       14.2       0.0       14.2
Community Contribution and
Intemally Generated Revenue        0.0        0.0        0.0       5.9        0.0        5.9
Total                             69.3       41.4       110.7      57.9       37.5      95.4
Note:   (a) Actual as at November 26, 1996.



23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits*
(N'OOO)
AlTorestation Program                  Forest Management Program
Year   Project Costs  Total Benefit  Net Benerit  Project Costs  Total Benefit  Net Benefit
1988      5,239            0          -5,239        9,852          809         -9,043
1989      16,022           0         -16,022       12,373          942         -11,431
1990      37,886           0         -37,886       61,780         1,724       -60,056
1991      45,487           0         -45,487       46,589         2,053       -44,536
1992     108,235         2,048       -106,187      34,625         1,368       -33,257
1993      117,290        9,111       -108,179      91,369         5,132       -86,237.
1994     151,703         17,059      -134,644      95,039        11,080        -83,959
1995     120,710        95,647       -25,063       116,447       45,053        -71,394
1996      39,909        122,233       82,324       29,112        84,665        55,553
1997      34,539        150,813      116,274       30,124        92,922        62,798
1998      34,182        171,981      137,800       30,124        120,916       90,792
1999      33,631        194,264      160,633       30,124        135,833       105,709
2000      33,631        203,336       169,705      30,124        145,857       115,733
2001      33,631        223,160       189,529      30,124        144,03'       113,911
2002      33,631        225,108       191,477      30,124        149,706       119,582
2003      33,631        237,487      203,856       30,124        230,090       199,966
2004      33,631        237,032      203,401       30,124        246,997       216,873
2005      33,631        241,985      208,354       30,124        404,349       374,225
2006      33,631        249,127      215,496       30,124        353,288       323,164
2007      33,631        254,644      221,013       30,124        156,383       126,259
2008      33,631        247,642      214,011       30,124        157,113       126,989
2009      33,631        244,870      211,239       30,124        142,895       112,771



24
Table 9: Continued
Afforestation Program                   Forest Management Program
Year   Project Costs.  Total Benefit  Net Benefit  Project Costs  Total Benefit  Net Benefit
2010      33,631         231,728       198,097      30,124         161,583       131,459
2011      33,631         236,210      202,579       30,124         153,291       123,167
2012      33,631         223,243       189,612       30,124        151,990       121,866
2013      33,631         227,745       194,114      30,124         159,342       129,218
2014      33,631         220,916       187,285      30,124         146,660       116,536
2015      33,631         216,227       182,596       30,124        163,481       133,357
2016      33,631         219,234       185,603      30,124         153,489       123,365
2017      33,631         222,702       189,071      30,124         149,672       119,548
2018      33,631         223,052       189,421         0             0              0
2019      33,631         230,409       196,778         0             0              0
2020      33,631         221,146       187,515         0             0             0
2021      33,631         221,201       187,570         0             0              0
2022      33,631         218,132       184,501         0             0              0
Note:  Costs and benefits are for the state project units only and the discount rate is 0.12. Details of costs and
benefits are available from the ICR mission notes in the Project Files.
F:or AP:                                    For FMP:
NPV (N'000)           275,180               NPV (N'000)   -       140,550
ERR (percent)         19.8                  ERR (percent)  =      16.7



25
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Original     Revised
Agree-              Covenant    Present   Fulfilment   Fulfilment
ment      Section   Type        Status    Date         Date        Description of Covenant                           Comments
Loan      2.02 (b)  I           C                      06/87       FGN to open and maintain two Special Accounts, one  Accounts opened in 1987.
2760                                                               each for FORMECU and APCU.
3.01 (a)  5           C         Continuous   Continuous   FGN to implement Part C of the project through   FORMECU remained the coordinating agency
FORMECU with due diligence and efficiency.       for the project.
3.01 (c)   3          C          -           09/87        FGN to on lend on specified terms to FMP states  Done after Loan effeetiveness.
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Category (2) of
Schedule I to the Agreement.
3.01 (e)   4          CP         06187       06187        FGN to open two local currency accounts in specified  Accounts were opened and initial deposits made.
amounts, one each for FORMECU and APCU and       Quarterly contributions were, however, not paid
maintain them with quarterly contributions to meet  promptly and very inadequate.
local expenses.
3.02 (a)   5          C          .           02/87        FGN to establish and maintain FORMECU and APCU   FORMECU was established by Official Gazette
in a form and with functions, staffing and facilities  notice of February 5, 1987.
satisfactory to the Bank.
Covenanttypes:                                                                                                                 Present Status:
I. -    Accounts/audits,                                   8  -    Indigenous people                                          C   =    covenant complied with
2. -     Financial perfornance/revenue generation from beneficiaries  9.  Monitoring, review, and reporting                    CP -    complied with partially
3. =    Flow and utilization of project funds               0.-    Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9        CD =    complied with after delay
4. =    Counterpart fimding                                11. -   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other rcsource allocation  NC =  not complied with
5. =    Management aspects of the project or executing agency  12. =  Sectoal or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6: -    Environmental covenats                             13. =   Other
7.      Involuntary resettlement



26
Table 10: Continued
Originail    Revised
Agree-             Covenant   Present   Pulfilment  Fulfilment
ment     Section   Type       Status    Date        Date        Description of Covenant                       Comments
Loan      3.03 (a)  12        CD        06/88       06/88        FGN to ensure that APCU conducts the household  APCU completed the study in 1991.
2760     (i) &                                                   energy study and submits the fina report to the
(ii)                                                   FGN, the Bank and the concerned States after
comments on the draft
3.03 (a)  12        NC         06/90       06/90       FGN to ensure that APCU prepares a long term  Action was suspended because the major elements of
(iii) &                                                Afforestation Plan and submits the finli report to  the study were covered by the preparation of the
(iv)                                                   the Bank, FGN and the concerned states after  UNDP assisted Nigerian Forestuy Action Program in
comments on the draft.                       1995.
3.03 (b)  5         CP         .                       FGN, following consultations with the Bank, to  The recommendations of the energy study were
implement the recommendations of the energy  applied in the implementation of the AP, especially
study and the afforestation plan.            through the promotion of improved wood stoves.
3.04 (a)  12        CD         06/88       06/88       FGN to ensure that FORMECU prepares a revised  Review was completed in 1992 after publication of
(i) &                                                  National Forest Policy and submits it to the Bank  the Nigerian Agricultural Policy which also included
(ii)                                                   for comments.                                forestry.
3.04 (a)  2         CD         06187       061/7       FGN to ensure that FORMECU employs           Review was concluded in 1993.
(iii) &                                                consultants to complete jointly with the states a
(iv)                                                   review of forest revenue systems and after
comments on the review by FGN, the Bank and the
states, make recommendations on an appropriate
system of tarrifs for each state.
3.04 (b)  12         CD        12/88       12/88       FGN to publish after consultation with the Bank,  Review was completed in 1992. Informal reviews of
the revised National Forest Policy, review it again  policy have been going on. Another review of forest
by June 30, 1990 and in each year thereafter.  legislation is planned for 1997.
3.05     2          CD         06/88       06/88       FGN to facilitate and ensure the adoption by each  Many states have been regularly revising their tarrif
state of an appropriate system of tarrifs for the  systems since 1994, with assistance from
forestry sector.                             FORMECU.
3.06     3           C         Continuous  Continuous  Procurement of goods, works and services to be  Procurements were made after receiving Bank no-
fmnanced under the Loan to be in accordance with  objection.
provisions of Schedule S of Loan Agreement.



27
Table 10: Continued
Original     Revised
Agree-            Covenant    Present   Fulfilment  Fulfilment
ment    Section    Type       Status      Date        Date                Description of Covenant                             Comments
Loan     4.01 (a)  I          C         Continuous  Continuous  FGN to cause to be maintainied separate records and  Adequate records and accounts were kept by the
2760                                                             accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with  respective project units.
sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures of the project
4.01 (b)  I         C          Continuous  Continuous  FGN to have all project accounts audited annually  Project units employed auditors annually to audit
(i)                                                    by independent auditors approved by the Bank.  their accounts.
4.01 (b)  I         CP         Continuous  Continuous  FGN to fumish to the Bank within six months after  Some project units submitted their reports latce
(ii)                                                   the end of each year, certified copies of auditor's  Ogun project for exanple submitted its 1994 report
report.                                      late in 1996.
4.01 (b)  I         C          Continuous  Continuous  FGN to fumish to the Bank any other infornation  Such information was usually obtained during
(iii)                                                  on accounts and audits as may be requested from  supervision missions.
time to time.
4.01 (c)  I                                            For all expcnditures under the Loan to be claimed
under SOEs, FGN to:
C         Continuous  Continuous  (i) cause to be maintained separate supporting  Separate records and accounts were maintaineed for
records and accounts;                         SOEs.
NC           12197       12/97     (ii) retain all such records until one year after Loan  Not yet due. Loan was closed in December 1996.
closing;
C         Continuous  Continuous  (iii) enable Bank's representatives to examine such  Records wcre examined by supervision missions.
records; and
C         Continuous  Continuous  (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included  Separate audit opinions were usually prepared on
in the annual audit reports, which should have a  SOEs and included in the annual audit report.
separate audit opinion as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan claimed under the SOEs have been used
for the intended purpose.



28
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff I uts
Stage of                                        Actual
Project Cycle                        Staffweeks        USS(OOO)
Preparation to appraisal                145.7            103.1
Appraisal                               100.4            208.5
Negotiations through Board approval      14.9             35.5
Supervision                            345.6            664.1
Completion                               11.9             20.2
ITTotal                  1             618nk            1031t
Total   ______________                  618.5           1031.5I



29
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Number   Days    Specialized  Performance Rating
Stage of            Month/        of      in   Staff Skills  Implem.  Devclop-
Project Cycle         Year     Persons  Field  Represented  entation  ment       Type of
_   ____ _                   Status    Objectives  Problems
1'hrough appraisal  2/82 - 6/85   19     449      b,d,e,h
Appraisal through  7/85 - 10/86   -       -
Board approval
Board approval    11/86 - 9/87    2      23        c,e         I          I      Borrower meeting conditions
through                                                                         for effectiveness.
effectiveness
Supervision 1     2/88            2       10        f                     -      Take off of Sokoto component.
Supervision 2     6188 - 7/88     1      18         d          2          2      Inadequate counterpart
funding.
Supervision 3     11/88           2      24        d,e         2          2      Revision of project to
accommodate devaluation.
Supervision 4     6/89 - 7/89     2      25        e,g         2          2      Implementation of AP
component and shelterbelts.
Supervision 5     6/90            3      42       b,e,g        2          2      Poor counterpart funding and
weak project management.
Supervision 6     4/91            2       14       b,g         2          2      Weak project monitoring.
Supervision 7     6/91            2      28        b,g         -          -      Mid-term review of project.
Supervision 8     7/91 - 8/91     3      62         b                            Formulation of monitoring
system.
Supervision 9     3/92 - 4/92     4      60      ad,gh         2          2      Poor FGN counterpart funding
and need for project revision.
Supervision 10    4/92 - 7/92     4      15       a,d,f        -                 Product utilization in Kaduna
and Kogi components.
Supervision II    5/92 - 6/92     2      22        a,g         2          2      Loan re-allocation for civil
works for new states.
Supervision 12    8/92 - 12/92    7      44      a,d,f,g,h     2          2      Slow disbursernent and
counterpart funding.
Supervision 13    2/93 - 11/93    4      10       b,d,f        -          .      Counterpart funding of Ogun
and Kaduna components.
Management instability in
Supervision 14    4/94 - 6/94     10     34     a,b.c,d,e,f    -          .      Ogun and poor funding.
Supervision 15    7/94 - 10/94    5      52       a,d,f        2          2      Funding of FORMECU and
AP states.
Supervision 16    11/94           2      46        a,g         2          2      Revision of work program for
-       . ___________        ............ . loan re-allocation.
Cont'd



30
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions (Cont'd)
Number   Days    Specialized  Perfom     Rating
Stage of             Month/       of     in     Staff Skills  Imnplem-  Develop-
Project Cycle         Year     Persons   Field  Represented  entation  ment      Type of
S:atus    Objectives  Problems
Supervision 17    8/95 - 12/95    4       19       a,d,f       -                 Poor FGN funding.
Supervision 18     1/96 - 4/96    3       24       b,d,f       2          2      Poor counterp-rt funding.
Completion        9/96 - 11196    5      139      a,b,d,f      2          2      Preparation of ICR.
Key to Staff Skills
a    Agriculturist              d = Finencial Analyst           g =  Rural Engineer
b - Economist                   e = Forester                    h =  Institutions Specialist
c =  Extension Specialist       f = Operations Officer
Performance Rating:             I = Highly satisfactory         2 - Satisfactory
Noit: The project involved 13 states and two federal units which were often supervised separately. Since
some of the supervision missions only submitted aide-menwires . hadk-to office reports rather than Forms
590, performnance ratings were not available for such missions. kurm 590 updates were, however, prepared
for the ARPP and mid-year reviews.



Appendix A
NIGERIA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
[Loan 2760-UNIl
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I.    A World Bank mission assisted by staff of the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF), the
Federal Department of Forestry (FDF), the Forestry Management Evaluation and
Coordinating Unit (FORMECU), and the Afforestation Program Coordinating Unit (APCU)2
undertook a final supervision of the Second Forestry Project (Forestry II) during September
23 to November 19, 1996, in preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
2.    The mission visited the fifteen project units, viz, the Forest Management Program
(FMP) in Kaduna, Kogi, Ogun and Ondo states, the Afforestation Program (AP) in Bauchi,
Bomo, Jigawa, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Plateau, Sokoto and Yobe states, FORMECU in Abuja
and APCU in Kano. In addition to visits to some of the project sites and discussions with the
staff, clients and beneficiaries, the mission discussed with some of the state administrators
and senior officials of the supervising ministries to elicit their views about the
implementation of the project and plans for the future. A wrap-up meeting held in Abuja on
November 19, 1996, and attended by the heads of the implementing units as well as staff of
the FMF and FDF, discussed the observations of the mission as reflected in the draft aide-
memoire. Their comments have been utilized, as appropriate, in this aide-memoire. The
mission is grateful for all the courtesies extended to it by the management and staff of the
federal and state ministries, the project units and the state administrators.
3.    This aide-memoire, which is subject to review by Bank management, summarizes the
mission's findings and conclusions, the agreements reached with the Borrower and the
implementing units, the operational plan of the project and the follow-up actions required
under the ICR process. It assesses the objectives of the project and their achievement, the
major factors that affected project implementation, the performance of the Bank and the
Borrower, the sustainability of the benefits of the project and the key lessons learned from
implementation.
Project Background and Objectives
4.    Bgck.gound. Forestry II, designed to be implemented over an eight year period at a
cost of USI 10.7 million, was a follow on project to Forestry I which had assisted in the
development of about 16,000 ha of industrial tree plantations for the proposed pulp and paper
industry. The project was aimed at addressing the concems of the Federal Government of
2 The mission comprised Messrs: Samuel Eremie (Mission Leader), Samuel Onwona, Dele Ilebani (World
Bank), Chiji Ojukwu, Bioye Akinfolarin (Consultants, World Bank), Musa Shaba, Dominic Ogamanya,
(FMF), Rex Aruofor (FDF), Olufemi Omiyale, Femi Ogundare, nkwuo Nnachi, Stephen Birdling, Ayo
Bamidele, Chudi Onuoha, Bello Tambawal (FORMECU), William Modugu and iazuli Musa (APCU).



32
Nigeria (FGN) for the forestry sector at the time, viz, the weak policy framework,
inefficiency in the supply of industrial timber, and rapid deforestation with its consequences
for soil erosion. The US$71.0 million loan for the project was approved by the Bank on
October 21, 1986 but it became effective on September 25, 1987. The estimated total cost of
the project was reduced to US$95.0 million in 1991, following the mid-term review (MTR).
5.    Objectives and Components. The objectives of the project as stated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were:
(i) on a national level, to strengthen the structural base of the sector through
improved policies, training, studies and research;
(ii) in the northem and central regions of the country, to stabilize soil conditions in
threatened areas and to increase the supply of fuelwood, poles and fodder through
farm forestry and shelterbelt activities; and
(iii) in the southern and central region, to increase the supply of industrial wood by
improving the management of existing forest reserves and plantations and
establishing new plantations.
6.    The three components of the project were as follows:
(i) Afforestaon Prgmz to support a farm forestry program that would involve
about 197,000 farm families in tree planting and maintenance on farm land, and a
shelterbelt program to establish 1,700 km of shelterbelts to protect about 34,000 ha of
farn land;
(ii) Forest Mana:eMent Program, to assist in the improved management of about
37,600 ha of existing industrial plantations and the establishment of 3,150 ha of new
plantations; and
(iii) MaaeMent. Training. Policy Analysis Resch and Studies, to provide
technical assistance (about 94.5 staff years), vehicles, equipment and materials for the
management, training, policy analysis, research and studies activities of the project.
7.    Among the covenants to facilitate project implementation were, the provision of
adequate counterpart funds, the conduct of various studies to outline long term forestry
development plans, and the establishment and maintenance of structures for coordination,
monitoring and evaluation at the state and federal levels. The implementation strategies and
physical targets were slightly modified during the MTR taking into consideration the lessons
of the first half of the project. The objectives of the project were relevant for Nigeria and in
line with the country's forestry policy as well as the Bank's sector strategies of the mid
eighties.
Achievement of Objectives in Afforestation
8.    Table 1 summarizes the achievements of the AP. The targets for seedling production
and extension coverage were exceeded. About 130.9 million seedlings were produced by the
project against a target of 49.2 million. The number of contactfarmers reached (330,000) is
about 168 percent of the target. Public enlightenment campaigns, annual tree planting



33
campaigns, direct extension in collaboration with the Agricultural Development Projects
(ADPs) under the Unified Agriculturai Extension Services (UAES), and farmer training
(about 31.500 farmers) by the project have created awareness among about 70 percent of the
rural population on the importance of tree planting as well as its maintenance. The
involvement of the private sector (communities, individuals, self help groups and institutions)
in seedling production and tree planting increased after the MTR. Plateau was outstanding in
mobilizing communities for the establishment of woodlots. Women were also brought into
the program in seedling production, planting of orchards and woodlots and the use of
improved stoves. Over 3,500 stoves were distributed and women potters have been trained to
produce the stoves locally.
Table 1:       Achievements of the Afforestation Program
Achievement
Item                Target*      Quantity       %             Remark"*
Seedling Production
Nurseries (No.) - Project         46           125       272
- Private             -          6055         -      Kano had 28% of total.
Seedling production (million)
- Project          49.2          118.1       240
- Private                         12.8        -      Jigawa had 27% of total.
Farm Foresry
Contact farmn families ('000)    197           330       168     Jigawa had 23% of total.
Foresters clublinstitutions (No.)  -         3964         .      Kano had 34% of total.
Self help groups (No.)                       2667         -      Kano had 50% of total.
Woodlot established (ha.)
- Project            .            684        -      Kano had 31% of total.
- Private                       4882                Jigawa had 32% of total.
Orchard established (ha.)                     1569               Sokoto had 29*/ of total.
Roadside planting (km.)                       1194               Kano had 56% of total.
Women in forestry
- groups fomed (No.)                       204                Plateau had 39%/e of total.
- gardens/woodlot (No.)                    1742               Yobe had 66% of total.
- improved stoves (No.)                   3513                Bomo had 36% of total.
Media support
- radiolTV programs (No.)                 2647         *      Kano had 26% of total.
- posters/stickers ('000)      .            113               Kano had 34% of total.
Farmers trained ('000)                          32               Jigawa had 79% of total.
Shelterbelis established (km.)  1718          2083       121     Sokoto had 27/o of total.
Funding (USSm.)
State Government                 5.7           7A        130     Kano had 23% of total.
Federal Govemment                2.8           0.9        32      Xano got 33% of total.
Internally generated revenue      -            0.1
Communities                      4.1           3.8       93       About N 94.5 million.
World Bank                      32.7          26.1       80
Total                           45.3          38.3       85
As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review.
* *     Indicates state with highest physical achievement. Details are in annexure to the ICR.



34
9.    A total of 2,083km of shelterbells was established, 121 percent of the target of
1,718km. The survival rate in the belts is between 60 and 80 percent. The shelterbelts are
expected to protect about 41,660 ha of agricultural land as against the target of 34,560 ha.
The shelterbelts have led to the remarkable recovery of sand dune devastated settlements and
agricultural land in parts. of Sokoto and Yobe states, improved crop yields (up to 50 percent
for millet), and created opportunities for the incorporation of soil fertility enhancing crops,
such as groundnut and cowpea, into the cropping system. Jigawa was particularly successful
in mobilizing the communities, through their traditional rulers, to establish shelterbelts.
10.    The finding of the AP by the state governments was generous, the total contribution
of US$7.4 million being 130 percent of the target of US$5.7 million. The FGN contribution
of US$0.9 million was only 32 percent of the target. Dwindling public budgetary allocations
and the deteriorating exchange rate of the naira to the dollar are partly responsible for this
performance. Community contribution to project cost increased substantially after the MTR
and amounted to about US$3.8 million (93 percent of the target) for the raising of seedlings
and the planting of woodlots and orchards alone. Communities and individuals also provided
land for shelterbelts and woodlots.
11.   The relative stability in the management of the state AP units, most of them
experiencing only one change in the leadership with the exit of the expatriate coordinator,
contributed to their achievements. There was little inteference in the management of most of
the units. However, the Afforestation Committee that was to provide policy guidance to the
management either never met, as in Jigawa, or had very infrequent meetings. This denied the
project units the much needed executive support and in some cases, like Plateau and Bauchi,
the required extra financial support.
Achievement of Objectives in Forest Management
12.   Table 2 summarizes the achievements of the FMP. The four states recorded modest
success in the improved management of the existing plantations. Only 66 percent of the
inventory target of 10,942 ha set by the project units was achieved, with Kogi exceeding its
target. Achievement in the maintenance of roads and rides for fire protection was 83 percent
(target of 3,226 Iam) while 74 percent of the 10,167 ha target for thinning was achieved. The
thinning program was adversely affected in Ondo and Ogun states by the non-completion of
the Twopin Pulp and Paper Mill which was to have consumed most of the thinned products
from the gmelina plantations. Almost N 60 rnillion was realised by the four states from the
sale of poles, posts and fuelwood.
13.   The achievement in the establishment of new plantations was impressive. About
5,073 ha of teak, pine and eucalyptus species were planted, in excess of the revised target of
4,650 ha. Weeding and other cultural operations were done in most of the plantations.
Relations between the projects and the neighbouring communities were generally
satisfactory; the projects providing infrastructure and social services as well as employment
for casual labor while the communities helped to reduce plantation establishment costs
through the taungya system (where farmers are allowed to plant arable crops along with
forest tree species on cleared forest land) and protected the forest estates from fire. The



35
management of Kaduna and Kogi projects encouraged the establishment of about 70 ha and
10 ha, respectively, of private plantations.
Table 2:Achievements of the Forest Management Program
Achievement
Item               Target*      Quantity     %            Remark"
Plantation Management
lnventozy (ha)                 10942        7246       66     Kogi had 41 % of total.
Road/ride maintenance (kim)    3226         2675       83     Ogun had 35% of total.
Thinning (ha)                  10167        7535       74     Kogi had 37% of total.
Revenue from thinning (N m)      -          59.6       -      Ondo had 600% of total.
Plantation E;stablishment
Seedling production (million)    8.9        10.6      119     Kaduna had 58% of total.
Planting (ha)                  4650         5073      109     Kaduna had 58% of total.
Weeding (ha)                   10430        9628       92     Kogi had 51 % of total.
Other cultural operations (ha)  21480      17161       80     Kaduna had 50%/o of total.
Road/ride construction (kIn)    551          319       58     Kaduna had 52% of total.
Funding (USSm)
State Govermunent                5.0         6.8      136     Kaduna had 57% of total.
Federal Govemnment               2.5         0.8       32     38%A went to Kaduna.
Intemally generated revenue       -          2.0       -      Ondo had 40%/c of total.
World Bank                      23.2        21.3       92     52% went to Kaduna.
Total                           30.7        30.9      101
As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-term review.
Indicates state with highest physical achievement. Details are in annexure to ICR.
14.    There was high instability of management in Ogun and Kaduna states each of which
had six managers during the life of the project. In Ogun, there was very poor relationship
between the management and the State Govermnent until recently. Political interference in
the procurement process in Kaduna resulted in unpaid local contractual debts of about N 27
million at the end of the loan. The counterpart fund contribution by the states totalling
US$6.8 million, was 136 percent of the target of US$5.0 million. Ogun State, however, only
met 67 percent of the expected contribution. The FGN contribution of US$0.8 million was
only 32 percent of the target.
Achievements in Program Management
15.     Table 3 shows the achievements of the management component of the project.
FORMECU and its regional office, APCU, coordinated and supervised the Forestry 1I Project
as well as other donor-assisted projects and undertook a number of studies to generate
information for improved project implementation as well as the long term development of the
forestry sector.  About 744 technical support and monitoring visits were made by
FORMECU/APCU to the states, facilitated by about. 81 vehicles provided by the project.
Monitoring reports from FORMECU/APCU often came in late because of delays in the



36
submission of reports by the states and infrequent visits to the states by monitoring staff
because of financial constraints.   The new    monitoring system   led to a considerable
improvement in the quality of the reports.
Table 3:       Achievements in Program Management
Achievement
Item               Target*      Quantity    %              Remark
FORMECU/APCU
Vehicles (No.)  - APCU                         26               46% of these were cars.
- FORMECU                       40        -      73% of these were cars.
Computers (No.) - APCU                         17
- FORMECU                        24
Missions to states (No.)
-APCU              683          539       79
-FORMECU           214          205       96
FVTC Training (No.)               .          5864               3001 are taditional
leaders, farmers, students.
FMDC Training (No.)               .          1060        -
Funding (USSm)
- Federal Government    3.9          2.6       67
- World Bank           15.1         21.5      142
- Total                19.0         24.1      127
Technical Asslstance (man years)
- Management           72.0        192.2      267     79%K are national staff.
- Studies              22.5          9A        42     Some were done by staff.
- Total                94.5        201.6      213
S&udies (No.)                       S          21      420
Training (No. of staff)
- local  -AP                                1127
-FMP                    -           360
- FORMECU/APCU          -           165
- Total                 -          1652
- overseas - AP                  -           104
-FMP                    .            75
- FORMECU/APCU                      137
- Total                             316
a As specified at appraisal and revised at mid-terrn review
16.    A total of 21 studies were conducted compared with the five major studies stipulated
by the appraisal report. The National Afforestation Plan, one of the prescribed studies,was
not done but most of the required data was ultimately generated under the National Forestry
Action Plan prepared by FORMECU with support from the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP). Notable outputs of the concluded studies include: (i) the new monitoring



37
system that captures the economic and physical progress of project implementation; (ii) the
computerized forest management system which enables the scientific inventory and
management of the forest plantations; and (iii) the forest revenue system. The technical input
of FORMECU was also instrumental to Nigeria's entry into intemational conventions on
Biodiversity (1992) and Desertification (1995), and the International Neem Network (1994).
The research program, mainly for the AP, was not very effective. For most of the life of the
project, the modalities for implementation were misunderstood so that most of the research
done in the states was uncoordinated and of poor technical quality. One outcome of the
research done was the standardization of the polythene pots and potting mixture for raising
seedlings. A memorandum of understanding was signed recently with the Forestry Research
Institute of Nigeria (FRIN) for technical support and a diagnostic survey of afforestation has
now been done.
17.  About 192 man years of technical assistance was used for the management of Forestry
II, but only 40 man years went to expatriates. The rest was for internationally-recruited
Nigerians most of whom started as counterparts to the expatriates and smoothly took over.
The training provided under the project helped in the rapid build up of local managerial and
technical capacity for the forestry sector. A total of 1,968 staff benefitted from short training
courses, 84 percent of them locally. The training was particularly helpful in orienting the
staff towards social forestry and community participation. The training provided at the
Forest Manpower Development Center (FMDC) and the Forestry Vocational Training Center
(FVTC) imparted technical skills to a wide range of public and private actors in the sector
and for general enlightenment on forestry. Unfortunately, the two centers were unable to
attain a sufficient level of cost recovery because of the dwindling number of course
participants which is not unconnected with the downturn in the economy. Attempts to
upgrade the Forest Utilization Center in Benin for training on the utilization of snaUl
diameter logs did not fully materialize before the end of the loan.
18.   The management of FORMECU was successfully restructured along functional lines
to increase its capacity to respond to the technical support requirements of the states. The
movement of FORMECU headquarters to Abuja and the resulting need to clear most matters
with the FDF delayed some aspects of project implementation. The Governing Board for
FORMECU, which is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture, met infrequently mainly
because of frequent changes of ministers. During the early years of the project, there was a
strained relationship between FORMECU and APCU as a result of personality conflicts. For
over one year, APCU was also put under the supervision of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency (FEPA), thus weakening the linkage with FORMECU. The FGN funding
of the activities of FORMECU/APCU was poor and releases were often late. Only 67 percent
of the US$3.9 million for the units was released. The poor funding of the FMP by FGN
eroded FORMECU's influence on some states who tried to resist what they perceived as
interference from an agency that did not have the fmancial carrot. Overall, FORMECU and
APCU used up more resources than estimated at appraisal largely because of the inclusion of
the headquarters civil works late in the life of the project. While APCU has completed its
structures, those of FORMECU are at an advanced stage of completion.
Factors Affecting Project Performance
19.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were: (i) inadequate and
untimely counterpart funding; (ii) outside interference in management; (iii) irregular



38
meetings of the afforestation committees; (iv) unsuccessful development of anticipated
produce market; (v) procurement delays; and (vi) inflation, political and fuel crises. While
the first four factors are subject to government control, the fifth involves the government, the
implementing agencies and the Bank. The last factor is beyond the control of the
government. The counterpart funding performance of the FGN was inadequate even with
the reduction of the FGN share of project cost from 25 percent to 10 percent during the MTR.
The total contribution of the FGN of US$4.3 million represented 47 percent of its expected
contribution. Although the states performed better, releases were often late.
20.   The interference in staffing and procurement decisions delayed implementation in
some of the project units. This situation was aggravated by the infrequent meeting of the
afforestation committees, giving room for individual senior government officials to dictate to
the management. Procurement delays were usually due to counterpart funding constraints,
tortuous governnent regulations on the clearing of goods and incompetence of some
consultants and contractors for the civil works. The non-completion of the Iwopin Pulp and
Paper Mill by the government during the project seriously affected the management of the
forest plantations in Ogun and Ondo states since most of the thinned gmelina product was
expected to be consumed by the mill. Finally, the political and fuel crises from 1992 and
high inflation affected local costs, staff movement and construction activities.
Project Outcome and Sustainability
21.   The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The objectives of improving the
supply of industrial wood, stabilizing soil conditions in parts of the country, and
strengthening policy and implementation capacity for the forestry sector have been largely
achieved. The re-estimated economic rate of return of 16.7 percent for the FMP compares
favorably with the appraisal estimate of 17 percent. The rate is even more favorable for the
AP, being 19.8 percent as against the appraisal estimate of 15 percent.
22.   Awareness has been created among policy makers and about 70 percent of the rural
population on the importance of tree planting, natural regeneration of trees, and community
participation. Under the AP, commnunities have taken increasing responsibility for seedling
production and the planting and protection of the trees while working relationships have been
established with the ADPs for the implementation of a cost-effective and unified extension
service. The project has developed skilled manpower for the management of the forestry
sector, generated data for better interventions in the sector, and catalyzed public and other
donor investment in the sector that would have been impossible otherwise. The chances are
high that the AP would be sustained considering the increasing involvement of the private
sector. The sustainability of the Ogun and Ondo FMP is questionable with the uncertainty
surrounding the completion of the Iwopin Mill. Kaduna and Kogi FMP are likely to be
sustainable if private sector participation in plantation management, product processing and
marketing are vigorously encouraged and if the state governments plough back more of the
revenue generated into the project. The coordinating units would need to rationalize their
operations and staff strength to be able to continue to give quality technical support to the
forestry sector even with lean public funding.



39
Bank and Borrower Performance
23.   Bank performance at appraisal and during implementation was rated satisfactory.
Supervision was fairly regular and the state governments saw supervision missions as useful
in informing them about the true position of project implementation. A few project units
complained that the services of the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO)
usually recommended by the Bank are often unsatisfactory and because of the advance
payment arrangements, could be more expensive.
24.   FGN support for the project was strong as evidenced by the direct involvement of the
Head of State in the Annual Tree Planting Campaign organized by the project in conjunction
with the FDF. Although the funding performance of the FGN was unsatisfactory, its
coordinating units, FORMECU and APCU, provided very valuable technical support to the
states. The states were more supportive of the project financially but many were weak in the
implementation of policies for the sustainable management of the forest resources. Most of
the loan covenants were complied with, except the timely release of adequate counterpart
funds and the regular meeting of the executive committees.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
25.   The operational plans for the period 1996 to 1998 are attached to the aide-memoire.
They reflect a commitrnent to prioritize activities, enhance internal revenue generation,
increase community contribution to operational costs, and to seek financial and other
assistance from non-traditional sources such as the local governments, the Petroleum Trust
Fund, the Forestry Trust Fund, non-governmental organizations and bi-lateral donors. There
are assurances from both the federal and state governments to continue supporting the project
activities.
26.   The key lessons learned include: (i) the need for the conscious identification and
involvement of all stakeholders of a project at the planning stage and through the
implementation and evaluation stages. From the MTR when private sector participation was
encouraged, there was accelerated implementation and at reduced public cost; (ii) a sense of
ownership among the stakeholders is vital for sustained support to project operations. The
state governments who owned the forest estates were more supportive of the project than the
FGN. The farmers who earlier uprooted seedlings planted in project shelterbelts faithfully
protected their fruit trees, compound trees, free standing farm trees and woodlots; and (iii)
future projects, even for long gestation activities such as forestry, should be designed as time
slices (three to four years) of a long term comnmitment. After eight years of implementation,
some state governments and project managers still felt that the loan ended abruptly. Future
projects could be implemented in phases, the next phase building on the experience of the
preceding one.



40
Next Actions
27.   The following are the proposals for the delivery of the ICR:
11/25/96          Send aide-memoire to Borrower
12/02/96          Receive Borrower's Final Evaluation Report
12/16/96          Send draft ICR for review at Headquarters
01/20 - 02/07/97  Mission Leader revises draft ICR at Headquarters
02/21/97           Send final draft ICR to Borrower
05/30/97          Submit final ICR to Board.
Samuel Eremie
Mission Leader
Abuja, November 19, 1996



41
NIGERIA; SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Operstional Plans (July 1996 - December 1998)
Physical Target                                    Financial Resources (NO000)
SINo.                  Item                      Unit            1996         l"7          99         Total        196          19"7         19         Total
01 Bnachi Afforestation Program
A. Appikatlon of Fund
I SeedlgPdtdon                             OOONo              150         200         300          650         500          0OO        1,100        2.400
2 Shelterbelts - Establishment                Km                10          10           10          30          400         500          400        1.300
Mainagement                      Km               149         154          159         462         SOO          500          500        1.500
3 Woodlout  - OumAabic                        Ha                 0           5           5           10            0         400          300          700
- WoodlotandOrchasd               Hs                0           Is          I5           30           0          300         300          600
4 Exteiion mdTralning                        LUMp                I           I            1           3          100         400         400          900
5 Administation - Saldies and Wages          Lau1p               I           I            1           3         400         1.000       1,000        2,400
- OperationsMaintniance       LUMp                I            I           1           3        1,300        1,500        1.600       4.400
Total                                                                                                       3,200        5,400        SAN        14,200
3.  Sowce of Fud
biteraly G    deneMd Revenue                                                                                   200         400          600        1.200
Fded  G  t                                                                                                  1,000        1,000       1,000       3.000
Stac Grant                                                                                                   2,000        4,000       4.000        S.000
Total                                                                                                        3.200        5.400       5,600       14.200
02 Borno Afforestation Program
A. Appleatldo of Fund
1 Scedling Preduction                      '000 No            400          400         400         1,200       1.000        1.000       1,000        3P0O0
2 Shelterbelt Management                      Km               550         655          655        1860         510         600          600        1.710
3 Woodlots - Gum Arabic                       Ha            S/LGA       5/LGA        5/LGA       15rLGA          200          200         300          700
- Woodlot/Orchad                    lb           IO/LGA      IO/LGA       I0/LGA      30/LGA          500          800         900         2.200
- Woodlot Management                Ha              124          144         164          432          120        1.000       1,000        2.120
4 Extension and Training                     Lump                I           I            I           3         1,200       1.000        1.500       3.700
5 Administration - Salies and Wages          Lump                I           I            I           3        5,000        5.000        5.000       15000
- Operations/Mainlenanle      Lump                I            I           1            3        2.000       2,000        2.000        61000
Total                                                                                                        16,530      31,600       12,300      34,430



42
Operational Plans (July 199 - December 199S). Continued
Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N'000)
S/No.                 Item                      alnit           1996        I997        199S       Totel        1996        1997         1993       Total
02 Borno AfTorestation Program (Coat.)
B. Sources of Fund
I Intcrnally Generated Revenue                                                                             2.000        2,000       2,000       6.000
2 Fedeta Grant                                                                                               530          600         600        1.730
3 State Grant                                                                                               8,000       9.000       9,700      26,700
Total                                                                                                    10,530       11,600      12300       34.430
03 Jipwa Afforestitton Program
A. Appikation of Fund
I Seedling Production                     '000 No             t0          t0          t0         240         500         500          500       1.500
2 Shelterbelts - Establishment               Km               10          10          10          30          500         500         500        1.500
- Management                     Km              44t         488         51t        1,454         300         300         400        1.000
3 Woodlots  - Gum Arabic                     Ha           S/LGA       5/LGA        5ALGA      I 5/LGA        200          200         200         600
- Woodlot/Orchard                Ha           IO/LGA      10/LGA      101LGA      30/LGA          400         406         400        1.200
- Woodlot Management             Ha              i00         200         300         600        1,000        1,000       1,000       3.000
- Roadside Planting              Km               20          20          20          60          800         800         800        2.400
4 Extension and Training                    Lump               I           I           I           3         600          800         t00        2.200
5 Administration - Salaries and Wages       Lump               I           I           1           3        1000         1,300       1,500       3.800
- Opertions/Maintenance      Lump                I           I           1           3        1,400       1,600       1.600       4,600
Total                                                                                                     6,700       7,400       7,700      21.800
B. Sources of Fund
Intemally Generated Rcvenue                                                                                 200         300         350         850
Federal Grant                                                                                             2,100        3,100       2,850       8.050
State Grant                                                                                               4,400        4.000       4,500      12,900
Total                                                                                                     6,700        7.400       7.700      21.800



43
Operational Plans (July 1996 - December 1998). Continued
Physical Target                                  Flnaxncial Rtsources (N'000)
SlNo.                 Ittm                     Unit            1996        I997        1991        Total       1996         1997        1998       Teal
04 Kano Afiorestation Program
A. Appkleatio of Fund
I Seedling Production                     '000 No           200         300         400         900          700         S00        1,150      2.650
2 Sheltabeht- Establishmenl                 Km                10          10         25          45          500         500         600        1.600
* Management                      Km              659         679         714        2.052       1.200        1,500       1.600       4.300
3 Woodlots - OuGnArabictGabaruwa            Ha               170         170         170         510         300         500         500        1.300
- Woodlot/Orchud                  Ha              680         680          680       2,040       1,000         800        1.100       2,900
- WoodlotMuigement                Ha                10         35          50          95          300         600         600        1,500
- Roadside Planting               Km               20          20          20           60         800         600         500        1.900
4 Extension ad Training                    Lunp                I           I           1           3         500         600         600        1.700
5 Adminitration - SaiwiesandWages          Lump                I          I            1          3          600         600         700        1.90
- Operations/Maintenance     LuMp               I            I           1          3         900         1.000       1,200       3.100
Total                                                                                                     6.800       7,500       8,550      22,150
3   Sources of Fend
I Intenadly Generated Revenue                                                                              1,500       2,000       2,050        5,550
2 Federal Grant                                                                                              800        1,000       1,000       2.800
3 State Gwnt                                                                                               4.500        4,500       5,500      14,500
Total                                                                                                     6,800       7,50t 8.550            22,350
05 Katsina Afforetatlon Program
A. Application of Fund
I Seedling Production                     '000 No           200         200         200         600          500         500         500       1I500
2 Shetbelt Management                       Km               35          35           35         105         370         445         486        1,301
3 Woodlots  - Gum Arabic                     Ha           S/LGA       51LGA       5/LGA      15/LGA          210         250         275          735
- WoodlottOrehard                Ha           IO/LGA      IOILGA      IOLGA       301LGA         400          400         400        1,200
- WoodlotManageaent              Ha               20          20          20          60         250          300         345         895
4 Extnslon and Training                    Lump                I           I           I           3         500         0OO          800       2,100
5 Administration - Snauies and Wages       Lump                I           I           1           3        1,440       1,512       1,616       4.568
- Opentioat/Maintenance      Lump                I          I            1           3        1,200       1,200       2,000       5.0
Total                                                                                                    4,870        6,007       6,422      17,299



Operational Plans (JulIY 199- December 199) Continued
-                    Physikal targn                ~~                    ~Finncial Resources (IN'4'0
S/Ne.                 Item                      Unit           I96         19S7         1598       Total        1996        l"7          M9S        Totml
05 Katsina Afforesbtion Program (Cont.)
B. Sourets of Fund
lntemajly Genceatd Revenue                                                                                 500          700         600        1.t00
Federai Grant                                                                                               150        1,357       1,657      3.864
State Grant                                                                                               3,520       3,950       4,165       11.635
Total                                                                                                     4,870       6,W07       6,422       17,299
06 Kcbbi Afforettatiom Program
A. Applecatdoa of Fund
I ScedlingProdocdon                        *OOONo            500         500         500        1,500       1.300       1,500       1,750       4.550
2 Shelterbelt Managcmcnt                    Km               231         240         250         728         200         200          200         600
3 Woodlots - GumArabic                       Ha                2           2           2           6         700          700         700       2,100
- WoodIotK)rchard                  Ha               13          13          13          21        2,550       2,550       2,550       7,650
4 Extension and Training                    Lanp               I           I           1           3         400        1,000       1,000       2,400
5 Administration  Salwies and Wages         Lump               I           I           1           3        2.500       3,050       3,900       9,450
- Operation/Maintenance       Lump               I           I           1           3        1,150       2,600       2,800       6,550
Tohtl                                                                                                     8,800       11,600      15,500      33,300
B. Sources of Fund
I Intemally Gencrated Revenuc                                                                               1,700       4.100       5,400       11,200
2 Federal Grant                                                                                             1.000       1,500       1,500       4,000
3 State Grant                                                                                               6,100       6,000       6,000       18.100
Total                                                                                                     8,800       11,600      12,900      33,300



45
Operational Plans (July 1996 - December 1998). Continued
Physical Target                                  Fliancial Resources (N'00)
SlNe.                 Item                      Unit            1396        199          1"3        Total        1996         1997        1991        Total
07 Plateau Afforestatioo Program
A. Application of Fund
I Seedling Production                      '000 No            300       1,000        1,000       2,800        300          300         900        2.500
2 Woodlots    WoodlotlOrchard                Ha           15/LGA      15/LGA       15/LGA      45JLGA          600         800         900        2.300
- Orchard Management             Ha               200         300         400         900          200         250          275         725
- RoadsidePlantMaintenance       Km                20          40          60         120          100         100          100         300
3 Extension nd Training                     Lump                I           I           1           3          500         500         o00         1.800
4 Administration - Salaries Nd Wages        Lump                I           I           1           3        2.000        2.000       2,700       6.700
- Operations/Maintenance      Lunp               I            I           1           3        1,000       1,100        1,200       3.300
Total                                                                                                      5,200       5,550        6,875      17,625
L Sources of Fund
Intcnally Gencrated Revenue                                                                                2,244        2,460       3.313        8,017
Federal Grant                                                                                                956         390        1;162        3.00S
State Orant                                                                                                2,000        2,200       2.400       6,600
Total                                                                                                      5,200        5,550       6,375       17,625
08 Sokoto Afferestation Program
A. Application of Fund
I Seedlirg Production                      '000 No           200          300         400         900          700         300        1,200       2.700
2 Shelterbell- Establishment                 Km                10          10          to          30          500         500         50o        1,500
- Management                       Km              742         772          812        2.326         100        1.000       1,000       2.100
3 Woodlots - GumArabic                       Ha            5Q/GA       5/1LGA       S/LGA      15/LGA          300         500          450        1.250
- Woodlot/Orchard                  Ha            7/LGA       7/LGA       7/QGA      21/LGA         1.000        1,300       1,050       3,350
- Woodlot Management               Ha              445         470          495        1,410 |00                 600         600        2,000
- Roadside Planting                Km               10           10          10          30         800          300         500        2,100
4 Extension and Training                    Lump                I           I           1           3          800         600          400        1.800
5 Administration - Salaries and Wages       Lump                I           I           1           3        3.960        4,000       4,500       12,460
- Opcrations/Maintenance      Lump               I            I           1           3        1,100        1,200       1,700       4.000
Total                                                                                                      10,060      11300        11,900      33,260



46
Operational Plans (July 1996 - December 1998). Conflnmed
Pbyskil Teriet                                   Finanidal Resoures (NWO0)
S/No.                 Item                      Unit            1"6         1997        299s       Towa         1996        2997        3           Total
08 Sokoto Afforestation Program (CoOL)
B. Sources of Fund
I Intemally Generated Revenue                                                                                270         890        1,110       2,270
2 Fdedal Grant                                                                                              2,790       2,410       2,790       7,990
3 State Grnt                                                                                                7.000       S 000       S.000      23.000
Total                                                                                                     0.lo06     21300        t 1.90      33.260
09 Yobe Aflorestation Program
A.  Appliction of Fund
I Seedling Poduction                       '000 No           400         400         400        1,200       1,000       1.200       1.300       3.500
2 ShdetebeltManagcinent                      KRn             550         655         655        1,860        510          500         600        1,610
3 Woodlols  -  mhn Anbic                     Ha           5/LGA       S/LGA        5/LGA      I 5Q/GA        200         350          450        1,000
- Woodlot/Orchrd                 Ha           IO/LGA      IOQLOA      IO,GA      301LGA        1,050        1.150       1,050       3.450
- Woodlot Mangement              Ha               So          50          50          150         150         200         250         600
4 Extension and Training                    Lump               I           I           1           3         350          350         400        1.100
5 Administration* Saniies and Wages         Lump               I           I           1           3        1,600       1.500       1.500       4.600
- Operations/Maintenance     Lwmp                I           I I                     3        2.000       2,000       2,700       6,700
Totel                                                                                                     6,S60       7,250       8.450      22,560
B. Sources of Fund
Intemnally Generted Revenue                                                                                 800         800        1.100       2.700
Fcderacd  nt                                                                                                 60         890        1.850       2.S00
Sune Grant                                                                                                6.000        5,560       5,500      17?060
Total                                                                                                     6,860        7,250       3,450      22.560



47
Operational Plans (July 1996 - December 1995). Continued
Physical Target                                  Financial Resources (N'O00)
S/No.                 Itam                      Unit           1996        1997         1991       Total        1996        1997        1998        Total
10 Kaduna Forest Management Program
A. Application of Fund
I SeedlingProduction                      'OOONo            400         400          400       1.200        1.000       1,000      1000        3.000
2 Plantation Maintenance                     Ha            3,000       3,000       3,500       9,500       2,560        2,560       3.000       8,120
3 Administration - Salaics and Wages       Lump                I           I                       3        5,200       2,670       2,960      10,S30
- Operations/Maintenance     Lump                I           I           1           3       3,000        4,000       5,000      12p000
- Equipmcnt Purchase         Lump                I          0            0           1      23,000           0           0       28,000
- Liabilities                Lump                I           I           1           3       2,000       10.000       5,000       17?000
Total                                                                                                    41,760      20,230      16,960       78,950
B SourceS of Fund
I Intemally Gnerated Revenu                                                                                  750        7,615       5,376      13,741
2 Sale of Equipment                                                                                        50.000          0            0      50,000
3 Federa Grant                                                                                               500        1,000       1,000       2,500
4 Stat Grant                                                                                                4,125      12,000      12,000      28.125
Totd                                                                                                     55,375.     20,615      11,376       94.366
II Kogi Forest Management Program
A. Appilkstio of Fund
I Plntaton Managenent                       Ha             3,437       3,537       3,637      10,611       2,700        3,600       3,400       9,700
2 Plantation Establishbent- Project          Ha              100         100         100         300        1.800       1.800       1,900        5,500
- Privatc              Ha               25          40          50         110         200         200          300         700
3 Administration  Salafies and Wages       LUMp                I           I           1           3         300          350         350        1,000
- Operations/Maintenance     LUmp                I           I           1           3         500         600          600        1.700
Total                                                                                                    5S500        6,550        6,550      18.600
S. Sources of Fund
I Intcrnally Gcnerated Revenue                                                                              1,700       1,870       2,930        6,550
2 Sal of Tcak                                                                                               7,044       7,933       7,933       22,910
3 Feder lGrant                                                                                               500          500        1.000       2,000
4 State Grant                                                                                                300          350         350        1,000
Total                                                                                                     9,544       10,653      12,263      32.460



48
Operstional Plans (July 1996- December 1998). Continued
Pbhyskal Target                                   Financial Resonrcts (N'W00)
S1No.                 Item                      Unit           1996         1997        199t       Total        1996        1997        1998        Total
12 Ogun Forest Management Program
A. App1ieatleofFund
1 Plaation Management                        Ha           33,094      33,394      33,744      100,232      33.000      26.000      29,000      88,000
2 Plantation Establishmient                  ia              300         300         350         950        3,000      20,000      23,000      51,000
3 Training and Extension                    Lump               I           I           I           3        1,000       2,000       2,000       5.000
4 Administration - Sbries and Wages         Lump               I           I           1           3        2,000       7,000       6,000       15.000
- Operstions/Maintenartce    LumP                I           I           1           3        9.000      15,000      17,000      41,000
Total                                                                                                    53,000      70.005       77,00(1    2001000
D. Soures of Fond
I Intemally GenrAtd Revenue                                                                                 2,600       3.120         504       6,224
2 Sae oftTeak                                                                                              90,54S     108,655     130.390     329,596
3 Fedcral Grnt                                                                                               500        1,000        1,000      2,500
4 Stae Grant                                                                                                2,000       7.000       6,000       15,000
Total                                                                                                    95,648      119,77S     137,894     353320
13 Onds Forest Management Programn
A. Applitelon of Fund
I Plantation Managemenl                      Ha           17,694      17,979       13,279      53,952      17,000      17,900      18,600      53.500
2 Plantation Esablishment - Project          Ha              300         300         300         900        3,000       6,000      4,5000       13,500
- Private              Ha                0           0         100        1t|            0            0        1,500       1,500
3 Training and Extension                    Lump               I           I           1           3         200          200         200         600
4 Administration  Salaies and Wages         Lump               I           I           1           3        3.000       3,200        3,500       9.700
- Operations/Maintenance      Lump               I           I           1           3        7,000       9,000       9.500       25,500
Tobtl                                                                                                    30.200       36,30       37,S00     104300
B. Sources of Fund
I Intcrnally Generated Revenue                                                                              2,600       3.120       3.644        9.364
2 Sale of Teak                                                                                             38,666      46,399       55.679     140,744
3 Fcderal Grant                                                                                               500        1.000       1,000       2.,sno
4 State Grant                                                                                               3,000       3,200        3,500       9,700
Total                                                                                                    44,766       53,719      63,823     162,308



49
Operational Plans (July 1996 - December 1998). Continued
Pbystcal Target                                  Financial Reources (N'Ol0)
S/No.                 Item                     Unit          I6          1997        1993       Total        1996        1997        Im         Total
14 FORMECUIAPCU
A. Applkation of Fund
I Studies - Impact Asssssnent. ICR          No               2           6           1           9       2,700        3,600      3,400       9,700
- Project Identification            No                0           1           0           1           0       3,000          0        3.000
- Forest Legislation Review         No                0           1           0           1           0         S00          0          500
- Forest Data Bank Center           No                0           1           0           1          0       20,000          0       20.000
2 Supcrvision - EMP,FRM,FRS                Lump              I           I           1           3           0        2,000      2,500       4.500
- NFAPRoundTable                No                I          0            0           I          0         300           0          300
- ConservationCarnpaign         No                0           1           1          2           0         S00         500        1,000
- Teclhnkl Support to States   Lump               I           I           1          3         200        1,000       2.000       3,200
3 Adnministon - Saariesand Wages          Lump               I           I           1           3         700       3,400       9,000       13,100
- Operations/Maintenance     Lump                          I                                 S 3  100  10,000      12,000      22,S00
- TraninglWorkshops          Lump              I           I           I           3           0       2.000        3.000       5.000
-Publictions                 Lamp              I           I           1           3           0         700        1.500       2.200
rowta                                                                                                   4,400      SI2M0       33,900      90300
B. Somea of Fund
I Internlly Gencrated Revenue                                                                                0        1,000       1.500       2,500
2 Federal Grant                                                                                           5,200      76,000       6,600      17.500
Total                                                                                                   5,200      77,0W        8.100      90.300



50
Appendix B
SECTOR-SPECIFIC DATA
Table 1: Achievements of the Afforestation Program
Bauchi       Borne       Yobe (a)      Kano       Jigaws (a)    Katsina     Plateau       Sokoto     Kebbi (a)      All APs
Item                    T     A     T      A     T     A      T I A        T     A      T     A     T      A     T     A    T       A      T       A
Seedling Production
Nurseries (No.)
. Project                2    13     8      16    .     24    13       9    .     I 1    3     8     II    14      9     10          20     46     125
- Private                -   630      -   822     .    179          1718    -   901      -   309          353      -   738     -   405           6055
Seedlings prod. (m.)
- Project              2.3    5.3   7.9    8.6    .    3.4   13.6    8.7    -    6.5   3.4    3.5  12.7  10.7    9.3   17.4    -    4.8    49.2  118.1
-Private                     0.8           1.4    .    0.4      .    2.0         3.5     -    1.6     -    1.9          1.0    -    0.2           12.8
Farm Forestry
Contact familics ('000)  7.0  23.7  30.0   17.3        14.2  56.0    42.4    -  76.9   17.0  21.3   52.0  55.5   35.0  59.1         1 I9.3  197.0  329.7
Clubs/institutions (No.)  -   409           79          57      .   1335     -  1321      -   256      .   401      -    65     -    41       .   3964
Self help groups (No.)        390     -      -          86      -   1338     -   766           52      .    3             -     -         -       2667
Woodlot estab. (ha.)
- Project                .    60      -    124    .    173      .    215    -     67     -    27                          5           -            684
- Private                     90      -   313          173      -    976        1584     -   412      -   549      -    348         437           4882
Orchard estab. (ha.)                  -     34          33      -    361     -   132           90            7      -   462         450       -   1569
Roadside planting (km.)  -    125     -    105          40           669     -    68      -    43            7      -    53     .    84       -   1194
Women in forestry
- groups formed (No.)    -     7      -     25    .     25             _          14      -    25          79             3          26            204
- gardens (No.)          .   100      -     20    -   1158            66    .     92      -   266          30      -      3           7       -   1742
- improved stoves (No.)      105      -   1250    -    775            40         300      -   613          100     -     80     -   250       .   3513
Media support
- radio/TV (No.)         -   359      -    575    -     27           700         464      -   150          155     -     69     -   148       -   2647
- postes ('000)          -   15.1     -    7.0    -    11.0     .   31.4         7.5      -   5.5     -   21.0     -    5.0     -   2.1       -   112.6
Farmers trained ('000)    -   2.0     -     0.5    -    0.4           0.8    -   25.4     -    0.7     -   0.9      -    0.6    -    0.2           31.5
Shelterbelt estab. (km.)  210  161  425    550     -    130   540    406     -    135    18    25      -          525   559     -    117    1718   2083
Funding (USSm.) (b)
State Govemment         0.5   0.5   1.1     0.8    -    0.7    1.4    1.7    -    0.3   0.4    0.3   0.8   0.4    1.5    1.3    -    1.4     5.7    7.4
Federal Government      0.2   0.1   0.5     0.1    -    0.1    0.7    0.3    -    0.0   0.2    0.0   0.4   0.1    0.8    0.1    -    0.1     2.8    0.9
Community               0.3   0.1    0.8    0.3    -    0.1    1.0    0.7         1.1   0.3    0.4   0.6    0.4   1.1    0.5    -    0.3     4.1    3.9
World Bank              2.6   2.8   6.3     4.4    -    2.5    8.3    4.6         1.4   2.2    1.4   4.6   2.4    8.7    3.8    -    2.8    32.7   26.1
Total                   3.6   3.5    8.7    5.6    .    3.4   11.4    7.3         2.8   3.1    2.1   6.4    3.3  12.1    5.7     -   4.6    45.3   38.3
Note:   T   = Target, as specified at appraisal and modified at MTR.
A = Achievemeni
(a) - Figures arc for 1992 - June 1996 for Yobe, Jigawa and Kebbi and 1988 - June 1996 for the rest.
(b) - Counterpart fund contributions are converted at prevailing average exchange rates in year of release.



51
Table 2: Achievements of the Forest Management Program
Ksduna               Kegi                Ogun                Ondo               All FMPs
Item                                T         A         T         A         T         A         T         A         T          A
Plantation Management
Inventory (ha.)                     4560      2724      2726      2942      3656      1580         -                10942       7246
Roadlride maintenance (km.)          610       610       643       643      1043       944       930       478       3226       2675
Thinnirng (ha.)                     2710      1650      3107      2766      1920      1119      2430      2000       10167      7535
Revenue fiom thinning (N m.)                   23.4        -        3.3        .        1.1               35.8          -       63.6
Plantation &tablishment
Seedling production (million)        4.3       6.2       2.2       2.1       0.8       0.5       1.6        1.8        8.9       10.6
Planting (ha.)                      2450      2923       700       774       400       276      1100      1100       4650       5073
Weeding (ha.)                       3344      3178      5587      4951       552       552       947       947      10430       9628
Other cultural operations (ha.)    10596      8551      2530      1065      3854      3195      4500      4350      21480       17161
Roadiride construction (km.)         165       165        16        14       350       120        20        20        551        319
Funding (US$m.) (a)
State Government                      2.2      3.9        1.1       1.3      0.9       0.6        0.8       1.0        5.0        6.8
Federal Govenrnent                    1.1       0.3       0.6       0.2       0.4       0.1       0.4       0.2        2.5        0.8
Internally generated revenue                    0.8                 0.2        .        02                  0.8                   2.0
IBRD                                 10.2      11.1       5.0       4.9       4.2       2.4       3.8       2.9       23.2       21.3
Total                                13.5      16.1       6.7       6.6       5.5       3.3       5.0       4.9       30.7       30.9
Note:    T - Target, as specified at appraisal and modified at MTR.
A = Achievement during 1988 - June 1996.
(a) = Counterpat fund contributions are converted at prevailing averagc cxchange rates in year of rclease.



Appendix C
NIGERIA SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 2760 - UNI)
I(I)RROWER'S
IMPLEMENTA'I( )N COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PREPARED BY:
FORMECU
FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY
FEDERAL MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND NATURAL RESOURCES
JULY, 1996.



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.0 INTRODUCTION
The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) received a loan of
US$71 million from the World Bank for the execution of Second
Forestry Development Project (Forestry II). The Loan became
effective in 1987 and was to last for eight years.   However,
Loan effectiveness was extended by one year and finally closed
by June 30, 1996.
1.1 BACKGROUND
Banking on the success story of the First Forestry Development
Project (Forestry I) 1979 - 1986, Forestry II was initiated to
strengthen the management of established plantations and to
further  establish   new  plantations.    It   also  included
afforestation   programme   in   the   semi-arid   zone   and
strengthening of the structural base of the subsector through
capacity building.
The project therefore consisted of (i) Forest Management
component implemented in Ogun, Ondo, Kogi and Kaduna States;
(ii) Afforestation component implemented in Kano, Bauchi,
Plateau, Jigawa, Kebbi, Sokoto, Katsina, Yobe and Borno
States; and (iii) Programme Management component under overall
supervision of FORMECU with its regional office APCU in Kano.
The project was executed under the supervision of the Federal
Department of Forestry (FDF) in the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (FMANR).
2.0 PROJECT OBJECTIVES/DESCRIPTION
The objectives of Forestry II Project were: to strengthen the
structural base of the sector through improved policies,
training, studies and research; to stabilize soil conditions
in threatened areas and to increase the supply of fuelwood,
poles and fodder through farm forestry and shelterbelt
activities; and to increase the supply of industrial wood by
improving the management of existing forest reserves and
plantations and establishing new plantations.
The project comprised the following components:
(i) An Afforestation Programme to produce 41 million tree
seedlings for farm/social forestry programmes covering 750,000
ha, establishment of 1,700 km of shelterbelts to protect
34,000 ha, and registration of 250,000 farm families to
participate  in afforestation activities;      (ii)  A Forest
Management Programme to support improved management of about
37,600 ha of existing plantations and establishment of 3,150
ha of new plantations in Kaduna and Kogi States and (iii)



(ii)
Strengthening institutional capacity through training, policy
analysis, research and studies.
3.0 EVALUATION OF PROJECT DESIGN AND/OBJECTIVES
The project objectives were clear, realistic and reflected
Nigeria's need for forestry development and environmental
rehabilitation. However, participatory approach to include
all stake-holders was not in place and could be regarded as
oversight though partly corrected during the mid-term review.
4.0 IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Forestry II Programme mandate has been implemented through a
well coordinated management structure. The enshrined working
document organogrammes were fully put in place and necessary
modifications made to enhance efficiency.
FORMECU had overall responsibility to provide technical and
financial guidance on implementation to the entire programme
while its regional office APCU coordinated the implementation
of AP activities. The FORMECU and APCU management committee
regulated daily operations while FORMECU Board was responsible
to advise government on progress and problems.
The State project implementation unit, implemented at the
field level, the programmes' objectives of the various
components while FORMECU/APCU provided technical assistance in
the areas of design, supervision, monitoring, evaluation,
manpower development, policy guideline, reports, procurement,
finance, engineering and consultancy services.
5.0  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
The project achieved substantially its major objectives as
highlighted below.
5.1  PROGRAMME MANAGEMENT (FORMECU/APCU)
The   scope  of   programme  management   was   institutional
development which covered the whole country.
The programme management successfully carried out seventeen
major  studies.    The  outcome  of  some  of  these  studies
influenced changes in government policies in the sub-sector.
Also, 219 staff benefitted from foreign training, 1160 from
Local training while 34,992 individuals, including rural
farmers, benefitted from in-house courses.



(iii)
During the project life, FORMECU maintained three training
centres; viz: Forestry Manpower Development Centre (FMDC)
oluwa; Forestry Vocational Training Centre (FVTC) Kano and
Forest Utilization Centre (FUC) Benin.
5.2  AFFORESTATION PROGRAMME (AP)
The nine Afforestation Project States executed the planned
activities and exceeded the targets in some, by substantial
margins.
Activities which were carried out included establishment and
operation   of   nurseries,   seedling  production,    seedling
distribution, shelterbelt establishment and maintenance.
Others were farm forestry comprising woodlot and orchard
establishment and deliberate integration of trees on farm
lands. Women participation were encouraged through women in
forestry programme.    Some collaborative research were also
carried out with other institutions. (See Table 1).
Table I.  Achievement of Afforestation Programme.
Activity                    Unint   Target    Achievement   A
_______    ___ __________ Achiev.
1. Nursery Establishment    No.       6,536       5,543     84.8
2. Seedling Production      No    89,926,000  83,950,526    93.4
3. Shelterbelt Establishment  Km      2,123       2,298    108.2
4. Farm Forestry
a. Contact Farm Families    No       294,147    315,595    106.3
b. Woodlot Establishment    Ha        8,053       8,453    104.9
c. Fruit Orchards           Ha        1,191       1,S39    129.2
d. Roadside Planting        Km          699         686     98.1
The  calculated   Economic  Rate   of  Return   (ERR)  for  the
afforestation component taking into account APCU costs is
15.82% while the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is 26.4%.
5.3 FOREST MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME 3FMP)
About 37,600 ha existing pre-project plantations were
maintained.      Major    management   activities    included:-
inventory,   thinning,   forest   protection,   fire  tracing,
road/ride maintenance and construction, and construction of
fire suppression water points. Also 4910,2 ha of new



(iv)
plantations were established with about 4517357 seedlings
produced during the project life. (See Table II)
Table II.   Achievement in Pre-project Plantation Management
and New Plantation Establishment.
Activity                     Unint   Target    Achievement  |
Achiev.
Plantation Establishment
1. Seedling Production      No.   7,844,340   10,379,306   132.3
2. Planting                  Ha       4,660        5,083   109.1
3. Weeding                  Ha       10,403       9,601.4   92.3
4. Cultural Operation       Ha       20,661      17,161     83.1
Pre- rolect plantation
5. Inventory                Ha      10,663        8,800     82.5
6. Thinning                 Ha      15,238       11,428.4   75.0
7. Forest Protection        Ha      39,792.8     38,928.8   97.8
8. Fire Tracing             km       2,963.4      2,904.7   98.0
9. Roads/Rides Maint        km      13,692       13,593.3   99.3
10. Roads/Rides Construction  km    3,786.2        1,552.4   41.0
11. Fire Tower               No                        3
12. Fire Suppression Water   No       50              36     72.0
Points.__                         _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
The calculated Economic Rate of Return (ERR), taking into
account FORMECU and Iwopin Pulp and Paper Mill is 14.26%,
while the calculated Internal Rate of Return (IRR) is 22.8%.
The IRR without Iwopin Pulp and Paper Mill is 11.56%.
5.4 MAJOR FACTORS THAT AFFECTED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) introduced during
the implementation years and the depreciation of the naira
resulted in high inflation, increases in labour and
operational costs. These increased the local costs component
in terms of counterpart fund provision i.-quired to draw down
the loan amount.    Also increase in fVL.   price from 70k to
N11.00 per litre made cost of field oper    ions and monitoring
high.
Inadequate and untimely Federal/State go--rnments'. counterpart
funding and frequent removal of key proi t officers affected
execution of project activities.
Non involvement of local people at the planning and
implementation    of   activities    like   shelterbelts    and
inadequate intersectoral linkages resulted in high cost of
implementation and conflicts amongst land users.
6-0  PIIOJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND TIME-TABLE
The total project cost was US$110.70 million. The World Bank
contribution was US$71.00 million (64.0%), FGN contributed
US$27.70 million (25.0%) and participating State contributed
US$12.00 (11.0%).



(v)
During the mld-term review, the bank contribution to the
project was raised to 75.0%.    The FGN contribution to the
project was reduced to US$9.2 million (9.5%), while the
States' contribution was also reduced marginally to US$10.7
million (11.0%).
At project completion in June 30, 1996, actual project cost
was US$95.0 million and Bank's share       stood at US$71.00
million.
7.0  PROJECT RESULTS/OUTCOMZ
The performance of Forestry II was satisfactory. Objectives
were largely met despite the inflation in the country, low
counterpart funding and unstable political climate.       The
project   results/outcome   are  reviewed   under   different
components stated below:
7.1  Proaramyne Man3gement
The Programme Management has been able to: Sensitize policy
makers on forestry development through adequate forest product
pricing,   integrate   forestry  development   plan   (NFAP),
continuous support for forestry development in the future
through establishment of Forestry Trust Fund in all States of
the   Federation;   build   institutional  capacity   through
quantitative and qualitative training at Federal, State and
Farmer levels and also acquire adequate physical infrastruc-
ture such as office and residential accommodations, training
schools, publicity equipments/machineries, computers, etc.;
increase level of awareness for private participation in
forestry and environmental management; evolve a comprehensive
new forestry resource monitoring system which is first of its
kind and also instituted computerized accounting system at the
programme management unit and project States.
7.2  Afforestation Proaramme
The Af forestarion Programme was environrmentally supportive and
had positive environmental benefits to the project areas and
macro environment at large. There was general improvement in
the quality of life resulting from direct derivable benefits
from  the  p-.-ogramme.  The  Afforestation   Programme  also
empowered women towards conservation and engagement in income
generating activities.
7.3  Forest Management Proaramme
The Forest Management Programme scientifically managed 36,137
ha of existing industrial plantation of teak, gmelina,
eucalyptus and pine. A total of 1,966 ha, 2,238 ha and 509 ha
of new plantations of teak, eucalyptus and pines was
respectively covered.    From the analyses of the inventory
carried out in the programme states, Ogun has a total volume



(vi)
of 1,677,884 m3 of teak and 7,974,502 "3 of Gmelina.     Ondo,
Kogi and Kaduna has 826,950 m3, 260,138 m3 and 280,198 m3 of
teak respectively.
The wood conversion capability developed during the project
implementation has enhanced conversion efficiency.        The
project also contributed significantly to rural development in
the project   areas.    Some  of  the  critical  areas  worth
mentioning are building and running of schools and clinics,
provision of electricity, portable water and access roads to
project sites and surrounding villages.       Individuals and
communities within project areas have started establishing
forest plantations/ woodlots. There was equally a noticeable
increase in employment opportunities to rural people within
the project areas.    The project brought about significant
increase in the rural economy in the project sites and
immediate vicinities.
8.0 SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT OPERATIONS
The issue of sustainability of the project to produce a
continuous flow of inputs, benefits and services long after
project life and adapt to changing economic, technical and
social conditions has been a matter of serious concern. This
is so as the project components do not have the capacity to
generate adequate income and resources to sustain their
activities. From all indications, the programme management,
forest management and the afforestation components would
continue to rely on governments financial support in order to
sustain the gains already achieved and carry out its functions
in the future.    However, great potential abounds for the
forest management component to be able to generate sufficient
returns on inivestment to not only sustain the gains of the
past but also provide resources for repayment of the loan.
9.0 FUNDING PARTIES' PERFORMANCE
9.1 BANK PERFORMANCE
During the project implementation, the funding and supervision
of the project was satisfactory. Total loan at appraisal and
various reallocations were disbursed and utilized.
Re-imbursement of expenses and 'No objection' response to
intended execution of activities were good.
9.2 BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The Federal Government of Nigeria and the participating state
governments (the borrower of the loan) gave support throughout
the implementation period. The borrower also complied with
major loan covenants and commitments though funding was
however not adequate (26%) and the release was irregular and
untimely.



(vii)
10.0 LESSONS LEARNT
During the implementation period of this project, the
following lessons were learnt:
The   participatory   approach   to  project   planning   and
implementation has more than emphasized the need to identify
all stake-holder groups and involve them in the planning and
decisions  concerning  project   execution.    Community  and
individual participation in project activities are critical
for project sustainability beyond public funding. A stable
project management unit with minimal interference in the day-
to-day management of the project are crucial pre-requisites
for  successful  execution/   implementation.    The  Unified
Agriculture Extension Services (UAES) was not very effective
in non-agroforestry components of tree-planting. The need for
proper inter-sectoral linkages should be re-iterated.     The
solutions to the problems of environmental degradation require
an integrated and multi-dimensional approach in order to
improve project   performance.    Project  design should   be
flexible enough to accommodate modifications and revisions
during implementation. Local personnel have the capability to
execute environmental development projects successfully if
sufficiently  motivated.    Reliable   baseline  data  before
commencement of project makes assessment of impact at project
completion feasible and easy.



FORESTRY MANAGEMENT, EVALUATION AND CO-ORDINATING UNIT
Federal Ministry of Agriculture,
ind Natural Resources
as .                     FUiMU               Federal Department of Forestry,
6247                                    P. M. B. 226,
Tat: 23 - 0432e6t                            Abuja, Nlgeria.
PO 224 - 0S.82Z~32
R.f.N3~ ruICU/TAflJA4u112/II/46           March      26,     97.
Dr. Samuel Eremie,                                 2 6 MAR St?
The World Bank,                   .T _
Asokoro District,
Abuja.
COMMENTS ON BANK's DRAFT ICR.
I am directed to send the attached comments in respect of the
above for your further action please.
The delay is regretted.
Kindly accept our regards.
A.0. Ruidele.
For: t ad FORMECU.
World Bank & A.D.B.Assisted Forestry Dev. & Environmental Programme



COMMENTS ON BANK'S DRAFT ICR
-    The research component maintained two Automatic Weather
stations for environmental monitoring in the semi arid
zone. Data collected could be very useful in planning
and management of subsequent projects.
-    The target for shelterbelt establishment as given under
paragraph 12 of page i(b) is correct, but instead of
this same figure to appear under page ii paragraph 8, a
figure of 1918 was given as the target. This needs to
be corrected.
-   The number of seedlings produced from project nurseries
(110 Million) that were actually distributed to farmers
should be about 85% and not 95% as stated in the araft
report. This is because, 3,333 seedlings are used per
kilometer of shelterbelt. Therefore, for 2,083km it
will require at least a total of 6,942,639 seedlings.
It should therefore be about 85% and not 95% as
contained in the report.
-   No mention was made of Forestry Vocational Training
Centre (FVTC), Kano and Forestry Manpower Development
Centre (FMDC), Oluwa under the
sustainability/Operational plan in the report. They
were prominent components in the borrowers ICR under
the sustainability plan.
Page ii, Paragraph 6, 3rd to last line: Consultancies not
consultanies.
Para 1, Introduction: Was non-completion of Iwopin really
"a reconsideration of the viability of the mill by the
FGN?" .  We think financial pressures would suffice.
Page 3, Paragraph 10, last sentence: At the meeting held in
Women Development Centre last year, DDF suggested deleting
or rephrasing this sentence.
Page 6, Paragraph 20, last sentence: With the submission of
a draft report of the Impact Assessment, is it not possible
to include data contained therein on the impact of AP in
stabilizing soil conditions and improving fuelwood supply in
the semi-arid North?.
Page 9, Paragraph 31:   It was programme management and a few
project units that expressed dissatisfaction with the
quality of services provided by IAPSO and not a "few project
states"



PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The FMP could sustain itself if projects are allowed free
hand to handle the sale of Forest produce at economic rate.
Part of the proceeds should also be ploughed back to the
project to keep the sustainable vehicle moving and guarantee
means to pay off the loan.
Para. 26
Lack of market for Gmelina thinnings rather than lack of
market for plantation produce.
Para. 35 (iii) PTF could be added to non traditional
sources.
Para 37 (vii) Minimum period for forestry, project
implementation should be five years for the results to be
visible and felt.



