Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H326-KH   
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Rural Investment and Local Governance Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 14, 2007 
Page  2
2
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated August 14, 2007, entered into between KINGDOM OF 
CAMBODIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
twenty 
three 
million 
eight 
hundred 
thousand 
Special 
Drawing 
Rights             
(SDR 23,800,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is US Dollars. 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the NCDD Program 
Support Team. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Economy and Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Street 92, Sangkat Wat Phnom, KH12202 
 Phnom 
Penh 
 
Kingdom of Cambodia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
855-23-427798  
 
Page  5
3
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433  
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Phnom Penh, Cambodia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA 
 
By: /s/ Keat Chhon 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Ian C. Porter 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient in its rural development 
and poverty reduction efforts through supporting provision of priority public goods and 
infrastructure at the commune level, as well as promoting good local governance through 
support of decentralized and deconcentrated participatory local governance systems at the 
commune and provincial levels. 
The Project consists of the Original Project.
 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements.
 
1. 
Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement is incorporated by reference in 
this Additional Financing Agreement, and the provisions thereof shall apply 
mutatis 
mutandis 
to this Agreement, subject, however, to the following modification, unless the 
context otherwise requires: 
 references to the “Borrower” shall be construed as references 
to the “Recipient”. 
 
2. 
(a) 
Subject to sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, the Recipient undertakes 
to comply with the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Section 
as if those provisions had been set out and reproduced in full in this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the Recipient has 
been notified otherwise by the Association: 
 
(i) 
all actions taken, including approvals given by the Association, 
pursuant to any of the provisions referred to in paragraph 1 of 
this Section, shall be deemed to have been taken or given 
pursuant to this Agreement; and 
 
(ii) 
all information or documentation furnished by the Recipient to 
the Association pursuant to any of the provisions referred to in 
paragraph 1 of this Section shall be deemed to have been 
furnished pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall implement in a manner satisfactory to the Association such 
Good Governance Framework as shall have been agreed with the Association. 
4. 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, no contract under the 
Procurement Plan that is financed as an Eligible Expenditure under this Agreement shall 
be an Eligible Expenditure for financing under the Development Credit Agreement. 
5. 
The Recipient and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that the 
proceeds of the Credit provided for in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed 
on account of expenditures for the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Financing provided for in this Additional Financing Agreement.  
Page  8
6
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
The  Recipient  shall  prepare  and  furnish  to  the  Association  not  later  than        
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  9
7
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding.  
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding subject to procedures listed in the Annex to 
this Schedule 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Community Participation, under procedures acceptable to the Association 
(d)  Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Individual Consultants 
(d)  Single-Source Selection 
(e)  Least-Cost Selection 
(f)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
Page  10
8
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in SDR)
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Works under Part B(2) of 
the Project 
 
180,000 
 
90% 
(2) Goods under Part B (2) of 
the Project 
 
560,000 100% 
(3) Consultants’ Services 
 
(i) under Part B(1) of the 
Project 
 
(ii) under Part B(2) of the 
Project  
 
450,000 
 
3,120,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(4) Workshops  
under Part B(2) of the Project 
 
40,000 
 
100% 
Page  11
9
(5) Sub-project Grants 
under Part A(2) of the Project  
 
18,600,000 
 
100% 
(6) Operating Costs under Part 
B(1) of the Project  
 
790,000 
 
70% 
TOTAL 
 
23,800,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
Unless otherwise agreed to between the Recipient and the Association, and for 
the purposes of Section III. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement,  
 
(a) 
the Recipient shall use the services of a procurement agent engaged by 
the MEF under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association for all 
procurement to be undertaken under the Project except for Community 
Participation procedures and procurement from United Nations Agencies, and 
 
(b)  
without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of this paragraph, 
until such time as the procurement agent is engaged, the NCDD Program Support 
Team shall procure the goods, works and consultant services.    
 
B. 
For the purposes of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
guidance for implementing the Procurement Guidelines and the 
Consultant Guidelines 
is provided in the Kingdom of Cambodia’s Externally Assisted 
Project Procurement Manual: Goods, Works and Services, issued under Sub-Decree 14 
dated February 26, 2007, on Promulgating of the Standard Procedure for Implementing 
the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank Assisted Projects; and 
 
(b) 
Community Participation procedures acceptable to the Association will 
be set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Page  12
10
ANNEX to SCHEDULE 2 
National Competitive Bidding Procedures 
 The procedure to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall be those 
set forth in the 
Sub-decree 14 on Promulgating of the Standard Procedure for 
Implementing the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank Assisted Projects
 dated 
February 26, 2007 and relevant provisions of the 
Royal Government of Cambodia 
Externally Assisted Project Procurement Manual for Goods, Works and Services
 with 
modifications set forth below in order to ensure economy, efficiency and transparency 
and broad consistency with the provisions of Section I of the 
Guidelines for Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
 published by the Bank/Association in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 (the Guidelines) as required by paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
1. Eligibility 
 
The eligibility of bidders shall be as defined under Section I of the Guidelines; 
accordingly, no bidder or potential bidder shall be declared ineligible for 
contracts financed by the Association for reasons other than those provided in 
Section I of the Guidelines.  Foreign bidders shall not be asked or required to 
form joint ventures with national bidders in order to submit a bid.  Bidders 
located in the same province or city as the procuring entity shall not be given 
preference over bidders located outside that city or province. 
 
2. 
Qualification Criteria  
 
The assessment of the qualification of a bidder shall be conducted separately 
from the technical and commercial evaluation of the bid and in strict adherence 
to the qualification criteria that shall be clearly specified in the bidding 
documents.  Such assessment shall 
only take into account a bidder’s capacity and 
resources to perform the contract, specifically its experience and past 
performance on similar contracts, capabilities with respect to personnel, 
equipment and construction and manufacturing facilities, and financial capacity. 
 
3. 
Bid Submission, Bid Opening and Bid Evaluation 
 
(a) 
The evaluation of a bid shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
that shall be clearly specified in the bidding documents and quantified in 
monetary terms for evaluation criteria other than price; merit points shall not be 
used in bid evaluation. 
 
(b) 
No bidder shall be rejected on the basis of a comparison with the 
Recipient’s estimate and budget ceiling without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
Page  13
11
 
(c) 
A copy of the minutes of the public bid opening shall be promptly 
provided to all bidders and to the Association with respect to contracts subject to 
prior review. 
 
(d) 
Neither shall all bids be rejected nor shall new bids invited without 
Association’s prior written concurrence. 
 
4. 
Complaints by Bidders and Handling of Complaints 
 
The Recipient shall implement an effective and independent protest mechanism 
allowing bidders to protest and to have their protests handled in a timely manner. 
 
5. Fraud 
and 
Corruption 
 
The Association shall declare a firm or individual ineligible, either indefinitely or 
for a stated period, to be awarded a contract financed by the Association, if it at 
any time determines that the firm or individual has, directly or through an agent, 
engaged in corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in 
competing for, or in executing, a contract financed by the Association. 
 
6. 
Right to Inspect/Audit 
 
Each bidding document and contract financed from the proceeds of the Financing 
shall include a provision requiring bidders, suppliers, contractors and 
subcontractors to permit the Association, at its request, to inspect their accounts 
and records relating to the bid submission and performance of the contract and to 
have said accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the Association. 
The deliberate and material violation by a bidder, supplier, contractor or 
subcontractor of such provision may amount to obstructive practice. 
 
Page  14
12
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006.  
4. 
“Development Credit Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Rural Investment and Local Governance Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated June 18, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No 3747-KH).  
5. 
 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
6. 
“Operating Costs” means the reasonable costs of incremental expenditures 
incurred by the Recipient on account of implementation of Part B(1) of the 
Project, for coordination, supervision, monitoring and evaluation activities, 
including transportation and accommodations for the Project staff in carrying out 
monitoring and supervision activities, office supplies and consumables, 
communications and printing costs, and costs for operation and maintenance of 
the motor vehicles, which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the 
Project, but excluding salaries or salary supplements. 
7. 
 “Original Project” means the Project described in the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
8. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
9. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 10, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Page  15
13
10. 
“Workshops” means reasonable expenditures incurred by the Recipient for the 
workshops, including travel costs, lodging and travel per diem for workshop 
participants, preparation, translation and duplication of workshop materials, 
rental of audio-visual and other workshop-related equipment, rental of workshop 
venues, and consumables, but excluding fees paid to consultants and excluding 
salaries and salaries supplements, which expenditures would not have been 
incurred absent the Project. 
 
