                                       Documentof
                                 THE WORLD BANK

                             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                  ReportNo. 40212-KH




                                   PROJECTPAPER


                                           ONA


                  PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT


                     INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR23.8 MILLION
                         (US$36.25 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                             TO

                          THE KINGDOMOFCAMBODIA

                                          FORA

        RURAL INVESTMENT AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE PROJECT

                                       July 2,2007




Rural Development,NaturalResources and Environment Sector Unit
SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
EastAsia and PacificRegion


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
 performance o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
 World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
             (Exchange Rate Effective April 30,2007)

                       Currency Unit = SDR
                        1SDR =US$1.52493

                         July 01 -- June 30
                            Fiscal Year


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CDP         Commune Development Plan

CQS         SelectionBased on Consultants' Qualifications
CIP         Commune Investment Plan
C/S Fund    Commune/Sangkat Fund
D C A       Development Credit Agreement
DFID        Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment
EIRR        Economic Internal Rates o f Return
EOP         Endo fProject
FM          Financial Management
FR          Fiduciary Review
I C B       InternationalCompetitive Bidding
IDA         InternationalDevelopment Association
INT         Department o f Institutional Integrity
M&E         Monitoringand Evaluation
MEF         MinistryofEconomy andFinance
MOI         Ministryofthe Interior
MTR         MidTermReview
N C B       National Competitive Bidding
N C D D     National Committee for Management o f Deconcentration and
            Decentralization Reform
PA          Procurement Agent
PBC         Planning and Budgeting Committee
PID         Project Information Database
PIM         Project Implementation Manual
PLG         Partnership for Local Governance

                                                                FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

            PFM                   Public Financial Management
            PSDD                  Project to Support Democratic Development through
                                  Decentralization and Deconcentration
            PST                   Program Support Team

            QBS                   Quality Based Selection
            QCBS                  Quality and Cost Based Selection
            RGC                   Royal Government o f Cambodia
            RILGP                 Rural Investment and Local GovernanceProject
            SIDA                  SwedishInternational Development Agency
            S I L                 Specific Investment Loan
            SOE                   Statement o f Expenditures
            sss                   Single-Source Selection
            STFS                  Seila Task Force Secretariat
            TOR                   Terms o fReference
            TSU                   Technical Support Unit
            UNDP                  UnitedNations Development Programme




                                             Vice President: James Adams
                                 Country Manager/Director:    IanPorter
                                            Sector Director:  Christian Delvoie
                            Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Louise Scura


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                               KINGDOMOF CAMBODIA

                            RURALINVESTMENTAND LOCAL GOVERNANCE


                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                        Page

           Project Paper Data Sheet...................................................................     1

           I.     Introduction.......................................................................... 2

           I1.    Background and Rationale for Additional Financing..........................              2

           I11.   ProposedChanges..................................................................        5

           IV .    Consistency with Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) ........................             8

           V .     Appraisal of Scaled-up Project Activities.......................................        8

           VI.     Expected Outcomes     ...............................................................  -11

           VI1.    Benefits, Risks andMitigation      ...................................................  11

           VI11. Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing..............-13

           Annex 1: Procurement Arrangements..................................................            -14

           Annex 2: Outcome Indicators.............................................................        21

           Annex 3: Good Governance Framework................................................              24




This document has arestricteddistribution and maybe usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance o ftheir official duties
Itcontents maynot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization        .


                            PROJECTPAPER    DATA  SHEET



ProjectName:Rural Investment and            DelvoieRahulRaturi
Local Governance                            CountryDirector:IanC. Porter

Borrower:Kingdomo f Cambodia
Responsibleagency: National Committee for Management o fDecentralizationand
DeconcentrationReform (NCDD Program Support Team)
                                             - -
Revisedestimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
                           P




Bank policies?
                                                                       oYes  oNo

Revisedprojectdevelopmentobjectives/outcomes[Ifapplicable]
Project development objective i s unchanged.



Does the scaled-up or restructuredprojecttrigger any new safeguardpolicies?N o

Ifso. clickhereto indicatewhichone(s) /selection box like theone in thenew ISRl
                              For AdditionalFinancing
[ ] Loan   [ 3 Credit [XIGrant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       TotalBankfinancing(US$m.):36.25 million
       Proposedterms: IDA Grant
                                FinancingPlan(US$m.)
                  Source                       Local     1  Foreign    I    Total
Borrower                                    60.33          14.40        74.73
IDA Grant                                   21.17          15.08        36.25
Projectto SupportDemocratic                 13.21          4.01         17.22
DevelopmentthroughDecentralization
andDeconcentration(UNDP, DFID,
SIDA)
Total                                       94.71          33.49        128.21




                                           1

A. Introduction

 1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional IDA Grant in an amount o f USD 36.25 million equivalent to the Kingdom o f
Cambodia for the Rural Investment and Local Governance Project (PO711461P105715)
(Credit No. 3747-KH).

2.      The proposed additional Grant would help finance the costs associated with
scaled-up activities to enhance the impact o f this well-performing Project. No major
changes are proposed to the design or implementation arrangements o f the ongoing
Project.   The additional Grant would support expanding the project area from 15
provinces to 23 provinces, provide continuing financing for an additional three years to
the intergovernmental fiscal transfer, the Commune/Sangkat Fund, and facilitate an
accelerated increase inthe amount o f the overall intergovernmental fiscal transfer and the
related commune allocations. The Additional Financing will also provide assistance in
developing the      forward   looking   national program       for  decentralization and
deconcentration and thus help provide a better foundation for coordinated donor support
infuture.

3.      Partnership Arrangements. The RILGP-associated planning activities, technical
assistance and capacity building at the national, provincial and commune levels are co-
financed in parallel by the Royal Government o f Cambodia domestic resources and by
the Project to Support Democratic Development through Decentralization and
Deconcentration (PSDD), co-financedby DFID, Sida andUNDP.

B. BackgroundandRationalefor Additional Financing

4.      Original Project Design. RILGP was approved by the Board on April 22, 2003,
the Development Credit Agreement was signed on June 18, 2003 for an amount o f SDR
16.1 million (US$ 22 million equivalent), and the project became effective on September
16,2003.

5.      The development objectives o f RILGP are to assist rural development and poverty
reduction efforts through supporting provision o f priority public goods and infrastructure
at the commune level, as well as promoting good local governance through support o f
decentralized and deconcentrated participatory local governance systems at the commune
and provincial levels. While a Specific Investment Loan, RILGP does not use project-
specific arrangements. Rather, the project institutional arrangements, procedures, and
funds flow are integrated into government structures and systems. This approach was
employed to build capacity directly within government institutions, strengthen actual
government structures and systems, and thus create a strong basis for sustainability and
scaling-up o f development impacts. The project area includes 15 provinces out o f the
country's 24 provinces, but the structures and systems employed and strengthened under
the project are used throughout the country.
6.     RILGP has provided support for key policy studies to inform the ongoing
decentralization and deconcentration reforms, as well as for auditing, monitoring and



                                            2

evaluating fiduciary, safeguards, process and technical aspects o f project implementation.
Inaddition, RILGP has provided funding for offices, related equipment and vehicles for
some Provincial Rural Development Committees in RILGP-supported provinces.
However, most o f the ongoing Credit (SDR 14.8 million out o f SDR 16.1 million) is
allocated to commune-level investments, where RILGP has supported strengthening the
newly decentralized development process at the commune level and provided grants for
commune development priorities determined through the local planning process, which to
date have been principally rural infrastructure -rural roads, small-scale irrigation, rural
water supply and school buildings. RILGP funds flow to the commune level through the
intergovernmental fiscal transfer, the Cornmune/Sangkat (US) Fund, which i s the main
source o f development financing at the commune level. Through the C/S Fund, every
commune/sangkat in the country receives a formula-based allocation, which factors in
local population and poverty levels, to finance commune development priorities.

7.      Quality at Entry. A Q A G Quality-At-Entry Review, conducted in July 2003,
found the project approach to be highly relevant and rated the strategic relevance and
approach Highly Satisfactory, and overall quality Satisfactory. InApril 2004, the Project
was awarded the Bank's Green Award for innovative mainstreaming o f the Bank's
environment and social safeguard requirementsinto local-level government systems.

8.      Project Performance to Date. Since Effectiveness, progress towards achieving the
project development      objective has been satisfactory.        Project implementation
performance to date has been generally satisfactory, and has demonstrated progress on
key local governance outcomes. The PSWISR rating for Development Objective and
Implementation Progress are as follows.

          PSWISRDate              DORating               IPRating
          12/23/2003              Satisfactory           Satisfactory
          6/25/2004               Satisfactory           Satisfactory
          12/20/2004              Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory
          6/23/2005               Satisfactory           Satisfactory
          5/30/2006               Satisfactory           Satisfactory

a.      Reliability and Timeliness of Cash Releases to the Commune/Sangkat Fund.
Early problems o f cash flow management have been largely overcome and cash releases
for the C/S Fund in the subsequent years o f 2004, 2005 and 2006 proceeded per the
agreed schedule o f releases. The C/S Fund has become one o f the most efficient and
transparent components o f the national budget while being supported by RILGP.

b.      Financial Management.       RILGP is one o f four IDA-financed projects in
Cambodia that underwent a Fiduciary Review (FR) during July-October, 2004, but was
not part o f the subsequent INT investigation. The FR highlighted high fiduciary risks for
C/S Fund due to weaknesses in government financial management system, similar to
findings o f the financial management assessment conducted during project preparation,
but further found that the key financial management issues had been closely monitored
byBank supervisionmissions, and that appropriate remedial actions hadbeentaken. The



                                             3

project quarterly financial management reports have been submitted in a timely manner
and have been found to be in good order The 2005 external audit report' had a qualified
opinion due to weak internals controls for collection o f local contributions from villagers.
However, this issue does not relate directly to financial management o f RILGP funds,
since reimbursements for sub-project grants are at 100% o f amounts disbursed from the
C/S Fund, which i s net o f a local contribution, if any. Nonetheless, it i s an important
local governance issue, and the Bank team i s working with government to clarify and
strengthen the procedures for management o f local contributions already in place in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM)2, as well as to improve compliance with these
procedures.

c.        Procurement. The first year o f RILGP implementation, 2003, was the first year
for most communes to use competitive bidding procedures. Procurement post reviews
for 2003 and 2004 contracts, as well as the Fiduciary Review in2004, revealed some lack
o f clarity with the procurement procedures and related problems in implernentati~n.~
These reviews prompted, in early 2005, revision to the C/S Procurement Guidelines and
the related sections o f the PIM and supplementary training on the revised procedures.
The procurement post review for 2005 contracts demonstrated that the procedural
revisions and supplementary training improved procurement implernentati~n.~

d.        Safeguards.         Implementation o f environmental and social safeguards also has
been generally satisfactory.

e.       Disbursement from the Credit. Disbursements are generally on track with SDR
13.53 million o f the SDR 16.10 million having been disbursedwith about 6 months to the
current project closing o f December 31, 2007, and un-disbursed Credit balances are
expected to be fully disbursed by then.

9.        Rationale for Additional Financing. Additional Financing is being sought to
scale-up and enhance the development impact o f the project activities. RILGP has been
the main source o f development financing for the Commune/Sangkat Fundfor years 2003
through 2006, accounting for about 46% of the development component o f the C/S Fund
in 2006. The national budget allocation to the C/S Fund is set by sub decree which
covers three years. For 2005 through 2007,2.52 to 2.56%5 o f domestic recurrent revenue
were allocated each year, amounting to $14.32 million in 2005, $16.98 million in 2006,
and $21.34 million in 2007, for both administration and development. While increasing


1The 2005 RILG ProjectAudit was done as aconsolidated audit coveringRILG, PLG, IFAD/RPRP andDaniddCCD-
NREMprojects.
'C/S  Chief is responsible to report to the communitythe total amount collectedandthe date on which it was deposited
into the C/S Account at ProvincialNational Bank of Cambodia. This information,together with alist ofhouseholds
contributingandthe amount contributed,must be postedon the C/S Council notice board.
 Ofthe 2067 contractsreimbursedfor 2003 and2004, post reviewwas conductedon 178 (8.6%) and of these
misprocurementfor proceduralmistakeswas declaredon 13 contracts with a total value of about $86,000.
 For2005, ofthe 1,230 contracts reimbursed, 100 contracts(8.1%)were post reviewed. Ofthese, misprocurement for
proceduralmistakeswas declared for only 2 contractswith atotal value of about $16,000. The post review clearly
indicatedthat the procurement performancehad substantiallyimprovedcomparedto previousyears.
 Per the sub-decree, the 2007 allocationwas to be 2.56%, but the actual allocationamountedto 2.60% due to a
supplementalallocationto the administrativecomponentto cover salaries increasesfor the village authorities.


                                                          4

each year, the average commune allocations from the C/S Fund for development are still
very small, averaging about $8,500 per commune in2007, and needto be increased ifthe
commune councils are to be relevant to their constituents. The sub decree to set the
national budget allocation to the C/S Fund for the period 2008-2010 is currently under
discussion and expected to be finalized by end-July 2007. Therefore, there i s narrow
window o f opportunity to influence the cap rates for budget allocation inthe sub decree.
Extension and scaling-up o f RILGP support to the C/S Fund through RILGP Additional
Financing would be an effective way to respond to the immediate opportunity to increase
the commune allocations from the C/S Fundand enhance development impact.

10.    Government will proceed with the formulation o f the National Program for Sub-
national Democratic Development, which would define the implementation details for the
National Strategic Framework on Decentralization and Deconcentration and provide a
foundation for harmonizing future donor support to decentralization and deconcentration.
Government also has requested support for work on the fiscal decentralization reform
targets agreed but not yet financed under the Public Financial Management Reform
Program. Extension and scaling-up o f RILGP policy reform support through RILGP
Additional Financing would be an effective way to respond to the immediate opportunity
to advance the work inthese key areas o f decentralization and deconcentration policy and
enhance development impact.

C. ProposedChanges

11.    The activities proposed to be funded with the Additional Financing are consistent
with the original project objectives and components. Additional Financing inthe form o f
a $36.25 million equivalent IDA Grant would be used to scale-up and enhance the
development impact o f the following project components and activities:

a. Local Planning and Investment ($28.45 million):
       i. Provisionofsupporttothedecentralizedplanningprocessatthecommune
       level, through development o f five year Commune/Sangkat Development Plans,
       three year rolling Commune/Sangkat Investment Programs and annual commune
       budgets for implementing said plans.
       ..
       11.     Provision o f Sub-project Grants for small-scale rural infrastructure
       investment projects at the commune level in twenty-three (23) Project Provinces
       identified and prioritized through the participatory local planning process.

b. Policy Support and Project Management: ($ 7.80 million):
       i. StrengtheningoftheBorrower'sinstitutionsatalllevelstoenablethemto
       implement, supervise, monitor and evaluate the Project and achieve its objectives,
       through provision o f capacity building, technical assistance, logistical and
       operational support.

       ii. Carrying out a Program for support of (a) policy reform               including: (i)
       undertaking strategic studies on decentralization and deconcentration, (ii)
                                                                                formulating the
       national program on decentralization and deconcentration reform, and (iii)formulating


                                               5

        and piloting fiscal decentralization reforms; and (b) project management, including: (i)
        undertaking assessments of aspects of Commune/Sangkat Fund related to planning,
        budgeting, and       implementation, (ii)conducting surveys on monitoring the socio-
        economic impacts of the Sub-projects, (iii)   monitoring procurementsupport to respective
        Commune Councils in the Project Provinces, (iv) conducting the mid-term and final
        Project evaluations, (v) conducting annual external audits of the Project accounts, (vi)
        conductingprocess audits of planning and implementation,(vi) conductingnational-level
        workshops onperiodic reviews of Project activities; (vii) constructing an office building
        for the NCDD Program Support Team, (viii) rehabilitating and constructing respective
        PRDC Executive Committee's office buildings in selected Project Provinces, and (ix)
        equipping NCDD Program Support Team, Ministry of Economy and Finance, PRDC
        Executive Committees and Provincial Treasuries in selected Project Provinces with
        office equipment, furniture andmotor vehicles.

12.        More specifically, under the Local Planning and Investment Component,
Additional Financing will (i)        provide continued financing to the C/S Fund for 2007 at the
present level and within the current 15 provinces; (ii) the C/S Fund 2008 and 2009,
                                                                for
scale-up the project area from the current 15 provinces6 to 23 provinces7 (excluding
Phnom Penh and urbanized areas in other provinces); and (iii)                support an increase in
average development component allocations from the current approximately $8,500 per
commune in2007 to approximately $15,000 per commune in2010.

13.        Under the Policy Support and Project Management Component, Additional
Financing would provide policy reform support as well as project management support.
In terms o f policy reform support, RILGP Additional IDA Grant will continue to
contribute to the broader multi-donor support to the ongoing study, formulation,
evaluation and strengthening              o f the Royal Government's           policy,      legal and
implementation program framework for decentralization and deconcentration. While the
complete scope o f RILGP Additional Financing support in this area will be determined
duringimplementation inconsultation and coordination o f NCDD and other donors, two
priority activities to be financed out o f the Additional IDA Grant, under TOR acceptable
to IDA, are: (a) formulation o f the National Program for Sub-National Democratic
Development, and (b) formulation andpiloting o f fiscal decentralizationreforms.

14.        Interms ofproiect management support, the Additional IDA Grant will support
activities focused on monitoring and evaluating the efficiency, transparency and
accountability o f the commune governance systems, as well as the efficiency, technical
quality and impact o f investments financed through the C/S Fund. These will include,
inter alia, (a) technical, process, and financial audits, (b) citizens engagement inthe C/S
budget cycle; (c) studies to assess various operational aspects o f the C/S Fund, and (d)
monitoring and evaluation o f socio-economic impacts o f sub-projects and mid-term and

                                   ~~




  The RILGP project area comprised sevenprovinces inyear 1o fproject implementation, 11inyear 2, and
15 from year 3 onwards. The 15 RILGP provinces are: Battambang, Banteay Meanchey, Kompong Cham,
Kompong Chhnang, Kompong Speu ,Kratie, Otdar Meanchey, Pailin, Pursat, Prey Veng, Prey Vihear,
Ratanakiri, Siem Reap, Svay Rieng, Takeo.However, inview o f the significant amount o f other donor
hnding targeted inRatanakiri Province, RGC elected to focus on the remaining 14provinces.
7The eight additional provinces include: Kompong Thom, Kampot, Kandal, Kok Kong, Kep, Mondulkiri,
Sihanoukville, and Stung Treng.


                                                   6

final evaluations o f the project.     The Additional IDA Grant will also support (e)
constructinghepairing o fNCDDS and sub-national offices, (f) office equipment, furniture
and vehicles.

15.        The Additional IDA Grant will not finance government salaries or salary
supplements, nor be the key source o f technical assistance for operations or incremental
operating costs.      Parallel co-financing by PSDD (2007-2009) will complement the
Additional Grant through provision o f core technical advisory staff, both international
and national, located at the national and provincial levels, as well as support for
incremental operating costs. The Additional Grant includes provisional funding to cover
core technical advisory staff and incremental operating costs for 2010, which are not
covered by another source. Also, the Additional Grant could potentially support a Merit-
Based Pay Initiative, if such an approved scheme i s introduced during the Project and
financing could be reallocated for this purpose.

16.      Institutional Arrangements.   The institutional arrangements for the project
remain unchanged at the national and sub-national levels.

17.      Proiect Costs and Financing; Plan.

I           Component            IIndicative CostsI  % of   I Bank FinancingI YOof Bank  I
                                      (US%m)         Total       (US%)        Financing
 1. Local Planning and Investment      65.53         51.1%       28.45          78.5%
 2. Policy Support and Project
 Management                            62.76         48.9%         7.80         21.5%
 Total                                128.21      II 100.0% II   36.25          100.0%




18.     Financial Management. Activities funded throughthe Additional Financing will
be subject to the same arrangements for financial management and disbursement
arrangements as for the original Credit. However, to support the Additional Grant, the
following modifications to the arrangements are needed:

a.      Designated Account. A separate designated account will be established to deposit
the Additional Grant proceeds separately from the Credit proceeds.


                                               7

b.       Project Accounting System and Financial Management Reports. The Peachtree
project accounting system will be modified to account for the Additional Grant as a new
source o f funds, as well as to include the additional eight provinces, so that the quarterly
and annual financial reports can be produced properly.

 19.     Procurement. Procurement arrangements for the RILGP Credit are governed by
Bankprocurement guidelines, which have since beenrevised. Procurement arrangements
for the Additional Grant, therefore, will be governed by the current version o f the Bank
procurement guidelines. The details o f the procurement arrangements for the Additional
Grant are provided inAnnex 1.

20.      Closing Date. The closing date will be extended for three years to December 31,
2010, bringingthe total duration to 7 years.

D. Consistency with CountryAssistance Strategy

21.      The proposed Additional Financing is consistent with the current CAS, which
recognizes that deconcentration and decentralization have the potential to improve local
governance and reduce corruption and waste by increasing the level o f meaningful
participation and thereby amplifying the voice o f local communities in decisions that
affect their lives; increasing transparency in all aspects o f government activities, enabling
local communities to better monitor government performance; and shortening the chain
o f accountability from local communities to their governments.         Primary investment
support to decentralization under the current CAS is through the ongoing RILGP and a
proposed follow-on SIL, RILGP-11. RILGP-I1 i s envisaged by Government to include
financing for engagement at the district level as well as the commune level, and therefore
will need to be designed within the new institutional framework for decentralization and
deconcentration to be established under the upcoming Organic Law on decentralization
and deconcentration. Development o f the Organic Law i s progressing more slowly than
originally anticipated, so, inconsultation with Government, a decision was taken to defer
RILGP-I1to FY09 to allow more time for progress on the Organic Law and definingthe
formal arrangements to be introduced at the district level.          The RILGP Additional
Financing proposes to provide assistance for developing the forward looking national
program for decentralization and deconcentration and thus help provide a better
foundation for coordinated donor support infuture.

E. Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities

22.      Financial Analysis.     The proposed additional IDA Grant o f $36.25 million
equivalent is almost 165% o f the original RILGP Credit o f $22 million equivalent. The
increase, while substantial, i s in line with the objective to scale-up the commune-level
support and the development impacts o f RILGP. Importantly, the Additional Financing
will allow an accelerated scale-up o f the overall intergovernmental fiscal transfer, which
i s a target in the CAS, as well as an increase in the average commune allocations. The
amount o f the increase balances the needs o f the communes with the capacity o f the
communes to manage increased levels o f funding, as well as take into account the ability


                                              8

o f the central government to finance sustainably the increased level o f intergovernmental
transfer inthe future. With the proposed Additional Financing, the average development
allocations would be increased from the current $8,500 to about $15,000 per commune
per year by 2010. While this i s a substantial increase in average development allocation,
it is within the absorptive capacity o fthe communes and is also a reasonable increment in
the intergovernmental fiscal transfer. The proposed cap rates discussed with Government
for the C/S Fund for 2008, 2009, and 2010 are 2.70, 2.75 and 2.80 respectively o f
recurrent revenues, and within this the proposed Additional Financing would support
about 50 to 55% o f the C/S Funddevelopment component allocation.

23.      Economic Analysis. The appraisal noted that about 70% o f RILGP sub-projects
by value have been in the rural roads sector and a further 20% in the small-scale
irrigation sector. The appraisal concluded that there have been several in-depth studies o f
the benefits and costs of C/S Fund sub-projects supported through RILGP and by others,
and these studies provide sufficient evidence that, in general, the C/S Fund sub-projects
generate an acceptable rate o f return. Most estimates o f Economic Internal Rates o f
Return (EIRR) for commune rural roads are inthe range 25%-40%, although returns are
significantly reduced, and may fall to unacceptable levels, if road maintenance is not
carried out in a timely and efficient manner. Successful small-scale irrigation investments
also typically have EIRR above 20%. However, impact studies o f C/S Fund small-scale
irrigation projects have shown that some o f these projects fail to achieve their objectives
due mainly to problems with technical capacity for technical study and design. Estimated
EIRR for investments in rural water supply sub-projects are in the range 10% - 15%,
conventionally regarded as marginally acceptable. However, these estimates are
considered lower-bound estimates as they measured only benefits resulting from the
reduced implicit cost o f water - i.e. mainly time saved in trips between house and well -
and did not take into account the additional expected health benefits resulting from
improved water quality. The overall benefits o f rural water supply sub-projects are
expected to comfortably exceed the costs. As with roads, the estimated rate o f return for
water supply projects i s sensitive to the assumption that the wells are adequately
maintained.

24.     Technical Aspects. Technical assessments o f C/S Fund sub-projects conducted
under RILGP and by others have found, and the appraisal concurred, that the technical
quality o f C/S sub-projects i s generally acceptable.       However, there i s a need to
strengthen some key aspects o f sub-project design, particularly technical design o f
irrigation sub-projects, and maintenance o f all infrastructure. More specifically, all
evaluations o f the technical quality o f the sub-projects have concluded that the quality o f
design and construction o f rural roads and road structures i s broadly acceptable, although
there are areas where improvements could be made, particularly in the quality o f
construction supervision.    Nonetheless, there are some concerns over the long-term
sustainability and cost-effectiveness o f the laterite paving when used in some settings.
There is also concern over the inadequate maintenance o fthe completed roads. Studies o f
the CIS Fund irrigation outputs have concluded that there are technical quality issues
arising principally from lack o f capacity for survey and design o f these relatively more
technically complex projects.       Appropriate measures to address these weaknesses,
including strengthened arrangements for maintenance planning, are being introduced


                                               9

through the ongoing revisions to the Project Implementation Manual and Technical
Manual supported under the RILGP Credit. In addition, an International Infrastructure
Advisor and a National Irrigation Engineer will be hired from the proceeds o f the
Additional Financing to support the existing team o f provincial infrastructure advisors
and further build the technical capacity o f the provincial Technical Support Units to
support sub-project design, appraisal and construction supervision.

25.    Fiduciary Aspects.

a.     Procurement. The appraisal concluded, based on a capacity assessment, that
adequate procurement capacity exists in the national level implementing agency. The
appraisal mission also assessed the procurement capacity in a sample o f provinces
proposed for expansion under the Additional Financing in2008, and found their capacity
on par with that o f the current RILGP provinces. Details o f the procurement capacity
assessment are provided inAnnex 1.

b.     Financial Management. The appraisal concluded that the financial management
and disbursement arrangements for the original RILGP Credit are equally applicable to,
and are adequate to handle the financial transactions o f the Additional Financing. Only
minor modifications will be needed, including a separate designated account for the
Additional Financing grant, and revisions to the project accounting system to include the
new source o f grant funds and the 8 additional provinces. The appraisal mission visited a
sample o f provinces in which RILGP Additional Financing will expand in 2008 and
confirmed that they use the same Commune/Sangkat accounting structures and system
employed in RILGP provinces.         The appraisal mission also assessed the financial
management capacity in the sample o f expansion provinces and found their capacity on
par with that o fthe current RILGPprovinces.

26.    Environmental and Social Safeguards. The proposed Additional Financing will
not raise the environmental safeguards category, nor will it trigger new safeguards
policies. The social and environmental safeguards measures under the project were
agreed during preparation o f the original RILGP Credit,            incorporated in the
Commune/Sangkat Fund Project Implementation Manual, and apply to the entire C/S
Fund, not just IDA-financed portion and not just inthe provinces in the original RILGP
project area.    During implementation the compliance with environmental and social
safeguards provisions has been satisfactory. Nonetheless, the appraisal noted that the
capacity for effective implementation of environmental and social safeguards o f the C/S
Councils and Provincial Rural Development Committees (PRDCs) in the proposed new
provinces may not be as high as in those supported through the RILGP Credit. A review
has been commissioned under the RILGP Credit to: (a) evaluate implementation o f the
social and environmental safeguard guidelines, and in doing so to acquire baseline
information for      systematic  monitoring in the following years;         (b) develop
recommendations for improvements to the guidelines; and (c) develop and deliver a
course o f training to enhance the environmental impact awareness o f concerned officials.
In addition, to ensure continued good implementation, the national consultant engaged




                                            10

under the RILGP Credit to advise NCDD on implementation o f the agreed safeguards
measures will continue to be supported out o fthe Additional Financing grant.

27.     Compliance with Other Bank Policies. The proposed Additional Financing will
not involve any exceptions to Bankpolicies.

F. ExpectedOutcomes

28.     Expected Project Outcomes. The development objectives o f RILGP are to assist
the Recipient in its rural development and poverty reduction efforts through supporting
provision o f priority public goods and infrastructure at the commune level, as well as
promoting good local governance through support o f decentralized and deconcentrated
participatory local governance systems at the commune and provincial levels.         The
project development objectives remain unchanged. The outcome targets and indicators
have been adjusted to reflect the increased geographic scope and scale, and enhanced
governance outcomes o f the additional support to the C/S Fund, as well as to reflect
better the expected outcomes associated with the additional policy development support.
The revised indicators are provided inAnnex 2.

G. Benefits,Risks andMitigation

29.     The proposed Additional Financing will scale-up the geographical coverage from
15 to 23 provinces -increasing the commune coverage by 45% (from 1,014 to 1,473
communes) and i s expected to almost double the total numbers o f sub-projects financed-
and will enhance overall decentralization and deconcentration process, particularly in
scaling-up the overall intergovernmental fiscal transfer, increasing average commune
allocations, formulating sub-national democratic and development (SNDD) program, and
formulating and implementing fiscal decentralization reforms.       However, there are
several risks which will need to be managed to ensure that the project development
objective i s attained.

30.     Policy-related risks. Government may proceed slowly and cautiously with the
formulation o f the National Program for SNDD and with the formulation and piloting o f
Fiscal Decentralization reforms, as they have with the drafting o f the Organic Law on
decentralization and deconcentration.     However, the risk to the project development
objectives o f this is low. The riskwill be mitigatedby strong engagement with the Public
Financial Management Reform Committee and working with NCDD/MOI and other
donors through the Technical Working Group on Decentralizationand Deconcentration.

31.     Macro-economic and financial risks.

a) Government may decide on cap rates lower than those proposed for the allocations
    from the national budget to the C/S Fundto be established for the coming three years
    under the upcoming sub-decree.       The related risk to achievement o f the project
    development objective i s moderate.      The risk has been mitigated by high-level
    technical discussions and confirmation o f Government's agreement to the proposed
    cap rates at negotiations.


                                             11

b) The C/S Fund credit and cash releases may not continue to be reliable, predictable
    and timely, and budget formulation and execution may continue to be slow. The
    related risks of this are low. The Bank's task team has been working closely with
    MOI and MEF who successfully improved the timeliness o f the C/S Fund transfers
    duringthe initial implementation o f RILGP. Inaddition, RILGP is financing a study
    on budget formulation and execution in 2007 that will be followed-up in 2009
    utilizing the proceeds o f the proposed Additional Financing. It was agreed with M O I
    andMEFthat the bottlenecks identified inthe studywill be addressed.

c) Parallel financing from PSDD donors and RGC counterpart funds may be inadequate
    or not disbursed in timely manner.. To mitigate this risk, the cross-default in the
    original RILGP DCA, remains in effect, providing appropriate remedies, including
    suspension, which could be usedinsuch cases.

32.     Technical. The quality o f sub-projects may be sub-standard. To mitigate this
risk, it was agreed with that an additional International Infrastructure Advisor and a
National Irrigation Engineer will be hired throughout the duration o f the project to
strengthen the technical capacity insub-project appraisal and construction supervision.

33.     Fiduciary.    The overall project risks for project procurement and financial
management are rated as "high". The high risk rating i s mainly due to the perceived
fiduciary risk in Cambodia. In addition, although the systems and procedures applied in
the current RILGP provinces have also been applied in the other provinces, and FM and
Procurement assessments conducted during appraisal show that the capacity in the
sample provinces i s relatively on par with the original RILGP provinces, it is possible
that the capacity i s not as high as inthe original provinces which have received intensive
supervision by the Bank team. These risks will be mitigated by (i)    applying to national-
level procurement the guidance in the RGC's Procurement Manual for Externally
Financed Projects; (ii)  implementing o f the agreed Good Governance Framework, which
includes    substantive    procurement-related actions      for  increasing  transparency,
accountability and competition; (iii)   continuing the improvement o f the Guidelines for
Commune/Sangkat Procurement and Project Implementation Manual, which are
applicable for the Commune/Sangkat Fund - sub-projects, and provide the details for
procurement under the Bank's Community Participation method, to further increase
competition and transparency; and (iv) undertake an additional capacity buildingprogram
will be provided to the new provinces prior to implementation o f sub-project investment
in2008. Inaddition to the above, andunless otherwise agreed bythe RGC and the IDA,
a Procurement Agent will be engaged to carry-out the national-level procurement on
behalfo fNCDD.

34.     Annex 3 contains the Good Governance Framework, outlining supplementary
measures to enhance project governance under RILGP Additional Financing.




                                              12

H. FinancialTerms andConditionsfor TheAdditionalFinancing

35.    The originalRILGP is financedthrough an IDA Credit. Inline with the country
financingarrangementscurrentlyinplacefor Cambodia, the AdditionalFinancingwill be
an IDA Grant.




                                       13

Annex 1
                              ProcurementArrangements

A. General
Procurement for the proposed-additional financing to RILGP would be carried out in
accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" dated May 2004, andrevised October 2006; and"Guidelines: Selectionand
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004 and revised
October 2006; and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The general
descriptions o f various items under different expenditure category are described below.
For each contract to be financed by the IDA Grant, the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame
are agreed between the Recipient andthe Bank project team inthe Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity. Guidance for
implementing the procurement provisions i s provided in the Procurement Manual
specified inthe Kingdom o f Cambodia's Sub-Decree No. 14 dated February26,2007 on
Promulgating o f the Standard Procedures for Implementing the World Bank and the
AsianDevelopment Bank Assisted Projects.
Procurement of Goods: Goods, including motorcycles, estimated to cost more than
equivalent $100,000 per contract shall be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) following ICB procedures in accordance with the provision o f Section I1
o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents
for Goods will be used for procurement under ICB method. Goods estimated to cost less
than equivalent $100,000 per contract may be procured through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedure inaccordance with the provision s o f paragraph 3.3 and 3.4 o f
the Bank Guidelines and the N C B annex to be provided in the Legal Agreement. Goods
estimated to cost less than equivalent $20,000 per contract may be procured through
Shopping procedure in accordance with paragraph 3.5 o f the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. Vehicles, other than motorcycles, estimated to cost less than $200,000 per
contract and not exceeding $325,000 in aggregate, may be procured from the United
Nations Inter-Agency Procurement Office inaccordance with the provisions o fparagraph
3.9 o f the Guidelines.
Procurement of Works: Works estimated to cost more than equivalent $300,000 per
contract shall be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following
ICB procedures inaccordance with the provision o f Section I1o f the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. The Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents Procurement o f Works -
Smaller Contracts will be used for procurement under ICB method. Works estimated to
cost less than equivalent $300,000 per contract shall be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedure in accordance with the provision s o f paragraph
3.3 and 3.4 o f the Bank Guidelines and the N C B annex to be provided in the Legal
Agreement. Works estimated to cost less than equivalent $40,000 per contract may be
procured through Shopping procedure in accordance with paragraph 3.5 o f the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.




                                           14

Selection of Consultants: Consultant services would be procured through Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS) or Quality Based Selection (QBS). If applicable, Selection
Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQS) may be used for consulting services
estimated to cost less than $50,000. Single Source Selection (SSS), where justified and
subject to IDA'Sprior agreement, may be used for consultant services that meet the
requirements o f paragraphs 3.9 and 3.10 o f the Consultant Guidelines. If warranted,
short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the
provisions o f paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Individual consultants may be
selected in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.1-5.4 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.
CommunityParticipation:Goods andworks under Sub-project Grant shall beprocured
inaccordance with communityparticipationprocedures acceptable to the Bankas set
forth inthe Project Implementation Manual, including the Recipient's Prakas inthe
Commune/Sangkat Procurement Guidelines.
Workshops: Workshops shall be disbursed on the basis o fStatement o fExpenditures.
Incremental Operating Costs: Incremental operating cost to support operations o f
NCDD and Provincial Technical Assistance will be utilized using government practices
and regulations inaccordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.


B. Assessment of APencY's CaDacityto ImplementProcurement

Since the first year o f RILGP implementation in 2003 until December 2006, the Seila
Task Force Secretariat (STFS) was fully responsible for national-level project
procurement. N o substantial issue was found during post review o f the national - level
procurement. At the commune-level' post reviews o f early implementation revealed
procedural deviations and mistakes by a few communes which resulted in declaration o f
misprocurement on a small number o f contracts. These mistakes were seen to be largely
the result o f some unclear provisions in the C/S Fund Procurement Guidelines and the
PIM which led to discretionary application. The Guidelines and PIM have since been
revised to clarify related procedures, and additional training has been undertaken to
reduce the likelihood o f recurrence o f the similar mistakes. Subsequent post reviews
have shown significant improvement o f procurement implementation following the
revisions to the Guidelines and PIM, and supplemental training. Further improvements in
the Guidelines and PIM will be made based on lessons-learned from post reviews with a
view to further enhance competition and transparency.

The STFS mandate expired December 31 2006, and the role and responsibilities o f STFS
were assumed by the National Committee for the Management o f Decentralization and
Deconcentration Reforms (NCDD).              The Bank approved the related change in
implementing arrangements for RILGP in February 2007.            The change will not impact
on the implementation o f national-level project procurement, as staff capacity has been
maintained by moving the Project Director, procurement and financial management staff
from STFS to NCDD Secretariat. Moreover, the Procurement Agent (PA) which will be
hiredby the MEFwill handleprocurement under national-level once the PA is on board.


                                              15

For the Commune/Sangkat procurement, the mission visited 2 provinces (Kampong
Thom and Steng Treng) which were not in the original 14 provinces under RILGP, but
are expected to be included under RILGP Additional Financing. Since the Guidelines for
Commune/Sangkat Procurement and the Project Implementation Manual have been used
for all Commune/Sangkat Fundprocurement in all provinces in the country irrespective
o f sources o f financing, the procurement arrangements and processes followed inthe two
potential expansion provinces were found similar to those in the current RILGP
provinces. The appraisal confirmed that arrangements for technical assistance to the
communes provided by the Technical Support Unit (TSU) will maintained as in the
RILGP provinces, and the technical assistance and capacity building at the national,
provincial and commune levels are co-financed in parallel by Project to Support
Democratic Development through Decentralization and Deconcentrtation (PSDD) which
is the successor o f Partnership for Local Governance (PLG), funded by trust funds
administered by the UNDP. The appraisal concludes that adequate procurement capacity
exists for all provinces under RILGP-Additional Financing.

Although there i s sufficient procurement capacity and related support and assistance for
procurement, the overall project risk for project procurement i s rated as "high". The high
risk rating is mainly due to the perceived country fiduciary risk in Cambodia. However,
the risk will be mitigated by: (i)  applying to national-level procurement the guidance in
the RGC's Procurement Manual for Externally Financed Projects; (ii)      implementing the
agreed Good Governance Framework, which includes substantive procurement-related
actions for increasing transparency, accountability and competition; and (iii)  continuing
the improvement o f the Guidelines for Commune/Sangkat Procurement and Project
Implementation Manual which are applicable for the Commune/Sangkat Fund - Sub-
project Grants, and provide the details for procurement under the Bank's Community
Participationmethod, for further increasing o f competition and transparency. Inaddition
to the above, and unless otherwise agreed by the RGC and the IDA, a Procurement Agent
will be engaged to carry-out the national-level procurement on behalf o f NCDD. Until
such time as the procurement agent i s engaged, the NCDD Program Support Team shall
procure the goods, works andconsultant services.

C. ProcurementPlan

NCDD has developed a Procurement Plan o f year 2007 - 2010 for procurement at the
national level. The procurement plan provides the list o f goods works and consultant
services which will be the basis for the procurement methods and for the basis for the
review by the Bank. The Plan has been agreed between the implementing agency and the
Project Team during Negotiations. The Procurement Plan will be available in the
Project's database and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be
updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity. The
Procurement Plan for the Commune Sub-project Grant will be available only on the
yearly cycle basis.




                                             16

D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision

Procurement supervision and post review will be conducted as part o f the regular project
supervision missions at least twice per year. Furthermore, the designated procurement
specialist would visit the Project periodically, and also other procurement staff based in
the Bank's Cambodia Office will provide additional support whenneeded.


E. Detailsof ProcurementArrangements
    1. Goods andWorks.

According to the current Procurement Plan, ICB for Works or Direct Contracting are not
foreseen.

(a) All I C B contracts for Goods and Works, the first contract each for Goods and Works
procured through NCB, the first contract each for Goods and Works through Shopping ,
and the first contract for civil works procured through Community Participation in each
participating province ineach year would be subject to Prior Review by the Bank.




                                            17

        a.Esq   25  C  *


                     I-
3            z u m      -   E           z"
 + + -F                                      I

             z 8         -   E            E
                                      E

                                       E

                                           Z0

              2 n         -   Z0




                                 3 00

2. ConsultingServices.
   (a) List of Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms and
       individual consultants.
-
Ref       Descriptionof          cost           Selection              Bank       Expected         Comments
           Assignment            ($ m)           Method               Review      Proposals
-
No.                                                                               Submission
1.    Support for Preparation     0.81             QBS                  Prior    August 2007      Recruitment
      of SNDD Program                                                                                 by PA

2.    Support for Fiscal          0.64         QBS/SSS*                 Prior    August2007       Recruitment
-     Decentralization                                                                                by PA

3.    Citizen's Engagement        0.98         QBS/SSS*                 Prior      End2007        Recruitment
      inBudgetCycle                                                                                  by PA;
                                                                                                     NGO to
                                                                                                    implement

4.    Processaudits               0.15         Selectionof              Post;     Years 2007         Multiple;
                                                Individual            >$0.05 m      to 2009       Recruitment
                                               Consultants              Prior                         by PA

5.    Technical audits            0.12         Selectionof              Post;     Years 2008         Multiple;
                                                Individual           >$0.05 m       to 2009       Recruitment
-                                              Consultants              Prior                         by PA

6.    M&E Baseline and            0.20           QCBS                   Prior     Years 2007         Multiple;
      Follow-up                                                                     to 2009       Recruitment
                                                                                                      by PA

7.    CIS Accountability          0.04         Selectionof              Post      Year 2008       Recruitment
      Board Study Follow-up                     Individual                                            by PA
                                               Consultants

8.    BudgetFormulation           0.04         Selectionof              Post      Year 2009       Recruitment
      and Execution Study                       Individual                                           by PA
-     Follow-up                                Consultants

9.    Safeguards Mechanism        0.04         Selectionof              Post      Year 2008       Recruitment
      Review Follow-up                          Individual                                           by PA
                                               Consultants

10.  Mid-termReview               0.10             QBS                  Prior     Year 2008       Recruitment
                                                                                                     by PA

11.  FutureOperational            0.20            CQS;                 Post;      Year 2008         Multiple;
      Studies                              >$0.05        QCBS        >$Oslom        to 2010       Recruitment

-                                                                      Prior                         by PA

12.  Future Policy Studies        0.20            CQS;                 Post;      Year 2008         Multiple;
                                           >$0.05        QCBS        >$Oslom        to 2010       Recruitment
                                                                       Prior                         by PA

13.  End-of-Project               0.10            QBS                  Prior      Year 2010       Recruitment
     Evaluation                                                                                      by PA
         *SelectionMethodnot yet established. If,after finalization ofthe TORS,Single Source Selection
        methodis proposedby NCDD PST, then use of this methodwould be subject tojustification being




                                                 19

(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 for firms and $50,000
    for individuals per contract, and all Single Source Selection o f consultants
    (firms and individuals) will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Not expected at the
   project appraisal. However, if the needs arise during project implementation
   and justified, short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than
    $100,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national
   consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the
   Consultant Guidelines.




                                      20

                                                                                         Annex 2

                                       OutcomeIndicators

     Hierarchyof              Key Performance               Data Collection
      Objectives                   indicators                   Strategy
Project Development      OutcomellmpactIndicators:       InformationSource:     (from Objective
Objective:                                                                      to Goal)
Contributingto rural
developmentand
poverty reduction
efforts through:

0 Provisionof priority   ERR of the sample of sub-       0 Socio-economic       Improvedquality
  infrastructureand      projects > 12%                   surveys (baselineand  of life for rural
  public goods at the                                     follow-up)            people results
  commune level: and                                       Mid-termReview       from more
                                                           (MTR) and End-of     accessible,
                                                           Project (EOP)        equitable and
                                                           Evaluation           affordable
                                                                                infrastructureand
                                                                                public goods

0 Strengtheningof        0 Knowledge,attitudes, belief   0 KABP baseline and    Economically
  decentralized            and practices(KABP)            follow-up surveys     viable and
  participatorylocal       regardinggood local                                  demand driven
  governance systems       governanceimproved by                                sub-projects have
                           EOP                                                  measurably
                                                                                positive socio-
                         0  ImprovedProcurement,         0 Bank Supervision
                            FinancialManagement(FM)                             economic impact
                           and Accounting practices      0Annual Procurement
                           adopted and consistently        Post Reviews and SOE
                           appliedfor Commune/            Audits
                           Sangkat Fund (CISF) by          MTR and
                           EOP                             Evaluation

                         0 Enhancedreporting,              MTR and EOP
                           disclosureand complaint         Evaluation
                           handling proceduresadopted
                           at commune level by EOP
Intermediate             Intermediate Indicators:        InformationSource:     (from Output to
Outcomesfrom Each                                                               Objective)
Component:
Component1. Local Planning and Investment
1.1 Commune              0 Planningguidelines reflects   0Reportof CIS Planning Systems well
Development Plan           inclusiveand participatory     Guidelinesreview      defined and
(CDP)and Commune           process by end of 2008,                              appropriate, and
Investment Plan (CIP)      which includes:(i) gender     0Revised CIS Planning  local capacities
prepared reflecting        balance village                and Budgeting         sufficient to
local prioritiesthrough    representationin the           Guidelines            efficiently and
participatory planning     Planning-Budgeting                                   effectively
arocess.                   Committee (PBC); (ii)                                implement the
                           effective community                                  project
                           participationincluding
                           women and ethnic minorities
                           in planningprocess; and (iii)
                           wide information
                           disseminationabout planning
                           process and results



                                                  21

      Hierarchy of            Key Performance              Data Collection
      Objectives                  Indicators                   Strategy

                         0Preparationof CDPl CIP         0ProcessAudit of CIS
                          follows the revised             Planning
                          guidelinesand reflects local
                          priorities in 80% of           0EOP Evaluation
                          communes by EOP
1.2 CIS Budgets          0> 50% of CIS Budget            0CommunelSangkat         CIS budget
reflects prioritiesin     prepared by ClSC and            Fund (CISF)budget       formulation and
ClPs and in place in      approved by Provincial          monitoring reports      execution is
timely manner             Governor by end of Jan and                              efficient and
                          95% by end of Febof each                                timely.
                          year by EOP

                         0> 95% of investments            ProcessAudit of CIS
                          included in C/S Budget          Planning
                          reflect priorities in ClPs
1.3 Prioritycommune      03,900 sub-projectsby end of     Project Information     CISF cash
level investments         2006 and 7,500 sub-projects     Database (PID)          releases reliable,
funded through ClSF       by EOP implementedin                                    predictableand
are implementedby         participatingcommunes          0ProcessAudit of         timely.
ClSC in accordance                                        Implementation
with agreed systems
and procedures           0> 90% of sub-projectsof        0Technical audit reports
                          satisfactorytechnical quality
                          standards                       ProcessAudit of
                                                          Implementation

                         0> 50% of the final payments    0Project Information
                          to contractorsfor sub-          Database (PID)
                          projects madewithin 12
                          months of budget approval      0ProvincialTreasury
                          contracts and 100%within        records
                          18 months

                         0> 90% of sub-projects           Reportsof Safeguard
                          conform to safeguard            mechanismreview
                          procedures
Component2. Policy Support and Project Management
2.1 National,provincial   100%of participating            Progress reports        Goods, works and
and commune               communes and sub-national                               services procured
institutionsequippedfor   support staff to receive                                in a timely
implementationof          relevant training on planning,                          manner, funds
decentralizedplanning,    implementation,procurement                              disbursed in a
financing, management     and finance systems and                                 timely manner
and monitoring and        procedureswithin first year
evaluation(M&E)of the     of implementation
project
                         0At least one visit per month   0Progress reports
                          by sub-nationaltechnical
                          support staff to commune

                         0PSTINCDDequipped with           FMRs
                          vehicles, computer sets and
                          photocopy machine by end
                          of year one

                        0 Provincial ExCom units and      FMRs
                          ProvincialTreasuries
                          equipped with vehicles,
                          computer sets, motorcycles,
                          photocopy machines,boats,
                          furniture sets and generators
                          by end of year one



                                                   22

     Hierarchyof             Key Performance               Data Collection                       J
     Objectives                  Indicators                    Strategy
                          PST and ProvincialExCom        FMRs
                          buildingsconstructed/
                          rehabilitatedby end of 2008
2.2 Sub-National          NationalSNDD program           SNDD program
Democraticand             consistentwith D&D             document
Development(SNDD)         Strategic Framework in place
program established       by end of Jan 2009
2.3 Fiscal              a Revisedsub-decree              Issued Sub-decree
decentralization          establishing C/SF allocations
strategy consistentwith   for 2008-2010 issued by late
D&D strategic             2007
framework and agreed
Public Financial          Communes receivecash           Bank Supervision
Management(PFM)           transfer equal to CISF
reform targets            allocationswithin timeframe
developed and             of agreedscheduleof
implemented               monthly cash release by
                          2005 onward
                        e Developmentof strategy to     eComrnunelSangkat
                          increasecommune own-           OSR Strategy
                          source revenues (OSRs)by
                          end-2008,regulations           Bank Supervision
                          promulgatedto facilitate
                          collectionof OSRs by end-
                          2009, and implementationor
                          strategy starting2010
Project Components/     Inputs: (budgetfor each         Project reports:     (from
Sub-components:         component)                                           Componentsto
                                                                             Outputs)

1. Local Planningand    US$65.53 millionof which IDA      FMRs               Sufficient co-
InvestmentComponent     Grant US$28.45 million           Annual Reports      financing and
                                                                             counterpartfunds
                                                        aAnnual Workplan and are available
2. PolicySupport and    US$62.76 millionof which IDA      Budget
Project Management      Grant US$7.80 million            Annual Audit
Component




                                                 23

-3 Ba,   c) 1   ..P, El 0  s  B   Y    - 3 Ba, Y1 P,
                                                 .. Ele B Y



                                                               a




      mP   3 .dG    Y  0 E: b% 9"& 0&
                                      &

Z31

-.IEga u Q ui
          VI

          YrA3 a, a,




biii -3
     cdY8



M 0

0




     .- Ebl

         4 - ai
cd Ea     a 2




                  0rCr

     i




m m




