                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001541



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-37470 IDA-H3260 TF-26423)



                                      ON A CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR16.1 MILLION (US$22 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     AND A GRANT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.8 (US$ 36.25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                             KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA

                                        FOR THE

            RURAL INVESTMENT AND LOCAL GOVERNANCE PROJECT



                                      June 15, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Southeast Asia Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2011)

                           Currency Unit = Cambodia Riel (CR)
                                    1 US$ = CR 4,043

                              FISCAL YEAR: July 1 – June 30


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF        Additional Financing (for RILGP through IDA Grant)
AWG       Accountability Working Group
AWPB      Annual Work Plan and Budget
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community Based Organization
CDD       Community Demand Driven
C/S PIM   Commune/Sangkat Project Implementation Manual
C/SF      Commune/Sangkat Fund
CDP       Commune Development Plan
CIP       Commune Investment Program
D&D       Decentralization and Deconcentration
DFID      Department for International Development (of the United Kingdom)
D/PFT     District/Provincial Facilitator Team
DIW       District Integration Workshop
EIRR      Economic Internal Return Rate
ExCom     Executive Committee (of the PRDC)
GGF       Good Governance Framework
IA        Implementing Agency
IP3       Implementation Plan for the first 3 years (of the NP-SNDD)
KABP      Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
LGI       Local Governance Index
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIS       Management Information System
MoI       Ministry of Interior
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development
MTR       Mid-Term Review
N/P AWG   National/Provincial Accountability Working Group
NCDD(S)   National Committee for Sub-National Democratic Development (Secretariat)
NCSC      National Committee for Support to the Commune Council
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
NP-SNDD   National Program for Sub-National Democratic Development
NPRS      National Poverty Reduction Strategy
NOL       No Objection Letter
PBC       Planning and Budgeting Committee (of the Commune/Sangkat Council)
PLG       Partnership for Local Governance (UNDP-DfID-SIDA joint project 2001-2005)
PRDC      Provincial Rural Development Committee
PSDD      Project to Support Democratic Development through Decentralization and Deconcentration (UNDP-DfID-
          SIDA joint project 2006-2011)
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RGC       Royal Government of Cambodia
RILGP     Rural Investment and Local Governance Project
Seila     Name of the national program (Khmer word approximating "Foundation Stone")
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
STF(S)    Seila Task Force (Secretariat)
TA        Technical Assistance
TSU/TSO   Technical Support Unit / Officer (of the ExCom)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
                Vice President: Mr. James W. Adams, EAPVP
              Country Director: Ms. Annette Dixon, EACTF
              Country Manager: Mr. Qimiao Fan, EACSF
Sustainable Development Leader: Ms. Jeeva Perumalpillai-Essex, EASTS
             ICR Team Leader: Mr. Munichan Kung, EASTS
                                                         CAMBODIA
                                  Implementation Completion and Results Report
                              Rural Investment and Local Governance Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance..................................................... 14
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 16
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 17
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders...................... 39
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 40
  Annex 10. Good Governance Framework.................................................................... 42
  MAP IBRD 38562
                                               CAMBODIA
                         Implementation Completion and Results Report
                 The Rural Investment and Local Governance Project (RILGP)

A. Basic Information
                                                                            Rural Investment and Local
Country                 Cambodia                Project Name
                                                                            Governance Project
                                                                               IDA-37470,IDA-H3260,TF-
Project ID              P071146                 Credit Number
                                                                            26423
ICR Date                June 15, 2011           ICR Type                       Core ICR
Lending Instrument      SIL                     Borrower                       The Kingdom of Cambodia
Original Total          SDR16.1 million                                        SDR39.72 million
                                                Disbursed Amount
Commitment              [US$22.0 million]                                      [US$60.37 million]
                        SDR39.9 million
Revised Amount
                       [US$58.25 million]
Environmental Category                          B
                                                The Secretariat of the National Committee for the Sub-National
Implementing Agency
                                                Democratic Development
Co-financiers and Other External                The Royal Government of Cambodia
Partners
B. Key Dates
     Process              Date                  Process            Original Date              Actual Date
Concept Review       August 30, 2001      Effectiveness          September 16, 2003 September 16, 2003
                                                                                          February 07, 2007
Appraisal            January 13, 2003     Restructuring                    -              July 26, 2007
                                                                                          June 28, 2010
                                                                                          February 6, 2006
Board Approval       April 22, 2003       Mid-term Review         November 14, 2005
                                                                                          November 10, 2009
                                          Closing                 December 31, 2007 December 31, 2010
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                  MS
Risk to Development Outcome               Moderate
Bank Performance                          S
Borrower Performance                      S

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance by ICR
                Bank                  Ratings              Borrower                                  Ratings
Quality at Entry                        S      Government                                              S
Quality of Supervision                  S      Implementing Agency/Agencies                            S
Overall Bank Performance                S      Overall Borrower Performance                            S
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation Performance          Indicators       QAG Assessments                          Rating
Potential Problem Project at any time?                  Yes   Quality at Entry (QEA5)                 S
Problem Project at any time?                            Yes   Quality of Supervision (QSA)           NA
DO rating before Closing                                MS


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                      Original               Actual
Sector Code (as a percentage of total Bank financing)
Central Government administration                                        20                     5
Sub-national government administration                                   30                    5
General agriculture, fisheries, and forestry                             20                    10
General water sanitation and flood protection                            15                    10
Roads and highways                                                       15                    70
Theme Code (as a percentage of total Bank financing)
Other public sector governance                                           17                    10
Other rural development                                                  17                    70
Gender                                                                   33                    10
Other environment and natural resources management                       33                    10



E. Bank Staff
         Positions                             At ICR                            At Approval
 Vice President                James W. Adams                        Jemal-ud-din Kassum
 Country Director              Annette Dixon                         Ian C. Porter
 Sector Manager                Jeeva A. Perumalpillai-Essex          Mark D. Wilson
 Project Team Leader           Janelle Plummer                       Louise F. Scura
 ICR Team Leader               Munichan Kung                                           -
 ICR Primary Author            John Victor Bottini                                     -


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from the Project Appraisal Document - PAD)

The overall goals of the project were to reduce poverty, promote good governance at the
commune level, and facilitate local economic development. The specific Project Development
Objective was to contribute to rural development and poverty reduction through supporting
provision of priority public goods and services at the commune level, as well as to promote good
local governance through support of decentralized and deconcentrated participatory local
governance systems at the commune and provincial levels.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objectives of the project remained unchanged throughout the implementation period.
PDO Indicators
                                                 Original Target
                                                                        Formally
                                                  Values (from                       Actual Value Achieved at
Indicator            Baseline Value                                      Revised
                                                    approval                        Completion or Target Years
                                                                      Target Values
                                                  documents)
Indicator 1: ERR of sample of sub-projects.
                                                                                   ERR > 18%
             Limited access of rural small
Value       scale infrastructure and ERR is    ERR >12%                    -
            less than 12%.
Date                   31/Dec/2003                  Dec/2003                             31/Dec/2010
            Target Achieved.
            Data from 2009 socio-economic survey showed:
            - 90% of villagers confirmed that travel time was less due to improved roads. Among those, 37%
                utilized saved time for farming and 17% for other productive activities.

            -   Frequencies of travel (person-trips per month) and distances covered (person-kilometers per year)
                by rural residents for agricultural purposes/crop production increased over the baseline figures by
Comments        82% and 100%, respectively, during the wet season, and by 37% and 108%, respectively, during the
                dry season.
            -   Primary income from “selling rice” doubled (from 18% to 35%), and more than tripled (from 9% to
                31%) for “selling non-rice products”.
            -   The Economic and Financial analysis at the ICR time conservatively concluded that the ERR of the
                rural infrastructure projects is above 18%. (Annex 3)
Indicator 2: Knowledge, attitudes, belief, and practices (KABP) regarding good local governance improved by
EOP.
                                                                                   Perception among both local
Value        Poor perception and practice of                               -       people and commune councilors
            good governance at local level.                                        regarding local governance
                                                                                   much improved.
Date                      2003                                                               31/Dec/2010
         Target achieved.
         Local governance improved as measured by the local governance index (LGI) which rose by 11%
Comments between 2008-2009 nationally. The LGI increase at sub-national level is uneven among provinces.
         Among factors that contributed to LGI growth, the C/SF is the most significant (NCDD/PST/M&E Unit,
         2010).
 Indicator 3: Improved procurement, financial management, and accounting practices adopted and consistently
applied for the commune/sangkat Fund (C/S F) by EOP.
            Undefined                                                              An enhanced system and
Value                                                                      -       procedures (PIM) adopted and in
                                                                                   use.
Date                        -                                              -                31/Dec/2010
         Target achieved.
         The project management and procurement procedures, acceptable to IDA, were included in the PIM
Comments which was updated annually. About 80% of all commune sub-projects were deemed acceptable for
         reimbursement from the IDA Credit/Grant. The PIM is now an official government document being used
         for C/S Fund implementation.
Indicator 4: Enhance reporting, disclosure and complaint handling procedures adopted at commune level by EOP.
                                                A fully functioning
Value       Undefined                                                               The AWG is in place and
                                               AWG by end of               -       functions, with limited
                                               project.
                                                                                   performance in some provinces.
Date                        -                      31/Dec/2010             -                31/Dec/2010
         Target achieved.
Comments A nationwide complaint handling scheme, Accountability Working Groups (AWG), was established in
         2004. The scheme was evaluated in 2007 and upgraded to cover other activities and sources of funds
            under the management of the NCDD. The results are mixed, with some good and some weak provinces.
            The scheme continues even though the project is closed. More information on complaints and the AWG
            is available on:
            http://www.ncdd.gov.kh/en/accountability-working-group
       Intermediate Outcome Indicators
                                                  Original Target      Formally
                                                   Values (from         Revised       Actual Value Achieved at
Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                     approval           Target       Completion or Target Years
                                                   documents)           Values
Indicator 1: Planning guidelines reflect inclusive and participatory processes by end of 2008: (i) gender balanced
village representation in the Planning-Budgeting Committees (PBC); (ii) effective community participation--
including women and ethnic minorities in the planning process; and (iii) wide information dissemination about the
planning process and results. Preparation of CDP/CIP follows the revised guidelines and reflects local priorities in
80% of communes by end of project (EOP).
            The initial version of the official
                                                                                    An improved version of the
Value       commune planning guidelines
                                                                                    commune planning guidelines is
            issued in 2002, based on a pilot in
                                                                                    in use in all 1,621 communes.
            certain areas.
Date                       2002                                            -                  31/Dec/2010
         Targets achieved.
         (i) All PBC established with at least one woman representative from each village of the commune,
Comments resulting in at least 30% of PBC members being women. (ii) General attendance rate of local people in
         the planning process is about 25% for men and 40% for women. (iii) Local priorities have been
         identified and adopted (85%) in the CIPs. The planning guidelines were amended in 2008 to provide for
         improved inclusion of ethnic minorities in the process.
 Indicator 2: i) > 50% of C/S Budget prepared by C/SC and approved by Provincial Governors by end of Jan and
95% by end of Feb of each year by EOP. ii) > 95% of investments included in C/S Budget reflect priorities in CIPs.

Value
                                                                                    Targets achieved.

Date                                                                                     31/Dec/2010
         Targets achieved.
         (i) More than 95% of the C/S annual budget was prepared by the Commune Council and endorsed by the
Comments
         provincial Governors by end February of each year. (ii) Nearly 100% of the investments reflected in the
         commune annual budget plans are consistent to the priorities in the CIPs.
 Indicator 3: i) 3,900 sub-projects by end of 2006 and 7,500 sub-projects by EOP implemented in participating
communes; ii) > 90% of sub-projects of satisfactory technical quality; iii) > 50% of the final payments to
contractors for sub-projects made within 12 months of budget approval and signed contracts and 100% within 18
months; iv) >90% of sub-projects conform to safeguard procedures (and no serious safeguard issues with any
projects).
Value
                                                                                    Targets achieved.
Date                                                                                      31/Dec/2010
        Targets achieved.
        (i) By Dec 2010, a total of 9,624 commune sub-projects were completed in the 23 target provinces, of
        which 8,327 (87%) were considered eligible for RILGP funding; (ii) About 95% of sub-projects were
Comment considered technically satisfactory with respect to their designs and 80% with respect to construction
        quality (Technical Audit report 2010); (iii) For all sub-project contracts, 40% of payments were made
        within 6 months; another 40% within 8 months; with the last 20% within 14 months from the date of
        contract signing; (iv) As safeguards aspects of sub-projects were subject to review and clearance before
        bidding, 100% of the sub-projects complied with safeguards procedures.
 Indicator 4: i) 100% of participating communes and sub-national support staff to receive relevant training on
planning, implementation, procurement and finance systems and procedures within first year of implementation. ii)
At least one visit per month by sub-national technical support staff to commune; iii) PST/NCDD equipped with
vehicles, computers and needed equipment by the end of year one; iv) Provincial ExCom units and Provincial
Treasuries equipped with vehicles, computers, motorcycles, photocopy machines, boats, furniture and generators by
end of year one; v) PST and Provincial ExCom buildings constructed/ rehabilitated by end of 2008.
                                                                                 Targets achieved.
Value
Date                                                                     -                 31/Dec/2010
          (i) All 1,545 communes participating in the project and sub-national support staff were fully trained in
         the first year of implementation and received refresher training at the beginning of each new planning
         cycle; (ii) On average, technical support officers made 10-13 visits to each sub-project during each
Comments project cycle, with the number of visits depending on the complexity and remoteness of the sub-projects;
         (iii) Office equipment, vehicles, motorcycles, and boats were procured and allocated to NCDDs; and (iv)
         The provincial ExCom and treasuries were equipped on time; (v) The construction and renovation of 11
         ExCom buildings were completed before 2008, while two were completed in late 2009 due to
         unexpected technical issues.
Indicator 5: National SNDD program consistent with D&D Strategic Framework and in place by end of Jan 2009
                                                                                 Target achieved 10 months later
Value
                                                                                 than expected.
Date                                                                                        June/2010
         Target achieved with some delay.
         The formulation of the national program for SNDD was completed by September 2009. The political
         dialogue and consultations and further revisions of the document took longer than expected. The
Comments program, which outlined a 10-year path (2010-2019) for D&D reform in Cambodia, was finalized and
         launched in June 2010. It forms the foundation for the program-based approach for all activities and
         projects which contribute to D&D reform.
 Indicator 6: i) Revised sub-decree establishing C/SF allocations for 2008-2010 issued by late 2007; ii) Communes
receive cash transfers equal to C/SF allocations within the timeframe of agreed schedule of monthly cash releases
from 2005 onward; iii) Development of a strategy to increase commune own-source revenues (OSRs) by mid 2007,
regulations promulgated to facilitate collection of OSRs by 2008, and implementation of this strategy starting in
2009.
Value
                                                                                 Targets partially achieved.

Date                                                                                       31/Dec/2010
         Targets partially achieved.
         i) The revised sub-decree establishing C/SF allocation for 2008-2010 was issued on July 28, 2007; ii)
Comments Commune funds were transferred in a timely manner (monthly) according to the schedule set by MEF
         for 2005-2008, then bimonthly from 2009 onward. iii) A strategy to increase commune own-source
         revenues was not developed. This target is redefined under platform 2 of the 10-year National Program
         for SNDD.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                   Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                        Development Objective            Implementation Progress           Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                                                (US$ million)
 01     06/30/2003      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                                             0
 02     12/23/2003      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                                          1.15
 03     06/25/2004      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                                          3.13
 04     12/20/2004      Satisfactory                      Unsatisfactory                                        6.42
 05     06/23/2005      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                                          9.31
 06     05/30/2006      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                                         13.18
 07     06/26/2007      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                                         20.11
 08     06/05/2008      Satisfactory                      Moderately Satisfactory                              25.98
 09     01/24/2009      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Unsatisfactory                            32.70
 10     09/30/2009      Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                              41.88
 11 11/10/2010        Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                               56.84




H. Restructuring
                     Board     ISR Ratings at        Amount Disbursed
   Restructuring   Approved    Restructuring                                 Reason for Restructuring & Key
                                                     at Restructuring in
     Date(s)          PDO                                                            Changes Made
                                                        USD Millions
                    Change     IP         DO


                                                                           NDP, SIDA., DfID)

 02/07/2007                          S           S                17.92



                                                                           eas to 23 provinces.

 07/26/2007                          S          MS                21.69



                                                                           Reallocates the proceeds of
                                                                           the Financing allocated in the
 06/28/2010                         MS          MS
                                                                           table in Section IV of the
                                                                           Financing Agreement.



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In the late 1990s Cambodia emerged from nearly 30 years of war as one of the world’s poorest
countries: 36 percent of the total population of nearly 12 million lived below the poverty line and
20% of households were female-headed and usually poor. Poverty is predominantly a rural
phenomenon in Cambodia, with 90% of the rural population considered poor.

The primary focus of development in the aftermath of the prolonged period of war was
reconciliation and reintegration. As this process proceeded, a shift in focus was necessary to ensure
a more coordinated and sustainable decentralized development approach. With this focus in mind,
the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC) introduced the Seila Program in 1996. “Seila” means
“foundation stone” in Khmer; and this was RGC’s premier program to build democracy and
improve local welfare from the bottom up. Seila sought to provide the foundation for rural poverty
alleviation and good local governance using a two-pronged approach: (a) developing and
strengthening local institutions in support of decentralized and deconcentrated rural development;
and (b) providing efficient and effective grant financing for investments in locally managed
infrastructure and public services, identified as priorities through a participatory planning process.
Initially supported by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Cambodia
Resettlement and Reintegration Project, Seila enabled donors to partner with government on
decentralized rural development.

Encouraged by the success of the first phase of Seila (1996-2000) in its five pilot provinces, and
similar projects such as the Bank’s Northeast Village Development Project, Seila continued with a
second, expanded phase (2001-2005), under the supervision of a new inter-ministerial task force.
The Seila Task Force was approved by the Council of Ministers on 5 January 2001.

To finance these expanded efforts, the RGC requested broad-based donor support for Phase II of
Seila. UNDP and the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), donors of
the first phase of Seila, were joined by the United Kingdom's Department for International
Development (DFID) in funding Seila Phase II through the Partnership for Local Governance
(PLG), a UNDP-administered multi-donor trust fund, the main source of technical assistance and
capacity building for Seila. The RGC also requested support from the International Development
Association (IDA) through the proposed Rural Investment and Local Governance Project (RILGP)
in December 2002. Through RILGP, Seila phase II facilitated support to the newly established
commune councils to help expand assets and reduce inequalities by: (a) engaging poor households
and communities in decisions on local development investments; and (b) providing funds for local
investment priorities, in particular tertiary infrastructure. RILGP also helped the RGC in c)
establishing policy and institutionalizing reforms to more effectively deliver basic services and
continue the process of decentralization and deconcentration (D&D).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective (PDO) was to contribute to rural development and poverty
reduction through supporting provision of priority public goods and services at the commune level,
as well as to promote good local governance through support of decentralized and deconcentrated
participatory local governance systems at the commune and provincial levels.

Achievement of the PDO was to be assessed by whether services and investments were efficiently
and effectively provided and whether support systems for decentralized, participatory local
development were adopted. The original key outcome/impact indicators for the PDO were: (a) ERR

                                                  1
for a sample of sub-projects greater than 12%; (b) Knowledge, Attitude, Belief and Practices
(KABP) regarding improved local governance improved; and (c) a 20% increase by EOP in demand
responsiveness to priorities identified in the commune development plans (CDPs).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original PDO remained unchanged. However, two additional key performance indicators (KPIs)
were introduced with approval of the additional financing in 2007 and one of the original KPIs was
dropped. See Section 1.6 below for details.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

Originally, about 1,110 communes in 15 provinces, representing some 1.5 million households, were
targeted under the project. With additional financing, the number of communes was expected to
increase to 1,473 communes in 23 provinces, with around 2 million households receiving benefits.
At the end of the project, there were actually 1,545 communes in 23 provinces which benefited from
the project. The main beneficiaries included both the elected councils (the commune/sangkat chiefs
and council members and staff of key committees such as the Planning and Budgeting Committee of
each commune) as well as communities themselves. In addition the National Committee for Sub-
National Democratic Development (NCDD) and cooperating national ministries and departments,
the provincial department staff working with the project and by EOP over 1,000 small, private
sector contractors also benefited from working on sub-projects.

1.5 Original Components

Component 1- Local Planning and Investment (US$ 37.33 million or 60.1% of total project
cost). Through the C/SF the project was to support:

   a) the newly established decentralized planning process at the commune level, including
      development of five-year Commune/Sangkat Development Plans (CDP), three-year rolling
      Commune/Sangkat Investment Programs (CIP), and annual commune budgets for
      implementing said plans; and
   b) Sub-project grants for small-scale rural infrastructure investments at the commune level,
      identified and prioritized through the local participatory planning process in target provinces.

Component 2- Policy Support and Project Management (US$ 24.83 million or 39.9% of the
total project cost). This component supported:

   a) Strengthening of the Borrower’s institutions at all levels to enable them to implement,
      supervise, monitor and evaluate the Project and achieve its objectives, through provision of
      capacity building; technical assistance; logistical and operational support, including office
      buildings and equipment (such as vehicles, motorcycles, office communications, furniture);
      and incremental operating costs for implementing Component 1; and
   b) Consulting services to conduct strategic studies related to D&D reforms, socio-economic
      follow-up studies, mid-term and final project evaluations, monitoring quality of procurement
      support by the technical support unit (TSU) to C/S Councils, annual independent audits of
      project accounts, as well as workshops focused on reviews of the Seila systems and proposed
      updates.

1.6 Revised Components

Justified by its successful implementation and the strong commitment of the RGC in moving
forward with D&D reforms, Additional financing in the form of an IDA grant of US$36.25 million
                                               2
(equivalent) was approved on August 14, 2007 to scale up RILGP. The Additional Financing
allocated US$28.45 million (78%) to component 1 and US$7.8 million (22%) to component 2.
Coverage was expanded from 15 provinces to 23 provinces—the entire country except for the
capital of Phnom Penh—and the implementation period was extended for an additional three years,
to December 31, 2010.

With the additional financing, the project components did not change substantially, but the average
annual allocation for each commune/sangkat under the Commune/Sangkat Fund (C/SF; component
1) increased from about $8,500 to approximately $15,000. Formulation of the National Program for
Sub-National Democratic Development (NP-SNDD) was added as a new output to component 2,
setting the stage for a possible follow-on operation and better ensuring the sustainability of RILGP
efforts, and most importantly the development of policy to guide future D&D efforts by all
development partners.

Two additional PDO-level KPIs were added: (a) improved procurement, financial management and
accounting practices adopted and consistently applied for the C/SF; and (b) enhanced reporting,
disclosure, and complaint handling procedures adopted by closing. One of the original indicators
was dropped (the demand responsiveness to priorities identified in CDPs increased 10% by mid-
term and 20% by project closing) as it had become less relevant.

1.7 Other significant changes

The activities funded with the additional financing remained consistent with the original project
objectives and components. The significant changes were:

a)     In late 2006, direct management of the project and the C/S Councils transferred from the
         RGC’s Seila Task Force (STF) to the NCDD (the National Committee for Decentralization
         and Deconcentration and its Secretariat) located in the Ministry of Interior. This transfer
         was the consequence of the expiration of the STF Secretariat’s mandate on December 31,
         2006 and the decision of RGC to establish a more sustainable and expanded authority to
         promote and manage D&D reform. The NCDD’s full name was later changed to the
         National Committee for Sub-National Democratic Development (requiring a level II
         restructuring), following the enactment of the Law on Administrative Management of the
         Capital, Provinces, Municipalities, Districts and Khan in May 2008.
b)     The project underwent a level II restructuring in June 2010, reallocating funds to support
         technical assistance (TA) previously funded by participating development partners via the
         UNDP-managed PSDD and adjusting the allocation of various disbursement categories to
         increase the amount for sub-grants (category 5). This reallocation was not utilized in the
         final event as UNDP did not sign the MoU with the RGC.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

RILGP was well aligned with RGC policies and priorities: The RGC's Governance Action Plan
states that "Government views decentralization, deconcentration and local governance as a means to
further democratize the country and improve service delivery in the regions." Moreover, the
National Poverty Reduction Strategy (NPRS) recognizes the cross-cutting themes of
decentralization and deconcentration as fundamental to rural development and poverty reduction in
Cambodia. The stated objectives of the reforms are to: (a) promote democracy, good governance
and quality of life; (b) give ordinary people greater opportunities to determine their future; and (c)
ensure sustainable development, including the delivery of basic services.


                                                  3
The main objective of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 2000 was to assist RGC to build
the foundation for sustainable development and poverty reduction over the medium- to long-term.
Two of the four key thrusts of the CAS were: (a) supporting good governance, through measures
articulated in the government’s Governance Action Plan, including decentralization (of political
authority) and deconcentration (of administrative responsibilities) and (b) building physical
infrastructure, especially in rural areas. Donor coordination and partnerships were also given a high
priority in the CAS. RILGP directly supported RGC policies and priorities and was in line with
these CAS objectives.

Foundation laid for further development: The implementation of the Seila Program (1997 to 2003)
strengthened local level planning and development investments, and supported the passage of the
key laws on commune/sangkat governance in 2001 and the first direct commune/sangkat elections
in 2002. It also provided a strong foundation for the preparation of the RILGP, seizing
opportunities for the development of democratization and poverty alleviation at the local level. The
project was well aligned with the government’s Governance Action Plan, the NPRS, and the CAS;
therefore the rationale for IDA intervention was strong.

Based on the experience with Seila and subsequent developments regarding commune/sangkat
governance, it was determined that (a) the new project should use country structures, systems and
procedures to the extent possible; (b) a renewed emphasis on good governance and fiduciary
controls was needed; and (c) studies and policy work to assist the RGC in the drafting of laws and
implementing regulations for further decentralization and deconcentration to the districts/
municipalities and provinces of Cambodia were appropriate.

By implementing through the RGC structures, systems and procedures, RILGP created opportunities
and leverage for the Bank to contribute to D&D policy in Cambodia, from procedures and systems
of planning, finance, and procurement at the commune level up to the national framework for future
local governance reform of the whole country.

Risks well identified and mitigated: The risks, with an overall risk rating of “Moderate” and
accompanying mitigation measures, were well identified during preparation of the original project
as well as for the additional financing.

One of the key risks identified involved delays in the drafting and promulgation of additional D&D
laws and regulations as well as in the availability and disbursement of funds. Delays were common
but in general were well managed, with timeliness improving over time (except in 2010, in part due
to changes in staff incentives and the handling of operational expenses). A number of key laws were
drafted in part as a result of this project, as mentioned in section 1.7 (d).

A second key risk revolved around fiduciary controls and safeguards. The RGC improved the
project implementation manual (PIM) to strengthen systems, procedures and clearances. Additional
TA was mobilized (three Regional Safeguard Advisors were mobilized, for example) to ensure
compliance. Although procedures were strict and clearances sometimes slow, overall consistency in
adherence to mandated procedures improved significantly.

In part because of the desire to utilize country systems, the project financed investments on a
“reimbursement” basis; the RGC pre-financed all activities. The project put in place a screening
mechanism which identified cases of non-compliance and safeguarded project funds so that only
eligible expenses were reimbursed. A regime of mass prior and post reviews for procurement,
performed by the Bank Task Team, satisfactorily enforced fiduciary safeguards, in a risky
environment. During preparation of the additional financing, weaknesses and improvements in
fiduciary controls were flagged. During the implementation of the Additional Financing, studies
were carried out dealing with Commune/Sangkat budget execution. The Bank fielded a special

                                                 4
fiduciary review mission in 2004 and another one in 2009. A detailed action plan was drawn up in
December 2008, to follow up on a budget execution study done in early 2008. Significant progress
was made. A Bank review actually indicated that reviews and clearances could be streamlined, with
more post reviews rather than prior reviews and with reviews carried out in purposefully selected
locations, based on risks, rather than in every province. This indicated a level of confidence in the
procedures put in place and their implementation as the project was nearing its end. In an initially
risky environment, the project introduced systems and improved capacities which safeguarded
project funds. When problems were identified, they were dealt with satisfactorily.

The third major identified risk was the limited capacity at the commune/sangkat level and in sub-
national government offices to implement commune level project activities. Over the seven years of
the project, with (UNDP and RILGP-funded) TA, numerous cycles of planning and sub-project
implementation, extensive training, and NCDD-S and Bank reviews and clearances, capacities
increased, as various studies and evaluations of RILGP and C/SF implementation have documented.

Although the risk level overall was assessed as Moderate, mitigation measures ensured that the
project was not significantly negatively affected by any of the risks flagged. Nevertheless, the
timeliness of the transfer of funds was monitored annually.

Institutionalizing participation and support for accountability: With the first election of C/S
Councils in 2002 and the second nation-wide election in 2007, representative local government was
formally established in Cambodia. Transparency improved as more information became publicly
available; interest continued, and continues, to lag, and citizens do not access or use available
data/information to improve planning and to demand accountability. Recognizing that accountability
would still be a serious issue with the new representative councils, the RGC and the RILGP required
the active participation of citizens, so that decisions and oversight were not left only to the new
councils. Overall 40% to 60% of households participated, although this took the form of one-way
information flows, passive attendance was the norm in most communes. As the project progressed,
more attention was rightly paid to accountability measures, and with the establishment of the
Accountability Working Groups (AWGs) system, a nationwide complaints handling mechanism was
put in place for commune activities throughout Cambodia.

Government commitment: As stated in previous sections, RILGP was well aligned with government
policies and priorities; and government was committed to the project and its objectives. The RGC
has allocated increasing amounts of funding to the C/SF and taken steps to improve the management
of the C/SF. The NCDD-S was responsive to supervision mission recommendations.

PDO and KPIs weaknesses: The PDO included elements usually stated as part of the “sectoral
goal,” to which the project contributed but, for which, the achievement could not fully attributed to
the project. Attribution of poverty reduction outcomes to the project proved difficult given the vast
number of development projects taking place at the sub-national level. The KPIs were revised when
the additional financing was approved. However one KPI which should have been reworked, for
example, was not; the KPI regarding KABPs mixes the achievement indicator with the method of
measuring the indicator.

2.2 Implementation

Overall, over the years, RILGP implementation was satisfactory, in an emerging post conflict, low
capacity context. RILGP was only considered “at risk” twice during implementation: (i) in late
2004-early 2005 primarily due to late cash transfers from the National Treasury to the commune
accounts at the provincial level, but the situation was effectively resolved and C/SF cash transfers
were on schedule thereafter (except in 2010, for reasons explained elsewhere); (ii) in late 2008-early
2009 due to inadequate project management performance, when the implementing agency was
                                                  5
occupied with other key responsibilities, including the passage of the Organic Law, preparing for
indirect election of the district and provincial councils, and formulating the National Program for
Sub-national Democratic Development. Performance improved quickly once flagged.

Two mid-term reviews (MTR) were carried out, one in January 2006 for the original project and
another in December 2009 for the additional financing. The additional financing, and the extension
of the closing date of RILGP, provided for the expansion of coverage, enabling national coverage
for all communes/sangkat (with the exception of the capital, Phnom Penh). This was appropriate
given the objectives of the project and was not considered risky given that the project had already
been running satisfactorily, in overall terms, for about four years. The second MTR, carried out in
2009, based on a report by an independent consultant, evaluated the project in a number of areas,
including efficiency, effectiveness, impact, relevance, and sustainability. In all these areas the
project was assessed as satisfactory. Recommendations were made regarding improvements in a
number of areas, including in governance, specifically: citizen participation, safeguards and sub-
project technical quality. The latter issue – the poor quality of TA to the councils – was a recurring
problem throughout the project. While some corrective actions were undertaken (e.g. additional TA
for fiduciary controls and for safeguards was provided) the problem with commune technical
support was not resolved, and piloting of alternative solutions was still underway as the project
closed. Changes in manuals to support low capacity technical support officers helped to some
degree (e.g. improvements were made to design templates for irrigation sub-projects, training
conducted on irrigation project feasibility, and additional surveying equipment provided).

The program of combined support for capacity building (including rigorous reviews) and the
provision of small budgets to the new C/S Councils provided for the success of the project. The C/S
Councils were established by direct election in 2002, based on the Commune/Sangkat
Administration Law passed in 2001. The project provided capacity building and technical backup to
facilitate these councils to identify local needs and to invest in priority sub-projects, each year,
building skills and capacity through repetition. Communes increased their capacity to plan, carry out
procurement, manage and account for funds, report on progress of small, local development
projects, and to begin to cooperate with local district and municipal government agencies. The seven
years of RILGP provided for the needed repetition to build capacities and establish procedures and
implement policies nation-wide. A project of shorter duration that did not achieve scale at the
national level would probably not have had the attention and impact of RILGP.

Events outside the control of the project: During the life of the project, two unforeseen events
occurred: the financial crisis of 2007 and Typhoon Ketsana in 2009. The impact of the financial
crisis on the project was significant although temporary and the situation was handled well by
NCDD-S. Of the approximately 2,000 contracts signed in 2007, over 60% (1,181) were delayed and
carried over into 2008. The price of fuel and materials doubled due to the financial crisis, and as a
result many contractors delayed construction or simply abandoned contracts. The risk of abandoned
contracts was managed locally, with guidance from NCDD, with only about 4% not able to be
carried out. In 2009, the typhoon caused damage to commune sub-projects and delays in planning
for the following cycle in several communes, but overall the impact was minor.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E design of RILGP was satisfactory, although the KPIs changed over time. Community
Demand-Driven (CDD) projects do not easily lend themselves to annual targets (due to cyclical sub-
project approval and implementation and frequent delays caused by low capacity in dispersed
locations), and RILGP did not set such targets. With a “menu” approach established, the types of
sub-projects could not be determined in advance. Since RILGP did not directly finance much of the
TA, due to the availability of TA from the UNDP-managed Project to Support Democratic
Development through Decentralization and Deconcentration (PSDD), the project was dependent to
                                                  6
some extent for M&E on the cooperation of PSDD. Overall monitoring was well covered, with
extensive monitoring for safeguards and complaints, for example. The NCDD-S was responsive to
the recommendations of supervision, studies and post reviews, taking appropriate corrective action
in a timely manner. An impressive number of studies and assessments were carried out during the
seven years of RILGP, although perhaps more evaluations could have been financed by the credit
itself, and great attention paid to the findings of the studies.

On the ground monitoring and routine oversight were provided with the assistance of approximately
125 UNDP-appointed and managed consultants (based in Phnom Penh and 23 provinces). The RGC’s
web-based Project Information Database formed the backbone of progress reporting, and it included
not only progress data but also publication of bids/tenders and later in the project of complaints filed
and resolved. The PID helped to ensure that only eligible expenditures were financed by the project.

The project through Component 2 was well studied and documented. Over 50 studies were carried
out, providing feedback and input for improvements in the PIM and project implementation. Inputs
regarding financial management and procurement skills and practices were also sufficient to allow
changes in operations and the recruitment of additional TA needed. Studies or evaluations to
determine the impact of the project on poverty alleviation are based on small samples and basically
qualitative, making attribution difficult, especially at a time when Cambodia was growing rapidly
and poverty rates were falling. Government officials, consultants and villagers in general have
reported that the sub-projects financed by the C/SF contributed to improvements in local growth and
the welfare of villagers, especially through improved access, reduced transport costs and travel time,
year round. Studies of ERR rates showed rates above 12%, often much higher for tertiary roads, for
the small infrastructures built with the C/SF. These same studies indicated C/S small-scale roads
were efficiently built, for lesser amounts than similar roads built by other organizations and projects.
Local roads were the first priority of most villages, but villages also expressed the need for water
systems, irrigation and education. The project only funded approximately 50% of all C/SF sub-
projects. Priorities other than small-scale infrastructure, including services and livelihood
investments (such as animal banks, training, etc.) were funded by the RGC funds or by other
development partner projects. Early in the project, in 2005, misprocurement was declared (involving
a few sub-projects) and the full amount was reimbursed and deducted from the credit. Non-
compliances found in post reviews were corrected through replacement of non-compliant
expenditures, sanctions and a tightening of procedures.

As the project systems are now absorbed into an institutionalized nation-wide program without
parallel UNDP systems, but with insufficient funding, there is some concern about the sustainability
of M&E, the project management information system (MIS) and routine reporting.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards: The project was correctly categorized as a Category “B” - partial assessment. Three
safeguards policies were triggered: environmental assessment, involuntary resettlement, and
indigenous peoples. The environmental issues arising from the types of sub-projects to be financed
were minor and easily mitigated with well known techniques. Environmental screenings were carried
out satisfactorily, with no serious negative impacts noted. Impact studies carried out during
implementation indicated no significant problems with the implementation in the identified provinces
with populations of indigenous peoples. A “watch list” was set up of communes that were likely
sensitive with respect to the environment and indigenous people. In April 2004, the project was
awarded the Bank’s Green Award for innovative mainstreaming of environmental and social
safeguards.

Although no serious problems were identified related to compliance with the safeguard policies
triggered by the project, during the preparation of the additional financing, some concern was

                                                   7
expressed regarding land acquisition and resettlement, which had been problematic in Cambodia in
general. As such, an additional level of caution was deemed prudent. Three regional safeguard
advisors were recruited to improve review and clearances, and an NGO was engaged to pilot a
campaign for improving land awareness issues. The primary issue concerned land right-of-way and
land acquisition (by donation in most cases), and the main concern was with documentation, ensuring
that all affected households donated land voluntarily without coercion or disadvantage. The improved
processes are now in place.

Fiduciary: The overall risks for procurement and financial management were rated "high" due to the
perceived fiduciary risks in Cambodia in general and because the project was implemented at the
local level in the main through new local councils across the country.

In a risky and collusive environment, with upward of 4000 officials involved, the process introduced
for the management of the C/S Fund, involved rigorous reviews, and the project’s disbursement
mechanism ensured that project funds were used for intended purposes and safeguards were
complied with. Misprocurement occurred in 2005, for a few sub-projects and the Bank funds were
refunded. When policies and procedures were not complied with, sanctions were levied and
adherence to procedures improved over time. Project procedures and enforcement mitigated the high
risks for Bank-financed sub-projects, and consequently few serious problems were encountered
during implementation. However non-compliant sub-projects, not eligible to be financed by RILGP,
were still financed from RGC funds, undermining the overall impact and commitment to the
procedures put in place, and creating a counter argument to the efficacy of the reimbursement
mechanism.

The annual cycle of prior and post review allowed the NCDD-S to manage procurement problems
effectively; it was not necessary to suspend disbursements as problems were addressed immediately.
Project monitoring and supervision, special studies such as the study on budget execution in 2008,
and Integrated Fiduciary Supervision Assessment carried out by the Bank in 2009, allowed
improvements to be made to manuals, training and practices. Post reviews showed significant
improvement in practices and commitment to change was illustrated when NCDD-S commissioned a
Small Contractor Study in 2010 to better understand the processes of collusion in C/SF projects.

The NCDD-S has signaled their intention to keep these improved, rigorous processes in place.
However while these intensive procedures are applauded by some, others request simplification. The
start of the 3 year Implementation Plan (IP3) provides an excellent opportunity for a review of
procedures and their implementation without the Bank's direct involvement, allowing an assessment
of capacity built over the last seven years and consistency in compliance.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The C/S councils are established by law and their funds are part of the government's budget (now set
at 2.8% of the total public revenue of the RGC). In 2011, the average grant per C/S is almost
$25,000, a significant increase from 2010. Management of the C/S fund and the sub-projects is still
governed by the PIM, issued by the NCDD. No changes of any significance have been introduced
since the project closed and the 3 year SNDD implementation plan commenced; communes are
planning and implementing sub-projects in 2011 as they did in 2009 and 2010. Concerns continue
around participation, passive at best during the project lifetime, and the quality of technical support
to councils. Monitoring provided by UNDP advisers has now been institutionalized in the NCDD,
but this remains to be tested.

As might be expected, maintenance in general remains a concern. All investments financed by the
project are public goods, mostly tertiary roads. Dirt roads are problematic because they are not
subject to routine maintenance. They fall victim to rain, flood, and erosion and may become
                                                   8
impassable during the rainy season. The “Road Law,” drafted during the implementation of the
Bank-financed first Road Rehabilitation Project, clarifies roles and responsibilities for road
maintenance, but it has yet to be passed. School buildings, cement tracks, and investments that
normally involve user groups and fees (village water systems, for example) tend to be more
sustainable. More attention needs to be given to O&M of the rural infrastructure--to financing
maintenance and the roles and responsibilities of the councils versus sub-national technical agencies
for maintenance and recurrent costs, per the as yet draft “Road Law.”

Support from local government technical agencies is mixed and cannot yet be depended on. District
and provincial councils are now established, indirectly elected by the C/S Councils. Through the
launch of the 3 year SNDD Implementation Plan, the RGC is planning for additional DP financing to
continue to support the C/S Councils to undertake development priorities that meet local needs,
improve local governance while building links to the strengthened district and provincial councils,
and the executive supporting local government. Through the development of the regulatory
framework in support of the new sub-national finance law, attention is to be paid to further
developing inter-governmental fiscal transfers that improve downward accountability for districts
and provinces—for maintenance, for example—such as has been already put in place for the
communes and sangkats, in large part through RILGP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

 Rating: Satisfactory
The objectives and design of RILGP were highly relevant at appraisal and continued through the
closing in December 2010. RILGP supported RGC priorities and CAS objectives related to
decentralization, good governance, and poverty reduction. RILGP directly supported Objective 4 of
the CAS: Support decentralization and promote citizens’ participation for better governance. The
project also supported the Bank's commitments to assist Cambodia “to halve poverty by 2015" by
investing in priority tertiary infrastructure, especially rural roads, and other priority public goods and
services. The project provided support to the RGC for policy development to support further
decentralization and deconcentration reform, as well as improved systems and procedures related to
inter-governmental fiscal transfers, planning, procurement and implementation of local investments.
The implementation of RILGP, including the weaknesses identified and addressed, helped build
capacities and established “tried and tested” procedures, which were adopted in a nationwide
program and continue to be used.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

 Rating: Moderately Satisfactorily
The project performed moderately satisfactorily in achieving the PDO, although the PDO is too
broad. The overarching goal of the project was poverty reduction and the linkages of this project to
rural poverty reduction, although strong, were indirect. One of the keys to expanding economic
opportunities and improving the prospects of poor people, especially in remote, rural areas, was to
build their asset base and provide access to priority tertiary infrastructure. The project did this by
empowering local representative councils in the planning and implementation of small sub-projects,
in particular small rural works projects, in a more transparent and accountable manner. The outcome
indicators are a decent gauge of project success, even if they do not and the project could not and did
not directly evaluate project results with respect to poverty reductions.

The project, through the C/SF-financed sub-projects, provided villagers with priority public goods
and services, with needed tertiary infrastructure. Of the 9,624 sub-projects implemented in the
project provinces, there are 8,327 (87%) considered eligible to the project, of which nearly 77% were
                                                    9
for transport (US$ 41,364,859); 15% for irrigation and flood protection/drainage (US$ 7,905,072);
4.53% for water supply (US$ 1,699,856); and 2.5% for education (US$ 1,514,277). “Transport” is
primarily rural roads, including 9,770 km of laterite/gravel roads, 4,966 km of earth roads and 10.8
km of concrete/bitumen road and 511 bridges (or culverts serving the same purpose).

There were four key indicators (in the Results Framework of the Additional Financing Project Paper,
July 2, 2007) to measure the achievement of the PDO. The first indicator was the ERR > 12% for a
sample of priority infrastructure investments at the commune level. The other three indicators
measured the extent to which decentralized participatory local governance systems were
strengthened. These were (a) knowledge, attitudes, belief and practices (KABP) regarding good local
governance improved; (b) procurement, financial management and accounting practices adopted and
consistently applied for the C/SF; and (c) reporting, disclosure, and complaints handling procedures
enhanced and adopted at the commune level.

Detailed outputs regarding commune sub-projects, support for the NCDD and provincial ExComs,
and policy studies and evaluations are shown in Annex 2. From socio-economic surveys, studies,
technical audits, financial and safeguard reviews, supervision missions and both MTRs, as well as a
Citizen Satisfaction Survey, evidence is available showing that poverty rates in Cambodia fell and
governance improved, and regulations are now in place for further democratic decentralization and
deconcentration.

Review by KPI

ERR (of a sample of sub-projects) > 12%
 • The ERR for small scale infrastructure sub-projects was around 18% (see Annex 3: Economic
   and Financial Analysis), well above the indicated minimum of 12%, with frequency of travel,
   travel times and transport costs much reduced. As reported earlier, roads were the most
   frequently chosen investment representing over three-quarters of all investments, both in term of
   cost and number of projects. Access to markets and commune and district centers was much
   better -- year round in selected locations -- due to road works. Benefits were widely distributed,
   and it is likely that the rural poor benefited at least proportionately. Technical audits, including
   one as recently as early 2010, reported that the frequency of travel by rural citizens for
   agricultural production and marketing purposes increased between 37% and 108%. Some 87%
   of households surveyed reported that goods and services had become increasingly available
   because of these roads. Motorbikes were more common. However, maintenance remains an
   issue, especially for earth roads. Calculations shown that with better maintenance ERR would
   be much higher.

    The estimated ERR for the overall project in the PAD is in the range of 64%- 74%, though 25%-
    40% in the AF Paper. These appear to be overly optimistic. In the ICR analysis, the ERR is
    estimated at 18% in the base case scenario. One factor explaining the difference is the failure to
    account for project implementation costs associated with the sub-projects in the PAD’s
    economic analysis; but as shown in Annex 3, this can only account for part of the difference.

•   A comparison of the cost for roads was difficult due to design differences, but laterite roads built
    by four different organizations were compared; and in general, for similar laterite roads, those
    built by the C/S Councils were more efficient. Overall quality of works was good (with more
    issues concerning water projects and earth roads) and improved over the life of the project,
    based on a comparison of data collected for the technical audit done in 2005 with the one done
    in early 2010.

•   Many stakeholders expressed satisfaction with the quality and cost of commune investments,
    with many saying commune investments were more efficient that those carried out by sub-

                                                  10
    national government agencies. Many felt that communes could easily handle two or three times
    the amount now annually provided. That said, there is still some concern about the level of
    technical capacity, especially of the Commune Planning and Budgeting Committees (PBC), to
    utilize data available for commune planning and for the design and supervision of individual
    investments.

Knowledge, attitude, belief, and practices (KABP) regarding good local governance improved

•   Across the board citizens, civil society organizations, and government officials reported that the
    C/S Councils are more capable and trusted now. Although only a few councilors are very active,
    councils that did not exist before 2002 are becoming increasingly active and manage their own
    budget. Despite the risks flagged, the general impression is that commune investments involve
    lower levels of fraud and collusion than other investments. Commune councils are increasingly
    active with district administrations, especially in the annual District Integration Workshop
    (DIW) process, though interest and response from sub-national provincial and district agencies
    varies greatly.

•   Based on KABP surveys conducted, indications are clear that community participation and
    broad-based oversight of the councils by citizens was less than hoped for. Around 50% of
    commune residents have attended a commune meeting. Participation was passive but improved
    in quality as familiarity increased through the annual cycles. Encouraging citizens to attend the
    first meeting was a challenge, but after seven years, some trust and participation grew. In the last
    years of RILGP, citizens lodged complaints and started to expect solutions. In general however
    citizens remained less than informed, even though a fairly significant amount of information was
    in the public domain and available for citizen use.

•   A study carried out in 2010 to ascertain improvements in governance using a "local governance
    index" showed clear improvements and linked those improvements in a significant way to the
    handling of the C/SF.

•   Every village had at least one woman representative in the commune Planning and Budgeting
    Committee (PBC). Women councilors have increased in number from about 8% to about 15% as
    a result of the second election in 2007. About 30% of all commune heads/commune council
    heads were women in the last year of the project. Women’s participation in general was low and
    passive, but improved as the project progressed (in association with activity conducted by
    UNICEF). Increased efforts to involve women were needed to support this trend.

•   There is still some concern about commune priorities being set by council chiefs and district or
    provincial officials. Citizens mainly expressed favorable opinions regarding the performance of
    the commune councils, with very few strongly negative responses to questions regarding council
    performance. It appears that if this happened, decisions were not opposed or rejected, even if
    councilors and local government officials were “interfering” in local planning, priority setting
    and funding decisions. That said, there is a clear tendency for commune councils to select
    “public good” type sub-projects to ensure their continued popularity.

•   Cambodian citizen membership in community based civil society organizations (CBOs) is quite
    extensive. CBOs are active in support of commune councils and citizens' rights, and NGOs
    became more actively involved in RILGP in the last years. The NGOs interviewed around
    project closing had no strong negative opinions about the C/S councils, their funds and Bank
    financing. In general the NGOs were very supportive. The negative comments revolved around
    timeliness of the availability of funds and the limitations of Bank financing to tertiary
    infrastructure, mostly roads. The need for more public forums and citizen participation was
    flagged.

                                                  11
Improved procurement, financial management (FM) and accounting practices adopted and
consistently applied for Commune/Sangkat Fund (C/SF)

•   Strict procedures, rigorous reviews and Bank clearances helped reduce non-compliance and built
    local capacities, even with delays and some sacrifice of timeliness in implementation. Annual
    prior reviews of tenders in every province (in four stages), post reviews of well over 500
    contracts, fiduciary reviews (and the hiring of financial management advisors for the NCDD and
    all provinces), and various technical and process audits contributed to an overall consistency in
    complying with and institutionalizing sound procedures, although with the approval of
    additional financing, procedures could have been streamlined in some of the original 15
    provinces and reviews and clearances decentralized, reducing the frequency of prior reviews.
    Processes and procedures in the PIM were used for all C/S planning and investments and not
    just for those sub-projects financed by RILGP. The PIM is in use in 2011 as a part of the 3 year
    Implementation Plan, without any significant changes, even though RILGP has closed.

•   Improvements were introduced to improve capacities, effectiveness and efficiency. For example,
    tenders were opened to pre-qualified contractors from any province in Cambodia, which
    increased competition and reduced the potential for collusion. Technical agencies involved in
    review of sub-project proposals and the annual DIWs began to build solid working relationships
    between commune councils and higher levels of sub-national government, with the potential to
    link demands with supply-side service delivery. The link between communes and districts is
    expected to be strengthened in the next stages of the RGC D&D agenda.

•   Based on detailed recommendations of various missions and in particular a study on budget
    execution (May, 2008), improvements were introduced which affected not just RILGP but the
    management of the C/SF in general.

Enhance reporting, disclosure and complaint handling procedures

•   The C/SF database was web-based. The NCDD web-site posted information regarding funds,
    sub-projects, bids and contracts, implementation progress as well as complaints received and
    their resolution. (e.g. information on those contractors blacklisted by the NCDD-S for collusive
    practices could be found on the web-site). Progress data and reports were publicly disclosed and
    up-dated monthly.

•   Accountability working groups responsible for the implementation of the sub-national
    complaints handling system were established at the national level and in each province, and
    membership involved civil society/NGOs and private contractors. These working groups met on
    average about once a quarter to handle complaints regarding the C/Sangkat activities.

•   Training was conducted on this complaints handling mechanism. 2,545 "accountability boxes"
    (complaints/suggestion boxes) were provided in all communes across the country. Changes in
    procedures were introduced to improve these systems over the project. Between 2006 and mid-
    2010, about 2,430 complaints were lodged, of which just over 800 involved the C/SF. Over half
    of these complaints were resolved by closing.

3.3 Efficiency

More weight should be given to the KPIs related to Component 1, to C/S investments given that the
majority of project funds were devoted to that component. The target for sub-projects was an ERR
>12%. Upon completion, the ERR is at least 18% (Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis).


                                                 12
Comparison of the cost of laterite roads among four organizations/projects indicated those roads built
through the C/SF mechanism were lower in cost for similar value and quality.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

 Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project was consistent with RGC’s priorities and it remained relevant throughout its life. The
project has (a) increased the capacity of C/S councils; (b) helped establish the systems and
procedures for C/SF transfers, commune planning and sub-project design, procurement, financial
management and reporting; and (c) laid the foundation and contributed to the development of the
policy and regulatory framework, as well as the implementation plan for decentralization and
deconcentration from 2011-2014.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
The project’s poverty impact and institutional changes are already discussed above.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

No formal beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were conducted at completion, though
numerous interviews with stakeholders and meetings with government officials at the national,
provincial and commune levels were held. Other DP financiers (SIDA) of D&D and NGOs were also
consulted. Numerous beneficiary surveys were conducted during the life of the project. Input from
these interviews, meetings, visits, studies and surveys were incorporated into this ICR. Details on
interviews, meetings and visits specifically carried out for ICR preparation are noted in Annexes 6
and 8. Details on studies and publications are in Annex 9.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

 Rating: Moderate
The risks to the achievement of the development outcomes and the sustainability of project
achievements are moderate. Linkages of C/S councils to sub-national line agencies are still weak and
transparency and accountability gains still fragile. Local skills and capacities were greatly improved,
but will require continued support being provided through the IP3.

The emerging policy and regulatory framework of the RGC for Sub-national Democratic
Development, the 3 year implementation plan now commenced, should reduce the risks to
sustainability and address previously limited commune cooperation with district/municipal. Capacity
for planning and project implementation, including procurement and financial management,
increased over time – strict procedures for procurement, financial management and safeguards
increased capacity and improved systems, ensuring compliance and better quality. Between 2003
and 2010, councils planned and implemented well over 11,000 sub-projects, increasing their capacity
to do so. Local oversight and better governance measures improved in the last years of the project,
but were less than fully satisfactory. While the Good Governance Framework (GGF) activities
tended to be integrated in the project attention to monitoring was needed. (An update on the
implementation of the GGF is attached in Annex 10.) In line with the Governance and Anti
Corruption (GAC) II strategy and based on the experience of the past seven years, the RGC should
now ensure that the procedures governing the funds available to the councils are enforced in a

                                                  13
consistent manner. Although the project is closed, the project’s achievements and the on-going
functions of the C/S councils could be sustained, indeed strengthened, with a follow-on operation.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

 Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group (QAG) conducted a Quality-at-Entry Review in July 2003, and
found the project approach to be highly relevant and rated the strategic relevance and approach
Highly Satisfactory and overall quality Satisfactory. The Bank's acceptance of the use of country
systems and the "innovative reimbursement" process, with its reviews, strengthened these new
country systems and processes for the C/SF and the councils charged with managing these funds.

The project directly supported the RGC’s Seila Program and was strongly aligned with the RGC’s
Governance Action Plan, NPRS and with the Bank’s CAS. The appraisal drew on findings and
conclusions of the World Development Report (2000-2001). The PDO was too broad with
“contribute to rural development and poverty reduction efforts,” which was difficult to attribute
directly to the project. The project was perhaps too ambitious in scope aiming to improve both local
governance and the local economic conditions at the same time as trying to establish a political
consensus on full fiscal decentralization at the national level. Overall, however, quality-at-entry
performance was satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

 Rating: Satisfactory
Bank supervision was satisfactory in an environment with significant risks associated with financial
management and procurement. The task team proactively identified problems—twice declaring the
project a “problem project”—and provided support, working closely with the implementing agency,
to address them. RILGP was one of four IDA-financed projects in Cambodia to undergo a Fiduciary
Review, which was requested by the Task Team Leader (TTL) and conducted from July to October,
2004. The review highlighted weaknesses in financial management systems similar to those raised
during project preparation but found that the Bank supervision missions had monitored
implementation closely and appropriate remedial actions had been taken. The project introduced to
communes new open, competitive procurement procedures. The Bank actively supervised
compliance with these procedures through both prior reviews of selected packages in every province
in the project and extensive post reviews as well. A later Fiduciary Review in 2009 actually
recommended fewer prior reviews and more post reviews in selected “risky” locations.

Supervision of the implementation of safeguards, both environmental and social, was satisfactory.
The project benefited from the continuity of having the same task team leader (TTL) involved from
project preparation up until the last year, 2010, when task team leadership was shifted to the Bank’s
Phnom Penh office and the new TTL appropriately shifted focus more on sustainability and
governance issues, addressing the fragmented donor environment undermining RILGP outcomes,
and began work on a possible follow-on operation. Bank supervision benefited from intensive
oversight by consultants in the NCDD in Phnom Penh and in each province, including many civil
engineers. For supervision the Bank team relied to a large extent on engineers provided by
cooperating donors. When necessary the Bank reached agreement with the RGC for the mobilization
of additional oversight consultants to assist with supervision, such as the regional safeguard advisors


                                                  14
mobilized in 2008. The RGC acknowledged the quality and benefits of hands-on Bank supervision
and rated Bank performance satisfactory in its Project Completion Report.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

 Rating: Satisfactory
Both quality at entry and supervision were fully satisfactory, leading to a fully satisfactory rating
overall.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

 Rating: Satisfactory
RGC had a very successful Seila program under implementation, involving numerous donors. It
passed a law in 2001 establishing representative local councils at the commune/sangkat level and
national elections were held for councilors in 2002. RGC formulated a Governance Action Plan and a
National Poverty Reduction Strategy. The RGC asked for Bank assistance to support the new
councils and their local community development planning and sub-project implementation and to
assist with laying the foundation for further D&D, including district/municipal and provincial
councils.

In general on this project the government performed well at entry and improved over time, although
there was limited coordination among the various ministries. Variance in performance among the
provincial administrations and technical departments arose, as expected. Throughout the life of the
project, the RCG responded well to supervision and MTR recommendations, improving its own
systems and their implementation, and passed laws and regulations setting the stage for
developments in D&D over the next ten years, based on inputs and experience from this project, a
process which involved numerous ministries and parliament. The project was rated unsatisfactory
once in late 2004 due to unavailability of counterpart funds, but timeliness of disbursements of C/SF
improved and the amounts increased starting in late 2005. The sub-decrees on C/SF allocation, which
were issued every three years, were actualized by the annual C/SF budget allocation with a
committed cash transfer schedule.

The government formally set the stage for further D&D over the next ten years with the approval of
the National Program for Sub-national Democratic Development (NP-SNDD), 2010-2019, and more
recently, the approval of the 3 year Implementation Plan that would support communes and district
development until 2014; provincial and district councils were established. Overall, shortcomings
were minor and addressed satisfactorily.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

 Rating: Satisfactory
The Seila Task Force and later NCDD and sub-national IAs performed well (albeit with support from
the UNDP-appointed and managed consultants assisting the implementing agencies). Compliance
with financial management and procurements requirements and with safeguards was good overall
and improved during the seven years of the project. Over 30,000 government officials and advisors
were trained in good governance measures. Of the 1,072 small contractors pre-qualified, ExCom and
NCDD-S acted to sanction 49 over the lifetime of the project for fraud or collusive practices, and
ensured the Bank had not financed the sub-projects involved; in 2005, misprocurement was declared
on a number of sub-projects and the corresponding Bank funds were cancelled.) The system of C/SF
transfers and commune planning and sub-project implementation were established, though broader-


                                                 15
based citizen engagement in council deliberations, commune planning and investment decisions and
sub-project implementation monitoring could have been promoted more vigorously.

The lack of proper maintenance has been a constant issue for the thousands of small scale
infrastructure works built using the C/SF, especially the dirt roads. Beside the minor maintenance
available from the respective local communities, these outputs should be included in a more
systematic maintenance program supported by the RGC.

Implementation of the GGF was integrated in the main, though monitoring could have been more
rigorous; improvements were made in the later years of the project with the improved performance of
the Accountability Working Groups in Phnom Penh and in every province and the use of over 2,500
"accountability boxes" (for anonymous complaints/suggestions). To its credit the NCDDs promoted
the publication of all key project data on the NCDD website <www.ncdd.gov.kh>, including details
on contracts and disbursements as well as complaints. The accountability and safeguard systems
were improved in the last three years of the project. The NCDDs and its provincial ExCom made
good use of consultants, though this reliance and a lack of emphasis on knowledge-transfer has raised
concern about sustainability as other DPs begin to provide finance to ongoing activities..

(c) Justification for Overall Borrower Performance

 Rating: Satisfactory
The RGC was fully involved in project preparation and implementation and responded well to
supervision and MTR recommendations and consultant inputs. Performance improved overtime and
project procedures and practices have been institutionalized. Borrower performance was satisfactory
overall.

6. Lessons Learned

In efforts to establish systems and support participatory local planning and the implementation of
community sub-projects, managed directly by new C/S Councils with assistance and oversight from
local government, a number of key lessons have been learned.

a) Communes can identify local development priorities, and plan and implement community sub-
projects both efficiently and effectively. Communes have demonstrated that with appropriate
technical support and oversight, involving rigorous reviews and clearances, they can plan and
implement small sub-projects each year. (This was not widely appreciated when the project
commenced). With experience to date commune can manage much larger budgets under new systems
established in the 3 year implementation plan. Going forward however, commune investments still
need to be far better coordinated with larger sectoral investments. C/S Councils and their Planning
and Budgeting Committees need to engage more effectively with district administrations and
provincial line agencies to ensure complementarity among development investments, better quality
basic services, and routine maintenance of works constructed. The IP3 has rightly introduced greater
discretion in the use of the commune sangkat fund allowing communes to focus on meeting local
needs and invest in basic services and/or tertiary infrastructure.

b) Institutional capacity development is achieved most effectively through practical experience
and "learning by doing." After many years of commune planning and sub-project implementation,
including the procurement of small contractors, C/S councils and the communities they represent, are
better equipped to participate actively in local development efforts. National and provincial
governments are also better placed to manage these inter-governmental fiscal transfers and
investments and to report transparently through a web-based system on progress and problems
encountered. 100 to 125 full-time locally recruited UNDP consultants assisted low capacity sub-
national administrations to manage the C/SF and sub-projects. In addition well over 30,000 staff,
                                                 16
elected councilors and citizens were trained in various aspects of project planning and
implementation and good governance. The skills gained and the procedures put in place and formally
endorsed depended to a great extent on a project like this one with: (a) near national coverage and
annual repetition over a period of many years; (b) an innovative decentralized management approach;
(c) rigorous reviews for procurement, finances, safeguards; and (d) direct, on-budget funding for
investment. Sustainability of project results is therefore more probable.

c) Appropriate procedures should be utilized to balance varying levels of capacity with required
fiduciary controls and safeguards. The most common comments from clients, including commune
council members, concerned the time-consuming procurement reviews and safeguards clearances.
Nearly everyone—commune councilors, government officials and consultants—admitted that clear,
strict procedures were beneficial. However, now it may be appropriate to reduce the number of prior
reviews in favor of more post reviews and to carry out reviews on a risk-based approach in fewer,
selected locations. The most strident complaint regarding Bank prior reviews had to do with the
requirement that each province submit documentation at four steps during procurement for review
and that no other communes could progress until the first commune(s) received clearances. In many
cases sub-projects were only cleared for implementation at the start of the rainy season, and then
implementation had to be delayed until the dry season, the end of the government’s fiscal year,
resulting in delays of as much as 3-4 months. In the near future, it would be appropriate for RGC to
evaluate C/SF procedures with a view to simplification and the Bank should consider this in the
design of future operations.

d) Attention still needs to be given to improving participation, transparency, competitiveness and
accountability. While attendance of meetings was reasonably high (25-50%), the quality of
participation was passive throughout. Open tendering, with the combined opening of bids at the
district level, and public disclosure of C/SF information on the NCDD web-site were positive
developments, but more localized community participatory monitoring would have improved
oversight and community engagement. Accountability mechanisms minimize irregularities and have
increased trust in government. The AWGs and complaints handling mechanism in the latter years of
the project began to function better. All these efforts to improve participation, transparency and
accountability were gaining momentum as the project ended and need to be encouraged in the
handling of the C/SF. Good governance is not an afterthought to tertiary infrastructure sub-projects.

e) Working through country systems directly influences government policy and practice and better
ensures sustainability. The project design envisioned the establishment and development of country
systems and the project supported an on-going program of developing government systems that
continued to evolve over the life of the project. By working with newly elected C/S Councils,
supporting on-budget allocations to these councils, and investing in improving the capacity of local
government agencies to support C/F investments, the project had a more direct impact on the
workings of the C/S Councils and the utilization of their funds going forward. It enabled dialogue
between the RGC and the Bank regarding the establishment and workings of the commune councils
and the newly established district and provincial councils, as well as the broader D&D agenda. As
the project closed, the sustainability of these efforts were apparent in the roll-out of a program of
support to sub-national councils through the 3 year Implementation Plan for SNDD. Bank support to
the C/SF had helped to establish an RGC program of sub-national activity that, after 7 years, has
converged DP support.

Regarding these lessons learned, the Task Team was in agreement with the RGC's NCDD; all these
lessons were flagged in its own Project Completion Report (December 2010).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
                                                 17
Issues raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies both in the Project Completion Report and in
subsequent meetings as part of the ICR drafting process were regarding:

•   the investment "menu," which both by regulation and bias (type of technical support provided,
    use of contractors, etc.), is limited to tertiary infrastructure;
•   support from local technical offices, which is uneven and limited;
•   delays caused by the heavy emphasis on prior reviews;
•   human resources for project management, including special operating costs/incentives for
    government officials and the use of private sector contractors/consultants.

Communes identify all priority needs and not just infrastructure needs. Beginning by limiting
investments to infrastructure makes sense, but after a number of years it is appropriate to facilitate
the planning of commune-financed investments other than just tertiary infrastructure, at least in
selected locations, based on prior performance.

Doing so would open up more possibilities for engagement with local sectoral offices. The District
Integration Workshops (DIWs) involved over 80,000 persons. In 2008 alone, for example, over
60,000 commune priorities were submitted, resulting in almost 39,000 "temporary agreements" to
work together. Only about 40% of these directly responded to commune-identified priorities, but the
process directly linked citizens with government and dramatically increased transparency on sectoral
agency programs, even if "only" one-third of the discussed investments originated from commune
plans.

The Task Team agrees with the Borrower that the menu probably needs to be opened up and agrees
that discretion in the C/S fund is vital to sustainable improvements in local governance. During the
life of the project, it was probably necessary and proper to start “simple” and limit investment to
public goods, to tertiary infrastructure only.

Issues of timeliness in implementation, including the timeliness of disbursements, are a constant
theme in aide-memoirs and the reports of studies financed by the project. It is the Bank’s opinion
that although acceptable and extremely beneficial early on in the project, rigorous prior reviews
focusing on all or many individual sub-projects and safeguard clearances caused serious delays,
without significant value added. After systems are established and capacities and performance
improve, there should be a gradual shift to more post reviews, random or selected based on risk,
which would reduce implementation delays and not increase risks. A recent Bank fiduciary review
team recommended a progressive move to more post reviews, risk-based. "Reimbursement" should
be evaluated to allow for reimbursement and funding not of each very small individual sub-project
but of the portfolio of sub-projects.

The RGC, with assistance from development partners as necessary, needs to review its HR/civil
service policies, including the use of contracts/consultants and special operating costs and/or “salary
supplements,” to ensure sustainability. The Bank should not support policies that are not sustainable
without donor-financed projects, but recognizes and supports the need for covering incremental costs
of a project.

(b) Co-financiers

Development partners commented on four topics: (a) the overall success of the performance of the
commune councils, including support for the councils through RILGP; (b) the need to examine more
sustainable ways to provide technical support to commune councils and for their priority investments
that relies less on expat TA; (c) a way to channel funds using government systems that does not
cause unnecessary delays and that does not involve the same level of “micro-management” through

                                                  18
prior reviews which RILGP involved; and (d) the need to continue support for D&D and appreciation
for the Bank’s role in leading the efforts of development partners’ support for the RGC’s D&D
agenda.

The Bank agrees in general with the comments and concurs with the assessments of the performance
of the councils and the need for continued support for sub-national councils and their development
efforts and for the new district councils and sub-national technical agencies.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

NGOs commented on many areas but comments came back most often to the same three matters: (a)
the menu and the limitation of the project to infrastructure, in particular rural roads; (b) the timeliness
of the availability of funds (to avoid construction during the rainy season or busy periods for farmers;
and (c) the need to do much more to promote broad-based participation and popular control of the
councils, through public forums, community participatory monitoring, public announcements and
display of key project information.

The Bank agrees with these comments but notes that investments in tertiary infrastructure, especially
rural roads, are often the most preferred due to their “public good” characteristic. It is easier to plan
and manage small infrastructure projects when in the early stages of building local capacities and
testing systems and procedures; services demand more engagement with local technical offices,
which is not always easy to arrange. That said it is clear that more work is needed to make priorities
other than tertiary infrastructure real choices for communes to invest in.




                                                    19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (IDA fund only)
                                       Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage
          Components
                                          (USD millions)            (USD millions)         of
                                    Credit Grant(AF) Total     Credit Grant(AF) Total Appraisal
Local planning and investment         18.96     28.45     47.41 22.35      32.56 54.91 116%
Policy support and project
                                        3.04       7.80     10.84     1.63       3.83     5.46    50%
management
       Total Baseline Cost            22.00       36.25     58.25    23.98      36.39   60.37    104%

   (b) Project Cost by Component (including partners fund)
                                       Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage
          Components
                                          (USD millions)         (USD millions)         of
                                    Credit Grant(AF) Total  Credit Grant(AF) Total Appraisal
Local planning and investment         37.33     65.50 102.83 54.92      86.41 141.33 137%
Policy support and project
                                      24.83       62.70     87.53    14.39      19.85   34.24     39%
management
       Total Baseline Cost            62.16      128.29    190.36    69.31    106.26 175.57       92%

   (c) Financing
                                                            Appraisal
                                          Type of                           Actual      Percentage of
         Source of Funds                                    Estimate
                                        Co-financing                     (USD millions) Appraisal
                                                          (USD millions)
Borrower*                           Counterpart fund               24.39          31.46    129%
Borrower **                         Counterpart fund               74.73          55.73      75%
IDA*                                Loan                           22.00          23.98     109%
IDA**                               Grant                          36.25          36.39    100%
PLG (UNDP, DFID, SIDA)*             Grant for TA                   15.77          13.31      84%
PSDD (UNDP, DFID, SIDA)**           Grant for TA                   17.22          14.70      85%
            Total                                                190.36         175.57       92%

* for the original IDA Credit
** for the Additional Financing

The Credit (3747-KH) and the AF Grant (3260-KH) were approved in SDR and the figures at appraisal
shown above are base on the exchange rate at the time they were approved. It was US$ 1.37 for SDR 1 at the
time of the credit approval (2003) and it was US$ 1.52 for SDR 1 at the time of the AF Grant approval
(2007). The actual disbursed figures calculation applied the more recent exchange rate, US$ 1.59 for SDR 1
on 23 May 2011, which including some appreciation of US$ against SDR. This is the main cause of over
100% for the IDA budget.




                                                   20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Local Planning and Investment

•   Local Governance: The participatory formulation of multi-year Community Development Plans and
    annual Commune Investment Programs became routine practice in all communes/ sangkats of Cambodia
    as a result of this project. The Project Implementation Manual for the C/SF was adopted as official
    government procedures for any C/SF operation. The manual is still being used for the C/SF even though
    RILGP is now closed. It is also now used by other donor-funded projects in Cambodia.
•   Rural Investment: As these investments were community demand-driven, there was no target on the
    exact type, number or size for each category of output. In the end, more than 8,000 small scale
    infrastructure projects, constructed under the C/SF, have facilitated local economic growth and
    contributed to improving rural livelihoods. Although attribution to the RILGP is difficult, it is likely that
    the project significantly contributed to rural development and the reduction of poverty in rural Cambodia.



Summary of physical outputs:

            Physical outputs of C/S sub-projects financed by Units/Dimensions
                          RILGP, 2003-2010                                         Total Quantity




                                                      21
Summary of Outputs, by number of sub-projects or contracts:

        Sub-Project Category                              Sub-Projects Contracted by Year                   Total   % of
                                           2003   2004      2005 2006 2007 2008             2009    2010            total
# of communes covered by RILGP             598    980       1061 1061 1061 1,545            1,545   1,545
Transportation (roads & bridges)           467    740       722     744    626     1,168    1,308   635     6,410   76.98%
Irrigation and flood protection            117    206       248     198     134     167      169     48     1,287   15.46%
Water Supply                               120     89        60      33      22      28       23     2       377    4.53%
Education                                   47     43        37      34     12       12       16     7       208    2.50%
Health and Sanitation                        6      6         2       7       1       1        1     2       26     0.31%
Community Buildings                          3      5         2       2       0       5        0     0       17     0.20%
Natural Resource Management                  1      0         0       0       0       0        1     0        2     0.02%
                                   Total   761    1,089     1,071   1,018   795   1,381     1,518   694     8,327    100%

Component 2: Policy Support and Project Management. With this component, the RILGP made important
contributions to both strengthening institutions and the development of government policies related to not
only the planning and management of C/SF at the commune level but more broadly the decentralization and
deconcentration reform in Cambodia.

Project Management and Institutional Support:

•     Civil works, equipment and material were provided to strengthen the capacity of the institutions
      concerned with decentralization and the management of the C/SF. A total of 13 PRDC/ ExCom buildings
      were rehabilitated or constructed (in 13 provinces) by the end of 2009. The equipment provided to
      NCDDs and the 23 provincial ExCom offices included 20 vehicles, 717 motorcycles, 12 boats, 137
      computers and printers, two laptops, 29 photocopiers, 85 scanners, 24 air conditioners, three generators,
      equipment for construction design and supervision of rural engineering works (31 auto levels, 37
      penetrometers, 10 concrete testing hammers, and GPSs), other office equipment (cameras, voice
      recorders, etc.) and office furniture.
•     Operational costs were also provided under component 2 in support of the strengthening of the NCDD
      capacity for coordination and operation. The operational funds provided also contributed to improving
      the performance of the complaint handling system, including the AWGs and the NCDD’s safeguard
      monitoring mechanism.

Policy Support: The project financed some 44 significant studies and consultancies to improve project
management and establish and strengthen systems, procedures, manuals and the capacity of the main
institutions concerned with decentralized management of the C/SF. The project was able to feed ideas based
on actual experience into the ongoing policy debate and directly contributed to the development of the
National Program for Sub-National Development (NP-SNDD). These contributions have helped to shape the
future of Cambodia’s local governance institutions and rural development and will still beneficial to this
country for many years to come.

No.      Name of Study / Consultancy
1        Evaluation of the Effectiveness of the Technical Support Units
2        Provincial Budget Study and Knowledge
3        Attitudes, Practices, Beliefs Follow-up Study
4        Audit of RILGP Accounts for 2003-2004
5        Mid-Term Review for RILGP 2006
6        Process Audit of the Planning Process (1)
7        Technical Audit of Sub-project Outputs (1)
8        Socio-Economic Baseline Study
9        Socio-Economic Impact Survey (follow up survey)
10       Study on Internal Functioning of Provinces (Decentralization and Deconcentration)
11       Study of the Accountability Framework Surrounding the C/SF
12       Study of the District Planning Initiative
13       Study of the Technical Assistance Arrangements for CS Fund (with MRD).
                                                            22
No.   Name of Study / Consultancy
14    Assessment of the Effectiveness of Safeguard Mechanism for Land Users and Environment
15    Study of C/SF Accountability Working Groups
16    Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation of C/S Road Funds
17    End-of-Project Evaluation (for Credit Component)
18    Revision of Technical Manual and Templates for C/S Fund
19    C/SF Budget Execution Study
20    Citizen’s Engagement in C/S Budget Cycle
21    M&E Baseline Study
22    Process Audit on Implementation (1)
23    Follow-up Study on Accountability Working Group
24    M&E Baseline (follow up on 2003)
25    Support for the Formulation and Preparation of the National Program for SNDD
26    NGO Support for Strengthening Public Awareness of Land Use Rights in C/S Fund Activities
27    International Study on Complaints Investigation and Resolution
28    Process Audit on Implementation of C/S Fund Projects (2)
29    Mid Term Review for RILGP-AF 2010
30    Technical Audit of C/S Fund Infrastructure Projects (2)
31    NGO Safeguard Monitoring (by regions): Coastal, Central Northeast, Northwest.
32    Design a Pilot for Technical Support to Small Scale Infrastructure Project
33    Process Audit on the Planning of C/SF (2)
34    Pilot of Technical Services for C/SF Infrastructure Works
35    Awareness Raising on 10 year National Program for D&D
36    Finalization of Environmental and Highland People Watch-Lists
37    NGO Environmental Campaign
38    IT Support Project Generator
39    Citizen Rating Report
40    Raising Awareness Regarding Accountability Boxes
41    Design for a Complaint Investigation Handbook for AWG and Assessment of PAWG
42    Small Contractors Study
43    Local Functional Assignment for Provision and Management of Small-Scale Rural
      Infrastructure
44    End-of-project evaluation/ Project Completion Report




                                                 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(Including assumptions in the analysis)

Project benefits and expected returns in the PAD

The PAD economic analysis is based on calculating the EIRR for the three assumed main types of sub-
projects expected to be supported by the commune funds; roads, small scale irrigation and water supply
projects. These EIRR were calculated as 84%, 98% and 14% respectively. An overall project EIRR was then
calculated based on the three sub-projects’ EIRRs, weighted by each sub-project’s expected share of total
projects. Two separate weightings were done, one based on previous experience with the Seila Program
(resulting in an overall estimated project EIRR of 74%) and one based on the expressed preferences of
would-be beneficiaries (resulting in a project EIRR of 64%). A financial analysis was only carried out for
irrigation sub-projects, as this was the only investment with a cash flow attributable to individual farms.

In the PAD, adjustments were made for economic prices of labor and the economic value of time for adults
and children. In the analysis of the irrigation projects, economic prices were calculated for key inputs and
outputs, such as rice, fertilizer and labor. Economic prices for tradable were based on border parity prices
expressed as farm-gate prices, with adjustments for domestic transport and marketing costs. The economic
prices here are net of duties and taxes, and interest payments are excluded from the economic calculations.
For neither sub-project type is there any evidence to suggest that construction costs or travel costs were
adjusted to economic prices.

The main economic benefits resulting from the transportation projects are assumed to be savings in vehicle
operating costs and savings in time. For communal irrigation improvements the analysis assumes benefits
will come in the form of increased yields, increased cultivable area and increased cropping intensity. The full
incremental value of production, including home consumption, is considered to be a benefit. Finally the
analysis of communal water supply projects considers benefits in terms of savings in time for water
transportation. The analysis suggests that the benefits calculated represent a lower bound, as other benefits
such as reduction in incidence of water borne diseases due to improved potable water supply are not included
in the calculation.

Most of the assumptions used for the analysis are derived from the “LDF Impact Study” (Study into the
Socio-Economic Impact of the Local Development Fund/Local Planning Process 1996-2000) conducted in
2000/2001 for the Seila Program.

Main limitations

There is one major immediate limitation in the way the PAD economic analysis was carried out. In the
aggregation of overall project EIRRs from sub-project EIRRs, project implementation costs are not taken into
account. Considering that, depending on assumptions, implementation costs may represent up to half of the
total project costs, their absence from the analysis will have contributed to greatly overstating the overall
project EIRRs calculated. Naturally, part of project costs not linked to sub-projects represent investments in
institutional capacity of decentralized administrations which will allow sub-projects to be financed beyond
the project life. Such costs can be excluded. However, excluding all implementation costs is far too optimistic
since some of these are necessary for implementing sub-projects during the life of RILGP, namely costs
associated with facilitation, selection of proposals, processing of financing, monitoring of construction and so
on.

Roads
The analysis of the road projects does not specify the productive life of the project, which significantly
impacts the benefit stream. There is also no evidence of adjusting construction costs or travel costs to
economic prices. Maintenance costs are mentioned, but there are no details on what percentage they are and
how often maintenance will be carried out.

In analyzing the assumed impact of the road projects, the data used from the LDF survey asks only about
trips to the market, pagoda, school, and health center and does not ask about any agricultural traffic such as
travel to the fields or to other areas of employment. In a 2004 research paper (Abrams, 2004) it is found that
agricultural-related travel makes up two-thirds or more of total travel on village roads.
                                                      24
Irrigation
Assumptions for the irrigation sub-projects include a project life of 20 years, but no maintenance costs are
mentioned in the analysis. Rehabilitation, when mentioned, refers to rehabilitation projects as opposed to
construction of new irrigation schemes. When compared with the results of the Aruna impact evaluation
which looks into 25 irrigation schemes supported under the RILGP project (Aruna 2006: Socio-Economic
Impact Evaluation of C/SF Irrigation projects), this seems highly unlikely. Further, the analysis uses the
average cost from Seila of USD 3,159 per investment and an average cost per beneficiary of USD 3.64 in
2001 prices, resulting in 867 beneficiaries anticipated per irrigation sub-project. It is not clear whether
beneficiaries mean beneficiary households or total household members but conservatively assuming the latter
and an average household size of five, this calculates to 174 beneficiary households. According to the LDF
Impact Study the average cultivated area per beneficiary household was 2.6 hectares, yielding a total
cultivated area per investment of 451 hectares. If this is a correct reading of the assumptions for the analysis,
it means irrigation rehabilitation sub-projects cost USD 7 per hectare which seems very optimistic at the
least.

Water Supply
The main limitation in the analysis of the water supply sub-projects is the estimation of the investment cost.
An average sub-project is estimated to cost USD 1,021 in 2003 prices or USD 1,685 in constant 2010 prices.
Abrams (2004) estimated the average value of similar C/S Fund projects at USD 3,757 in 2003 or USD 6,198
in constant 2010 prices. A further limitation is the estimation of periodic maintenance costs which are
estimated at 2% of the initial investment. Depending on the type of well, periodic maintenance costs could
vary in the range of 0% - 23% according to Abrams’ evaluation. The average number of beneficiary
households is 39. This estimate is potentially too optimistic compared to experience with other wells, namely
what is given in Abrams (2004) where ring wells have an average of 11 users, VN6 wells 10, Afridev wells
31 and mixed wells 12 user households.

Economic analysis of Additional Financing

Following the above assessment of the PAD economic analysis, it is not surprising that the project paper for
additional financing presented significantly lower estimates of sub-projects’ EIRR. Transportation projects
were assessed to have EIRRs in the range of 25-40% if roads are well maintained, but below 12% if
maintenance is not carried out as planned. According to project paper estimates, most small scale irrigation
projects have EIRR above 20%, although some projects suffered from technical capacity problems and failed
to achieve their objectives. The water supply projects have marginally acceptable EIRR of 10-15%. These
projects too were considered to be sensitive to maintenance being carried out as planned. Unfortunately it is
not known what data and models were used for such estimates of EIRR at the time of the additional financing
request (as only the final rates are presented). Finally, regarding overall project EIRR, the project paper for
additional financing does not present an overall EIRR for the project, and no reference is made to
implementation costs.

Impact Studies of Sub-Projects

Studies assessing the impact of C/S Funds have been carried out for roads and irrigation sub-projects (Aruna
2006: Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation of C/SF Irrigation projects and Cadtis 2009: Socio-Economic
Impact Evaluation of C/SF Road projects). These provide some insight into economic benefits, but are likely
to be of limited use due to issues with sampling and insufficient data collection. Moreover, neither studies
attempts to calculate any EIRR for the projects due to insufficient data.

Research conducted early in the project (Abrams, 2004) provides a cost benefit analysis of small scale rural
road and well projects initiated in 2003 with support from C/SF, based on household interview data. Benefits
from road projects were assumed to come from reduced vehicle operating costs (VOC) and time savings. For
VOC, fuel and maintenance is assumed not to vary whereas fixed costs such as capital charges and
depreciation would be reduced due to an increase in speed as road conditions improve. Data for agricultural
and non-agricultural travel was analyzed for both the wet and the dry season. If projects received timely
maintenance, the paper estimates EIRRs of 25% and 10% for roads and wells respectively. Without
maintenance, EIRR falls to unacceptable levels for both types, ie 6% and -3% for roads and wells
respectively.
                                                       25
The economic evaluation of laterite roads undertaken by the Ministry of Rural development and Seila Task
Force Secretariat shares most of the assumptions of the above mentioned study by Abrams, but bases its
analysis on observations, and ends up using higher values for traffic data relative to Abrams approach of
household interviews. All costs were converted to economic prices using a conversion factor of 0.85. Travel
costs are converted using a conversion factor of 0.92. Benefits are derived from reduced journey costs and
traffic generated by the project. Costs are calculated with estimates of VOC, vehicle fixed costs and traveler
time values. The study finds significant variation between the eight randomly selected projects (10 projects
were originally selected but there was sufficient data only for eight), with EIRRs ranging from above 70% to
negative. The average rate is 33%, weighted by sub-project costs. This model would be considered slightly
less conservative than Abrams’ in terms of traffic data, which could explain some of the difference in
economic returns.

The mid-term reviews of RILGP did not make a direct effort to quantify the project’s costs and benefits, but
they did assess evidence of benefits namely by looking at the two studies above and also at a study carried
out by the Asian Development Bank on support for the transport sector in Vietnam, which shows that the
estimated economic internal rate of return of transport projects in Vietnam from 1993-2008 was 22.3% for
provincial roads.

ICR Estimation Methodology

There were significant challenges in re-estimating the economic benefits and costs of RILGP for the ICRR.
First there was no access to the original cost tables or detailed calculations of the PAD and Project Paper
economic analysis. Second, there was limited data on outputs and benefits from the sub-projects contracted as
per the studies conducted and the overall M&E system. Finally, no field work was carried out prior to this
review. Hence a conventional cost benefit analysis could not be carried out for the individual sub-projects. In
particular, one that would be based on a statistically representative sample of RILGP financed sub-projects by
type and that would compare levels of key evaluation drivers (such as traffic, VOC, etc.) without major
assumptions at all levels.

The ICR analysis therefore uses an alternative approach mainly focused on the existing studies on C/S Funds
sub-projects, which usually report on EIRRs for the different types of sub-projects. Such studies include the
PAD, additional financing and mid-term review papers, impact evaluation reports and other studies of similar
rural infrastructure projects. The objective was to obtain a range of sub-project EIRRs by type and understand
to the extent possible differences in underlying assumptions that result in such returns. Secondly the ICR
analysis used project implementation data on timing and costs of sub-projects by type and calculates average
sub-project economic investment costs (based on total number of sub-projects financed by type).

With the estimated average sub-project investment costs for irrigation, transportation and wells, an annual
equivalent of a constant economic benefit from a typical project can be estimated given a certain sub-project
life and an EIRR. This is then aggregated for the total number of sub-projects in each year taking into
consideration their useful economic life. Finally the aggregated cost and benefit streams for each of these
sub-project types can be combined with the estimated project support costs to calculate an overall RILGP
EIRR.

To estimate overall project implementation costs, it was assumed that a large portion of the RILGP
Component 2 expenditures went towards project implementation whereas the remainder would be considered
preparation for future benefits (i.e., capacity that will also benefit sub-projects to be implemented after the
project closed). Specifically it is assumed that 100% of expenditures on civil works, goods and operating
costs could be considered project implementation costs, as could 50% of expenditures on consulting services
(the remainder of the budget for consulting services was used for studies etc.). It was further assumed that the
proportion of each expenditure category to total component 2 costs was approximately the same in each
project year. This was used to estimate RILGP project implementation costs per project year.

In addition to RILGP supported implementation costs of sub-projects, RGC was also supporting sub-project
implementation through administration costs (mainly salaries of staff used in facilitation, screening and
implementation supervision of sub-projects). These costs were not part of RILGP but a share of them should
be included in the analysis as they are also associated with the sub-projects implemented through RILGP. As
                                                      26
for the RGC portion of sub-project implementation costs, it was assumed that the administration component
of RGC expenditure would benefit all C/S Fund projects equally and that an average administration cost per
project would be applicable also for RILGP reimbursed sub-projects. Hence RGC sub-project administration
support could be estimated by project year based on number of RILGP reimbursed projects. However,
following discussions with project staff and a review of the general implementation strategy, it is likely that
no more than 25% of the administration expenditures by RGC could be considered RILGP implementation
costs. This is thus the figure used in the estimation of total implementation costs in the base case scenario for
this analysis.

All annual costs were adjusted to constant 2010 prices and relevant expenditure categories were adjusted to
taxation at a rate of 10% to derive economic costs.

Range of individual sub-project returns

Several scenarios can be constructed for the purpose of economic analysis. This is done by reviewing studies
and evaluations of similar projects and establishing a range of quoted EIRRs for the three main sub-project
types. These are presented in the table below.

Table 1: EIRR for rural infrastructure sub-projects
Document                                                   EIRR for road      EIRR for              EIRR for water
                                                           projects           irrigation projects   supply projects
Additional financing paper (2007) a/                       25-40%             20%                   10-15%
Julian Abrams (2004) a/                                    25%                -                     10%
Projects with maintenance
Julian Abrams (2004) a/                                    6%                 -                     -3%
Projects without maintenance
Ministry of Rural development /Seila Task Force (2004)     33%                -                     -
a/
ADB (2009) Support for transport sector in Vietnam         20.3%              -                     -
evaluation b/
Cambodia Agriculture Public Expenditure Review (2010)      11.8-21.5%         18-32%                -
CBAPP preliminary Economic Analysis (2010) c/              16 – 22%           36%                   -
a/ Refers to sub-projects of similar size and investment costs relative to RILGP sub-projects
b/ Refers to provincial road projects
c/ Investments envisioned under CBAPP are larger in scale and cost relative to RILGP sub-projects. Also this draft
analysis used field observations and prices for commodities in 2010 with substantially higher output prices relative to
studies conducted in 2004.

Particularly in the case of irrigation it is likely that projects have seen higher returns than what is captured in
this table mainly due to increased prices for paddy over recent years. This is for example captured in the
CBAPP economic analysis, which is based on 2010 commodity prices.

Economic Returns at ICR

As anticipated in the PAD, table 2 shows that the three sub-project types analyzed do make up the bulk of
investments under RILGP. A slightly higher proportion of the cost went to rural roads projects than suggested
in the PAD, whereas water projects made up a smaller share. Overall, however, actual investments through
the Commune Sangkat funds financed under RILGP follow approximately the investment trend observed
under the Seila Program.

Table 2: RILGP investments in sub-projects – PAD vs ICR (as % of total sub-project costs)
Sub-project type          PAD share weighted by       PAD share weighted by         Actual implementation
                          Seila costs                 rank in Social Assessment     figures (ICR) a/
Roads                     67%                         36%                           76%
Irrigation                15%                         29%                           16%
Water                     17%                         35%                           5%
Total                     100%                        100%                          97%


                                                          27
a/ The total is 97% at implementation as, for comparison purposes (with PAD) we are excluding other social sub-
projects that were financed during implementation but not taken into account at appraisal. The figures are derived from
the latest RILGP financial reporting in 2011.

Assuming that the sub-projects under RILGP will be maintained, EIRRs for irrigation, roads and water
supply and other projects are assumed to be 20%, 25% and 10% respectively. The project life of each of these
projects is assumed to be 10 years. These are values for the EIRR similar to what Abrams got in his 2004
review of 2003 C/S Funds. An EIRR of 25% for road projects is quite average compared to the other findings
listed in table 1. The estimate for irrigation is slightly conservative compared to the values listed above, given
that commodity prices are now higher but it also reflects the fact that these investments are usually more
risky in terms of achieving desired returns. The final EIRR for water supply and other projects of 10% is also
in line with the findings presented in Table 1.

When including the project support costs for the base case estimated as outlined above (i.e., including 25% of
estimated RGC administrative costs in addition to the estimated RILGP implementation costs), the analysis
yields an overall project EIRR of 18% and a NPV of US$ 11.5 million using a 12% discount rate. By sub-
project type and ignoring overall project implementation costs, this scenario yields positive net present values
at a 12% discount rate for the irrigation and road projects, whereas water supply and other projects have a
negative net present value.

Table 3: Estimated returns to RILGP sub-projects
Sub-project type                                                    EIRR                 NPV (at 12% discount rate)
                                                                                         (US$ ‘000)
Irrigation                                                          20%                  $1,976
Roads                                                               25%                  $15,534
Water supply and other                                              10%                  -$364
Overall project with World Bank project support costs and 25%       18%                  $11,474
of estimated RGC support costs

Sensitivity of results

The base case scenario assumes that projects are successful and remain operational. From Abrams (2004) it
was found that without maintenance road projects yielded an EIRR of 6%, and water supply project an EIRR
of -3%. Keeping all other assumptions of the base case constant but assuming no maintenance of roads yields
an overall project EIRR of 6%. Secondly, adjusting only for no maintenance of water supply projects yields
an overall project EIRR of 17%.

Taking also into consideration the finding from the Aruna study that only around 43% of irrigation projects
were fully operational 3 years after the initial investment, a scenario with a significantly lower sub-project
EIRR for irrigation can be constructed. If an EIRR for irrigation of 10% is chosen, this brings the overall
project EIRR to 11%.

The likelihood of any of these scenarios being fully realized is low, but it is useful to consider the likelihood
(and impact) of a combination of sub-projects performing below par. This exercise also shows that the project
is most sensitive to changes in the return to road projects, which is not surprising given the share of road
projects out of total sub-project investments.

Other scenarios tested included not accounting for any project implementation costs, as was done in the PAD
economic analysis. This yields an EIRR of 22%, which is still significantly lower than the PAD estimates of
64% and 74%, for reasons explored below.

Reasons for lower returns

The PAD estimates overall project EIRR to lie in the range of 64% and 74%. This is likely an overly
optimistic outcome. In the ICR analysis, the EIRR is estimated at 18% in the base case scenario. One key
factor explaining the difference between these two estimates is the failure to account for project
implementation costs associated with the sub-projects in the PAD economic analysis, but as shown above this
can only account for part of the difference. The EIRR of the PAD is also likely to be overestimated due to the
long duration of productive life of projects chosen, and underestimation of investment and maintenance costs
                                                          28
for the sub-projects. For the irrigation projects maintenance costs appear to be omitted despite an estimated
productive life of the investment of 20 years, which seems unrealistic. The assumptions made about benefits
are also in excess of what can reasonably be expected from individual investments on such a small scale. This
appears to be particularly true in the case of irrigation where 867 beneficiaries are expected to benefit from a
scheme with an average cost of USD 3,159 and a unit cost of USD 7 per hectare.

The base case scenario is much closer to the values assumed in the project additional financing paper, which
has likely taken into account the impact studies conducted since RILGP initiation.


REFERENCES

Julian Abrams (2004): An Economic Evaluation of Decentralized Rural Infrastructure Investments in
Cambodia.

ADB (2009): Support for transport sector in Vietnam evaluation.

Aruna (2006): Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation of C/S Fund Irrigation Projects

Cadtis (2009): Socio-Economic Evaluation of C/S Fund Roads Projects

Mokoro (2010): Cambodia Agriculture, irrigation and rural roads expenditure review.

MRD and STFs (2004): Economic Evaluation of Laterite Roads supported by C/SF in 2003.

World Bank Project Paper on a proposed additional financing grant RILGP.




                                                      29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

    (C) Task Team members
                                                                                        Responsibility/
          Name                           Title                      Unit
                                                                                          Specialty
                                                        Lending
Denis Robitaille         Manager                                  LCSDE      Task Manager
Robert R. Taliercio      Lead Economist                           EASPR      Economist
Kostner Markus           Social Development Sector Leader         EASER      Social
Jennifer Thomson         Manager, Financial Management           SARFM       Financial
Roland White             Lead Urban Specialist                   SASDU       Social
Gillian M. Brown         Senior Gender Specialist               EASSO-HIS    Social

                                                     Supervision/ICR
Janelle Plummer          Senior Governance Specialist                EASTS   TTL from Feb 2010
Louise Scura             Sector Leader                               AFTAR   TTL to end Jan 2010
Munichan Kung            Rural Development Officer                   EASTS   Operation, ICR Team Leader
Victor Bottini           Consultant                                  EASID   ICR Main Author
Daniel R. Gibson         Lead Social Development Specialist          ECAVP   Social Safeguards
Mudita Chamroeun         Senior Rural Development Specialist         EASTS   Rural Development (before Oct 2008)
Susan S. Shen            Operations Advisor                          OPCIL   Environmental Safeguards
Bunlong Leng             Environmental Specialist                    EASTS   Environmental Safeguards (Jan 2010)
Kannathee Danaisawat     Financial Management Specialist             EAPFM   Financial Management
Seida Heng               Financial Management Specialist             EAPFM   Financial Management
Ahsan Ali                Senior Procurement Specialist               EAPPR   Procurement
Oithip Mongkolsawat      Senior Procurement Specialist               EAPPR   Procurement
Latharo Lor              Procurement Specialist                      EAPPR   Procurement Assistant
Sokunthea Sok            Procurement Assistant                       EAPCO   Procurement/Post Review
Lars C. Lund             Consultant                                  EASVS   Social, Operation
John Richardson          Consultant                                  SASFP   Good Governance, Operation
Erman A. Rahman          Operations Officer                          EASIS   Operations
Peng Seng Tan            Program Assistant                           EACSF   Operations (after Mar 2010)
Amara Khiev              Program Assistant                           EACSF   Operations (before Jan 2010)
Roland White             Lead Urban Specialist                       SASDU   Social
Robert R. Taliercio      Lead Economist                              EASPR   Economist
Ratha Sann               Road Engineer                               EASTS   Rural Infrastructure

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                        USD Thousands (including travel
                                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                                                   and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                   7                               40.69
  FY02                                                  42                              186.81
  FY03                                                  23                              140.41
  FY04                                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                                    0.00
                                     Total:             72                              367.91
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                                                                      0.01

                                                       30
 FY04                                              14                               84.49
 FY05                                              18                               83.81
 FY06                                              14                               70.58
 FY07                                              14                               62.31
 FY08                                              27                               61.33
 FY 09                                             43                              111.48
 FY 10                                             40                              127.09
 FY 11                                             28                               66.62
                                Total:            198                              667.71

(c) Project Key Events
                              Key Events                                              Date
Identification Mission                                                     November 3-14, 2000
Concept Review Meeting                                                     August 30, 2001
Preparation Mission                                                        October 1-12, 2001
Decision Meeting                                                           December 19, 2002
Appraisal Mission - PAD Preparation                                        January 13-25, 2003
Negotiations                                                               March 9, 2003
Project Appraisal Document - Final                                         March 27, 2003
Board Approval                                                             April 22, 2003
Development Credit Agreement Signing                                       June 18, 2003
Credit Effectiveness                                                       September 16, 2003
Fiduciary Review (1st)                                                     July-October 2004
Safeguards Mission (1st)                                                   November 4-6, 2004
Mid-Term Review Mission (1st)                                              December 2005
Additional Financing (effectiveness)                                       August 14, 2007
Restructuring: Change IA from Seila Task Force to National Committee for   February 7, 2007
Management of Decentralization and Deconcentration Reform (NCDD)
Original Closing Date                                                      December 31, 2007
Restructuring: Change IA’s name from National Committee for Management     January 27, 2009
of Decentralization and Deconcentration Reform (NCDD) to National
Committee for Democratic Development at Sub-national Level (NCDD)
Fiduciary Review (2nd)                                                     August 18, 2009
Mid-Term Review (2nd)                                                      December 11, 2009
Restructuring: Reallocation of Financing Proceeds                          June 28, 2010
Implementation Completion Report-- Borrower’s Mission                      December 2010
Actual Closing Date                                                        December 31, 20111
Implementation Completion and Results Report—Bank Mission                  February 28 - March 11, 2011




                                                 31
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

None required or done for this “core” ICR.




                                             32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

This is a "core ICR" and no formal beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were conducted for the
preparation of the ICR, though numerous interviews and meetings with stakeholders and government
officials at the national and provincial levels were held. Commune councilors were consulted. Co-financiers
(SIDA) and NGOs (four, one of which is an international NGO, a sub-contractor to the NCDD) were also
consulted. Numerous beneficiary surveys were conducted as part of project implementation. Input from these
interviews, meetings, visits, studies and surveys were utilized in the preparation of this ICR. Two of the
NCDD Advisers joined the ICR team during the field visits and participated in the meetings at the province
and commune level.

Meetings
   1. NCDDs Project Manager and team: This is the team that manages the RILGP implementation on
       behalf of Implementing Agency, NCDD. This meeting was the ICR mission kick off.
       - H.E. Ngan Chamroeun, RILGP Project Manager and Deputy Director General of MOI (chaired)
       - Mr. Tuy Pheap, RILGP Coordination Adviser
       - Mr. Chhun Bunara, Engineer
       - Mr. Tuy Pov, Safeguards Officer

   2. MEF: According to a suggestion from the Department of International Cooperation (DIC), two
      separate meetings were arranged with MEF representatives. One meeting was with the DIC, WB
      Division, which manages the WB portfolio on behalf of RGC/MEF. The other meeting was with the
      Department of Local Finance, which manages and coordinates the state budget for all sub-national
      level activities/agencies.
      - Local Finance Department team: Mr. Liv Bun Hay and Mr. Chan Thy.
      - DIC/WB Division team: Mr. Chan Kresna Tauch, Mr. Yang Sy, and Ms. Saro Thin.

   3. Project Partners and Co-Financers:
      - SIDA: Mr. Thomas Kjellson, Country Representative.
      - PSDD Management: Mr. Scott Leiper, Mr. Hans van Zoggel, Mr. Ruud Corsel.
      - PSDD Advisory Team: All Senior Provincial Advisers of the 24 provinces and some key
         advisers at the national level.

   4. NGOs:
      - PACT: Mr. Sophal Chhor
      - SILKA: Ms. Thida Khus, Secretary General
      - CCSP: Ms. Sokhany Prak, Executive Director
      - API: Mr. Socheat Lam, Deputy Director.

   5. Provincial Agencies:
      - Pursat ExCom: Houng Hong (ExCom Permanent Member), Seth Chamroeun (Infrastructure
         Adviser), Nget Song (Provincial Treasury), Choup Kimlong (Contract Administration Unit),
         Khem Yarin (M&E Adviser), Thim Sotheara (Chief of Technical Support Unit), Ken Kan (Chief
         of Local Administration Unit)
      - Battambang ExCom: Tieu Chulong (ExCom Permanent Member), Dy Pov (TSU), Chim
         Roeungvith (CAU), Moul Thon (LAU), Lach Navaksathya (Treasury), Cheng Bunlong (TSR),
         Hou Sophyra (Finance Adviser), Cheang Kuyhy (LAA), Chhun Dy (LAA), Thou Vannak
         (SPPA), Doeuk Virak (FU), Tor Horn (CAU)
      - H.E. El Say, Deputy Provincial Governor.

   6. Commune Councils:
      - Group meeting with 5 Sangkat Chiefs from Battambang town: Mr. Sok San (Sangkat Prek Preah
        Sdach), Mr. Sam Ton (Sangkat Svay Por), Mr. Yos Moeun (Sangkat Ratanak), Mr. Kim Chhong
        (Sangkat O’Char), and Mr. Sok Chhoeuk (Sangkat Wat Kor)
      - Meeting the entire Commune Council of O’Taki commune.




                                                    33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
(;(&87,9( 6800$5< 2) 7+( 5,/*3 352-(&7 &203/(7,21 5(3257
By NCDD, December 2010

BACKGROUND
The Rural Investment and Local Governance Project (RILGP) was a national project which provided
Commune-level investment support for priority infrastructure and public goods, and helped to strengthen
local institutions and decentralised governance systems in the context of a country continuing to rebuild itself
after decades of conflict. The project was co-financed by the Royal Government of Cambodia (RGC), World
Bank, and two projects co-funded by UNDP, SIDA and DfID (the Partnership for Local Governance (PLG)
and its successor the Project to Support Democratic Development through Decentralisation and
Deconcentration (PSDD)). The project ran from 2003 to the end of 2010.

By 2003, government policy for decentralisation and deconcentration had been well established through its
Seila programme, the PLG programme had been set up and was providing Technical Assistance and other
support, the first Organic Law had been enacted, and elected Commune Councils provided genuine local
government. The need for rural infrastructure and other public goods was still high and the structures for
managing investment were in place. These included the Commune / Sangkat (C/S) Fund, the C/S Fund
“Project Implementation Manual” (PIM) including procedures for the entire project cycle and for managing
investment funds.

PROJECT DESIGN
The development objective of the RILGP was to “contribute to rural development and poverty reduction
efforts through provision of priority infrastructure and public goods at the commune level; and strengthening
of decentralized participatory local governance systems”. The project was implemented through two strongly
linked components. The “local planning and investment” component concerned the participatory
development of Commune plans and the provision of grant financing through the government’s C/S Fund for
eligible infrastructure and public goods sub-projects identified through those plans. The “policy support and
project management” component aimed to strengthen the institutions and governance systems relating to
the operation of the C/S Fund, and contribute to the development of policy relating to decentralisation,
deconcentration and democratic development (see Figure 2). The project expanded its geographic coverage
from 7 Provinces in 2003 to cover 23 of the 24 provinces (excluding Phnom Penh) by 2008.

The main beneficiaries were the communities which benefited from different investment projects, the
Commune Councilors and staff, provincial department staff working with the project and the private sector
contractors / companies that were able to secure contracts. The total number of beneficiaries has been
estimated at over 4 million (PID).

The RILGP was implemented and managed through existing government institutions and did not create any
new project structures. The project was initially housed within and implemented by the national Seila
program Secretariat, which was succeeded by the National Committee for the Management of
Decentralization and Deconcentration Secretariat (NCDDS) in 2006 / 07. The Commune Councils and their
Planning and Budget Committees were the main institutions at Commune level, and the Executive
Committee of the Provincial Rural Development Committees at provincial level. The PLG / PSDD provided
around 8 national and 102 sub-national TA advisors to support these institutions. The sub-national TA
advisors were based at the provincial ExComs in order to support the Communes in participatory planning
and the operation of the C/S Fund. The WB IDA Grant was used to provide an additional 4 national and 4
regional TA advisors.

FINANCING AND EXPENDITURE
The financing plan is shown in the table below. The RGC provided all the funding for the C/S Fund (with
some of this being reimbursed by the IDA Credit and Grant) and other general operating costs of government
departments. Around 82% of the WB funding was for the reimbursement of eligible sub-project grants for
priority rural infrastructure under component 1. The PLG and PSDD provided the main source of Technical
Assistance and some program / operating costs for the concerned institutions (around $27 USD millions).
This had the main aim of supporting the functioning of the C/S Fund and developing capacity. Local
communities also contributed to the C/S Fund sub-projects through cash and in-kind contributions.
                                                           34
                                                                                               (USD millions)
                                           2003 - 07               2007 - 10               Total         %
RGC                                                  24.39                  74.73            99.12      52%
World Bank IDA Credit and Grant          IDA Credit: 22.00       IDA Grant: 36.25            58.25      31%
PLG / PSDD                                    PLG: 15.77            PSDD: 17.22              32.99      17%
Total                                                62.16                 128.20           190.36     100%
Source: Programme Appraisal Document (WB 2003) and Additional Financing paper (WB 2007).

The total expenditure from RGC, WB and PLG / PSDD funds is summarised in the table below. The main
RGC contribution was around USD 78,516,272 for the C/S Fund (Development and Administration
Components) in the project-supported provinces (net of the IDA Credit / Grant reimbursement) and some
unspecified operating costs of relevant government departments. A total of 90% of the IDA Credit / Grant
expenditure (USD 48,937,169) was used for reimbursements and the rest for Component 2 costs. The PLG /
PSDD contribution was around 50% for TA costs and 50% for programme support.
                                                                                                 (USD)
RGC: estimated contribution:                                                                         Total RGC
Net RGC contribution to C/S Fund (Admin & Devpt) in RILGP supported provinces:                      78,516,272
RGC “counterpart funding” for RILGP “Civil Works” and “Operating costs”                                  76,586
General operating costs of government departments paid for by government:                          Not recorded
not recorded separately for the RILGP                                                                separately
World Bank: IDA Credit and Grant                       IDA Credit     IDA Grant            Total WB        %
Component 1: Local planning and investment.             19,731,623     29,205,546          48,937,169      90%
Component 2: Policy support and project mgmt.            1,498,171      4,126,112           5,624,284      10%
              Total expenditure from WB funding:        21,229,794     33,331,658          54,561,453     100%
PLG / PSDD costs                                              PLG           PSDD                 Total       %
TA Advisor Costs                                         6,033,725      7,597,199          13,630,924      50%
Program Support                                          6,309,053      7,103,388          13,412,441      50%
                         Total PLG / PSDD support       12,342,778     14,700,587          27,043,365     100%

IMPLEMENTATION AND THE ACHIEVEMENT OF OUTPUTS
The “Local planning and investment component” (Component 1) aimed to (i) support and improve the
local decentralised participatory planning process at the Commune level and (ii) provide grants through the
C/S Fund for Commune-level sub-projects identified and prioritized through the participatory local planning
process.

The Communes used the C/S Fund PIM to guide their participatory planning process and prepare five-year
Commune / Sangkat Development Plans (CDPs), three-year rolling Commune / Sangkat Investment
Programs (CIPs), and annual Commune Budgets for the C/S Fund investments. Technical support was
provided from the province where needed.

The C/S Fund is financed by an annual allocation from RGC for the development and administration
components of the C/S Fund. The PLG and PSDD also provided additional discretionary funding totaling US
$12,033,666 over the period from 2003 to 2010. The development component is used to pay for the sub-
projects (capital costs) and has been around two thirds of the total Fund. In the provinces supported by
RILGP, the IDA Credit and Grant were used to reimburse the capital costs of eligible sub projects which had
the appropriate documentation.

During the project period and in the provinces supported by the RILGP, the C/S Fund financed a total of
9,558 projects of which 7,852 (82%) were reimbursed. The total contract value of these projects was US
$75,956,482 and the total amount reimbursed was US $52,336,004 (69%). The average contract value of the
sub-projects was US $7,706.

The main types of sub-projects implemented were rural roads and transportation (76%), irrigation and flood
protection (16%), water supply (5%), education (3%) health and sanitation (0.3% and community buildings
(0.2%). Technical audits were carried out (2005 and 2010) to assess quality and performance in general and
rectify shortcomings.




                                                      35
The “Policy support and project management component” (Component 2) aimed to (i) strengthen
government institutions to implement the decentralized participatory governance systems focused on the C/S
Fund and manage the project, and (ii) support the development of related policies, strategies, and programs.

More specifically, the project supported the renovation or construction of 13 PRDC / ExCom buildings and
provided equipment including 13 vehicles, 373 motorcycles, 12 boats, 52 computer and printers sets, 15
photocopiers and 24 air conditioners. A total of 56 significant studies and research consultancies were
supported and a number of training courses and workshops were provided for key staff.

The various studies and work of the various advisors (paid by PLG/PSDD and IDA Credit/Grant) was
instrumental in bringing a number of improvements to the systems and procedures for the operation of the
C/S Fund. The reimbursement process provided a strong driver for implementation and institutionalization of
these improvements. The main areas worked on were the C/SF Project Implementation Database (for use in
monitoring and reimbursement), safeguards procedures and improving and updating the PIM. The studies and
TA support were also instrumental in developing the Accountability Working Groups and a number of
innovative pilot approaches. Specific consultancies were used to finance the initial drafting of the National
Programme for Sub-National Democratic Development (NP-SNDD).

ACHIEVEMENT OF INTERMEDIATE OUTCOMES AND DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
“Local planning and investment component”: Component 1 was successful in achieving almost all of its
intermediate outcomes and its part of the development objective of providing a large amount of priority
infrastructure at the commune level. This component had two parts.

1) Local planning and prioritization: The communes generally improved their implementation of the
participatory planning process provided for in the PIM, and produced 5 year Commune Development Plans
(CDP), and 3 year rolling Commune Investment Programs (CIP) reflecting local priorities. The C/S annual
“budgets” for the C/S Fund were found to reflect the local priorities in the CIP although this was sometimes
influenced by factors such as the availability of other funding (e.g. NGOs) for specific projects and the
shortage of technical capacity for particularly demanding projects.

2) Investment and sub-project implementation: The C/S Fund successfully financed a large number of
infrastructure sub-projects (9,558) which addressed community priorities and generally followed the
procedures set out in the C/SF PIM. The WB reimbursed a total of 7,852 (82%) of these sub-projects which
exceeded the target of 7,500. The reimbursement system generally worked satisfactorily and greatly
strengthened compliance in the PIM procedures including safeguards. The total reimbursement exceeded the
budget and accounted for 90% of the total WB expenditure. The target time for final payment to contractors
was fully achieved. The 2010 technical audit assessed the technical quality as satisfactory for around 80% of
sub projects. Return on investments studies generally indicate acceptable rates of return for the types of
infrastructure supported (especially roads) and a NCDD / PST / M&E study concluded that much rural
infrastructure and particularly roads had contributed to improved household welfare.

“Policy support and project management component”: Component 2 was largely successful in achieving
its intermediate outcomes and its part of the development objective of strengthening participatory local
governance systems and institutions. This component had two parts.

1) Strengthening institutions and local governance systems: The communes were able, with some
technical support, to carry out the participatory planning, and manage the contracting of investment sub
projects through the C/S Fund. Communes have also become more competent at managing other projects,
such as those supported by NGOs or line ministries which do not pass through the C/S Fund. A recent study
also assessed that less money is misappropriated in C/S F projects than in other construction projects in the
country.

The project contributed in varying degrees to the development of the C/S Fund PIM, the PID, Safeguards
procedures and Accountability Working Groups. The PIM has been greatly improved and has been updated
regularly to correct shortcomings and accommodate new ideas. The Safeguards procedures have been greatly
strengthened and are incorporated into the PIM. The PID was upgraded to an extremely useful and fully
functional web-based database with a comprehensive set of data for all C/S Fund sub-projects. Public


                                                     36
disclosure of a large amount of sub-project information through the web-based PID is reported to have
improved transparency and helped to reduce collusion.

Communes haven improved understanding of good governance and are implementing the accountability box
mechanism. Accountability Working Groups have been established at the national and provincial levels, with
appropriate systems and procedures and guidelines. Effectiveness has been improved through the
establishment of AWG “Support Groups”. The Good Governance Framework was used to monitor and
improve governance and shows how NCDD has improved governance including financial management and
procurement practices. A study of improvements in a “local governance index” showed some improvement
that was linked to the C/S Fund.

13 PRDC / ExCom buildings were renovated or constructed by the end of 2009 and the various national and
provincial offices equipped as planned. The human capacity of key staff has improved through training and
much “learning by doing”. Even though communes relied heavily at times on technical support from the
province, the experience of implementing the C/S fund seems to have been a major source of learning,
particularly about complex concepts such as governance, transparency, accountability, etc. While the
understanding and capacity of Commune Councils and their committees have improved considerably,
capacity has not yet reach the stage where they can do all the tasks required for the implementation of the C/S
Fund. Technical support will still be needed for some tasks.

2) Support for development of policies, strategies and programs: The project has successfully contributed
together with other projects (particularly the PLG / PSDD) to the on-going efforts by government to develop
policies, strategies and programs related to decentralization, deconcentration, democratic development and
improved governance systems. Probably the most important was the support for the initial draft of the
National Program for Sub-National Democratic Development which has been adopted.

ACHIEVEMENT OF IMPACT
There is a very strong case that the project has made a significant contribution to rural development and
the reduction of poverty in rural Cambodia although attribution to the RILGP is difficult. Cambodia is a
rapidly developing country, emerging from decades of conflict with strong programs on decentralization and
rural development. The situation in rural areas has been dynamic and continuously evolving with general
improvement in livelihoods and reduction of poverty. There are many linked factors causing these changes
including general economic growth, greater interconnectedness, urban migration for employment, education,
many development projects, improved governance and security, etc. Within this context, the RILGP has
contributed significantly, and benefited from much synergy. The infrastructure constructed has addressed
strongly felt local needs. There has been synergy with other projects especially from the roads which allow
access (e.g. to a new clinic). The implementation of sub-projects through the C/S Fund has strengthened
understanding, capacity and confidence. This improved local governance combined with better local
infrastructure and access have supported the mobilization and implementation a number of other sources of
funds and implementation of projects in the communes. These developments combined with external factors
(the improved economy, trader access, etc) and the drives of local people have led to important improvements
in livelihoods and welfare for most households (although some have remained poor). These are very
important changes to which the project has made a significant contribution.

The RILGP has also made important contributions to the development of policies and institutions. The
project has been able to feed ideas and experience into the ongoing policy debate and has directly contributed
to the development of the National Program for Sub-National Development (NP-SNDD). This will shape the
future of Cambodia’s local governance institutions and rural development for many years to come.

RELEVANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY
The Project was highly relevant at the start and throughout the implementation of the project. The project
design focused on the strengthening of decentralized governance systems and the provision of locally
prioritized rural investments. Decentralization, deconcentration and democratic development have been and
still are at the heart of government policy. Basic rural infrastructure and other public goods were and still are
high priorities of local communities. The project was implemented through and helped to strengthen
government structures and the C/S Fund.



                                                       37
Sustainability concerns the risk to the three main development outcomes of the project: (i) the rural
infrastructure, (ii) the improved decentralized local governance institutions and C/S Fund operation
(Communes and PRDC ExCom), and (iii) the policies, strategies and programs to which the project
contributed. The support to policy was a one-off contribution to a continuing process so sustainability is not
an issue here. There are however, important threats to much of the rural infrastructure (especially roads) and
the operation and maintenance systems will need to be improved. The improved local governance institutions
and the C/S Fund operation will be greatly affected by the implementation of the NP-SNDD. If this program
is well implemented with a smooth transition to sound and sustainable decentralized governance systems
with appropriate institutional structures and adequate inbuilt capacity, then the development outcomes
supported through the RILGP are very likely to be maintained and extended. Given the government’s strong
commitment to decentralization and the implementation of the RILGP from within government, the overall
risk to the development outcomes was assessed as only moderate.

PERFORMANCE OF THE WB, PLG/PSDD AND GOVERNMENT
The performances of the WB, the PSDD and PLG together and the NCDDS and STFS together, were all
assessed as satisfactory. This means that there were only minor shortcomings, which is as would be expected
for such a complex and demanding undertaking as the RILGP.

OVERALL ASSESSMENT AND MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
The overall conclusion is that the RILGP was an excellent and very successful project. The project achieved
almost all of its objectives and contributed significantly as intended to the stock of rural infrastructure,
improved decentralized local governance institutions and C/S Fund operation, and government policy. The
project was also able to make important contributions to overall rural development and poverty reduction,
and support the development of the NP-SNDD. This will shape the future of Cambodia’s local governance
institutions and rural development for many years to come.

The project has generated a large amount of learning. A consultative process at the end of the project has
drawn out the main lessons learned. The following areas were covered by these lessons learned. These are
presented in more detail in the text.

1.    Communes can implement investment projects efficiently and effectively.
2.    Institutional capacity development through practical experience and “learning by doing”.
3.    Appropriate procedures should be developed to balance achievable capacity and institutional
      requirements.
4.    Improving participation in the commune decision making process.
5.    Improved PIM procedures have increased transparency and competitiveness.
6.    Increased roles through participatory joint monitoring.
7.    Accountability mechanisms minimize irregularity.
8.    External reviews provide effective quality control.
9.    The PID: an essential tool for management of sub-project implementation.
10.   Linking local government performance and national budgets.
11.   The “reimbursement” process strengthened good practice and reduced risk but was cumbersome in some
      respects.
12.   Projects should work through government budgets to influence policy and practice.
13.   Sharing knowledge and experience from similar national governance projects can bring benefits for C/S
      Councils.




                                                     38
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No Stakeholder Workshop was conducted for this "core ICR"; but during the drafting of the ICR, input from
numerous partners, including co-financiers, was sought. A sample of selected comments (summarized rather
than direct quotations) from a few follows:

•   The dialogue between the Government and development partners is very good overall and deserves
    recognition. Both sides deserve credit for the positive interaction.
•   RILGP performed very well at the national level, at the policy level. And C/SF activities overall are
    good. But popular participation, citizen participation needs to be more active. Local governance, though
    improved, deserves more attention.
•   The councils are more capable, and there is a reasonable and growing degree of citizen satisfaction with
    the councils.
•   The C/S Councils and their performance, in particular in the use of the C/SF, is considered by
    development partners as a real success story and very positive. Continued support is needed.
•   Going forward there is concern regarding the limitations imposed by some financiers (the Bank, through
    RILGP) for only tertiary infrastructure, which translates in practice basically to roads....even more so if
    these village roads are not maintained.
•   There should be more assistance to communes to plan for and investment in needs other than
    infrastructure, including recurrent costs such as road maintenance.
•   Involvement of NGOs in the Accountability Working Groups is positive and getting better, but there is a
    need to demonstrate and publicize complaints resolved and actions taken/sanctions imposed.
•   Accountability is not just at the time of elections; citizens need to periodically (semi-annually or at least
    annually) evaluate the performance of their councilors.
•   RILGP did not use media as well as it should have. More use should have been made of talk shows,
    radio, press releases and features etc. More posters and leaflets would have been useful. More creative
    use could have been made of the very good web-site, rather than just using it for the project database and
    procurement details.
•   There is still a need for more community participatory monitoring and support for "citizen watch dog
    groups" to be formed and trained and reporting on council performance.
•   Much more effort could have been and still needs to be focused on accountability down to the commune
    level. It has not really happened yet.
•   The big challenge for the future is to support the "supply side," the district councils and district
    administration, to respond to commune needs without neglecting or undermining the commune councils
    and C/SF activities. There is a real risk commune councils could be marginalized, which must not
    happen. This hook-up through the DIWs happens but not sufficiently yet.
•   There should be pilot activities carried out where supply side (district technical agency interventions)
    responds to demand from communes and complements commune investments.
•   More engagement of the association/league of C/S Councils would be beneficial, especially to improve
    governance and engage more actively with the new district councils.
•   The lack of timeliness in the provision/disbursement of budgets undermines a lot of the progress made
    and lessens transparency and good governance. This problem must be solved.
•   There is concern regarding the continuing heavy reliance on international TA without permanent civil
    service counterparts in place in the NCDD and ministries in Phnom Penh.
•   There is concern about using government fiscal transfer mechanisms but without the Bank’s "micro-
    management" on individual small sub-projects, which caused lots of delays. "Reimbursement" as it was
    used in RILGP was problematic.
•   It would be good to invite CSOs/NGOs (and development partners) on supervision missions.
•   There is satisfaction that the RGC coordinated interventions by PSDD and RILGP and no desire for any
    greater level of involvement in RILGP by those providing parallel financing in support of the C/S
    Councils and D&D.




                                                      39
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

 No                                    Title                                        Author                Year
1     NCDD Annual Work-plan and Budget, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.                 NCDD / STF             Various years
2     Project Annual Progress Reports.                                        NCDD / STF             Various years
3     RILGP Six-Month-Progress Reports.                                       NCDD / STF             Various years
4     RILGP Annual Work Plan and Budget.                                      NCDD / STF             Various years
5     Survey on Governance, Survey of Knowledge, Attitudes, Practices         Crossroad              2001
      and Beliefs on Standards in Good Governance in Seila                    Consultancies Group
6     Financing Agreement, dated 2002                                         RGC and IDA            2002
7     Final Report of the Baseline Survey for Commune Council                 Helmers, K. and P.     2003
      Infrastructure Investments                                              Wallgren
8     Project appraisal document on a proposed credit for the RILGP           World Bank             2003, March
9     Commune/ Sangkat Fund Project Implementation Manual                     RGC-NCDD               2003, June
10    Economic Evaluation of Laterite Roads supported by C/S F in 2003        MRD and STFs           2004
11    Follow Up Survey On Governance - Survey Of Knowledge, Attitudes,        Crossroads             2004
      Practices And Beliefs On Standard of Good Governance In Cambodia        Consultancies Group
12     An economic evaluation of decentralized rural infrastructure           Abrams J.              2004
      investments In Cambodia
13    Evaluation of effectiveness of Technical Support Unit, Final Report.    Stallen M.             2005
14    Technical Audit of Commune / Sangkat Fund Projects                      CADTIS                 2005
15    Process Audit of the Commune/Sangkat Fund Projects                      Crossroads             2005
                                                                              Consultancies Group
16    Commune Councils in Cambodia: A National Survey of their                Ninh, K. and R.        2005
      Functions and Performance with a Special Focus on Conflict              Henke.
      Resolution
17    RILGP Mid Term Review (IDA No.3747 KH) Draft Final Report.              Strategic Consulting   2006, January
                                                                              Group
18    Socio-Economic Impact Evaluation of Commune/Sangkat Fund                Aruna Technology       2006
      Irrigation Projects                                                     Ltd
19    Aide Memoires of the project Supervision Missions.                      World Bank             Various years
20    Project paper on a proposed additional financing grant for the RILGP.   World Bank             2007, July
21    Assessment and Strengthening of the Effectiveness of Safeguard          Ashwell D.             2007
      Mechanisms for Land Users and the Environment in the Commune -
      Sangkat Fund Project Implementation Process
22    Guideline on C/S Development Plan and C/S Investment Program            MOI and MOP            2007
23    Assessment of C/S Funds Accountability Working Groups, RILGP.           Knowles, J.N.          2007
24    Additional Financing Agreement, dated 14 August 2007                    RGC and IDA            2007, August
25    Responsiveness of the C/S Development Plan and the C/S Investment       SBK Research and       2008
      Program to the Commune Socio-Economic Development Needs and             Development
      the CMDGs- A Study.
26    Survey of Citizen and Councilor Perceptions of Commune Councils.        Meerkerk D., Hean      2008,
                                                                              Sokhom, Lanjouw S.     September
27    Commune/Sangkat Budget Execution Study.                                 Dom C.                 2008
28    Report On The Follow-up Survey to 2003 Baseline Socio-Economic          EIC                    2008
      Benefit Study.
29    Socio-economic Evaluation of C/S Fund Roads Projects.                   Cadtis Consultants     2008
30    Commune / Sangkat Fund Project Implementation Manual.                   NCDD                   2009
31    NGOs Support for Strengthening Public Awareness of Land Use             Chan Borin and         2009
      Rights in Commune /Sangkat Fund Activities.                             Clarke M
32    Cambodia Rural Investment and Local Governance Project, Mid             URS Australia, iLi     2010, January
      Term Review: Final Report.                                              Consulting, Mekong
                                                                              Ltd
33    Poverty and select CMDGs Maps and charts 2003 -2009: Preliminary        Ministry of Planning   2010, March
      results of the Commune Database- based research and analysis project
34    Report of the Second Citizen Satisfaction Survey in Target              EIC/ Pact Cambodia     2010, June
      Communes of the LAAR Project
35    Small contractor study: Commune / Sangkat Fund. NCDDS.                  Johannessen B.         2010,
                                                                                                     December
36    National survey of Commune / Sangkat Council responsibilities,          NLCS                   2010
      capacities and training.
37    Report on Complaint Analysis 2009-2010                                  NAWG                   2010
                                                         40
38   An analysis of the Commune Development Planning database:               NCDD/M&E Unit.        2010, February
     Priority requests and responses 2004 to 2008.
39   Process Audit on the Planning of C/S Fund Projects, 2009                Don Townsend          2010, April
40   Factors Influencing Local Governance Outcomes                           Khun Sithon, Rezaul   2010
                                                                             Karim, Thuy Moly
41   Process Audit Implementation of Commune/Sangkat projects                Leighton Williams     2010
42   Technical Audit of the Commune/Sangkat Commune Infrastructure           Hans van Kampen       2010
     Projects.
43   Local Governance Index 2008 - 09 Trend and Impact of Commune            My Boret, Rezaul      2010, May
     Sangkat Fund on Local Governance                                        Karim, Thuy Moly
44   Household Welfare Impact of D&D Policy Through the C/S Fund             NCDD/M&E Unit         2010, Oct
     Investment: Evidence from Panel Household Survey 2003-2008
45   Local Governance Accountability, Responsiveness and Related             NCDDS                 2010, May
     Perceptions 2009 Follow up to 2008 Baseline Surveys. Monitoring,
     Evaluation & Policy Dissemination Unit, PST, NCDD Secretariat.
46   Rapid field assessment report to support the preparation of the RILGP   Prom Nga and          2010,
     Project Completion Report.                                              Gossage S             December
47   Findings of surveys on perceived capacity of C/S Councils.              NLCS                  2010




                                                        41
Annex 10. Good Governance Framework

       Issue/Risk                     Action to Mitigate Risk               Responsible      Status as of Closing Date
Element 1:                   Element 1: Procurement
Procurement
Irregularities:              Component A – Local Level
     Collusion during        Review C/S Fund procurement guidelines         NCDDS/PST       Done. PIM revised,
     bidding process,        and update as appropriate to address                           acceptable to the Bank, and
     mainly community        feedback from post-reviews to date.                            widely applied.
     participation and                                                      NCDDS/PST
     procurement of          Prepare and implement supplementary            to design and   Done. Total of 11,242
     small works             procurement training program at commune        implement       commune councilors and
     Non-compliance          and district level.                            with WB         relevant government staff
     with guidelines                                                        assistance.     were trained.
     during bid              Component B – National Level
     evaluation              Pursuant to the decision of RGC to require     MEF             Done. IPA hired. All
     Suppliers/contractors   PA to handle procurement for selected                          procurement under
     offer incentives for    ongoing and all future WB funded                               component B was done by
     favorable treatment     projects, PA to be hired by MEF and                            IPA, except the individual
                             responsible to handle all national level                       consultants.
                             procurement and follow SOP/PM.
Element 2: Financial         Element 2: Financial Management
Management
Weak external audit          NCCDS to adopt new Terms of Reference          NCCDS/PST       Done. TOR was revised
                             (TOR) for external audit (agreed MEF/WB                        accordingly and applied from
                             FM Specialist) with greater emphasis on                        2005 onwards. All audits up
                             internal controls.                                             to 2009 were completed and
                                                                                            reports submitted to the
                                                                                            Bank.
Weak internal audit (IA)     TOR for the Provincial Financial Advisors      NCDDS/PST       An international Financial
capacity                     to be reviewed to ensure that it still                         Adviser and 22 Provincial
                             includes the mandate to review                                 Financial Advisers hired.
                             periodically in each provincial treasury the                   Training conducted for 150
                             accounting system, records and                                 relevant provincial officers.
                             documentation relating to the                                  Project Information Database
                             reimbursement from IDA for C/S Fund                            established to support
                             sub-projects and to verify eligibility on a                    eligibility screening.
                             sample basis. IDA will continue to                             Financial Advisers conducted
                             supplement this with an annual SOE audit                       internal audits as part of the
                             on a sample basis.                                             screening.
Minimize cash                All progress payments to contractors,          NCDDS           Done. Being practiced for all
transactions                 suppliers and consultants – firms,                             payments above $100, except
                             individuals, national and international – to                   in emergencies.
                             be made by check or transfer to bank
                             accounts. Retain evidence for audit and                        Payment from C/SF accounts
                             WB supervision and post review missions.                       made via checks cashable in
                                                                                            the provincial bank. (Full
                             Selected C/S Councils to be permitted to       MEF to          commercial bank use is
                             open accounts in commercial banks for          authorize       piloted using other funds, not
                             project disbursements on a pilot basis.                        RILGP).
Informal payments by         National Level: All contractors, suppliers     MEF/IPA         Done. Practice is continuing.
contractors, suppliers and   and consultants – firms or individuals,                        This is included in the NCDD
consultants                  national and international, bidding for                        Admin Manual applied from
                             contracts under the project shall sign the                     Dec. 2008 onwards and has
                             Declaration on Ethical Conduct and Fraud                       been monitored during spot
                             and Corruption in the SOP/PM. Amend                            checks and systematic
                             item 5 of the Declaration to read: “In                         monitoring visits.
                             connection with this procurement exercise
                             and any contract that is awarded to us as a
                             result thereof, no payments have been
                             made or will be made by us, our

                                                            42
      Issue/Risk                Action to Mitigate Risk                Responsible     Status as of Closing Date
                      associates, agents, shareholders, partners
                      or their relatives or associates to any of the
                      staff, associates, consultants, employees or
                      relatives of such who are involved with the
                      procurement process, contract
                      implementation, and the issuance of
                      progress payments on behalf of the
                      purchaser, client or employer.”
                      Include amended Declaration in all                              Reviewed, revised and
                      bidding documents, RFPs, and contracts.                         adopted by 3rd Qtr CY2007.
                      Commune Level: Include similar                   NCDDS/PST      Implemented from CY 2008
                      requirement in revision of C/S Fund                             bidding onwards.
                      Implementation Manual
Inconsistency in      NCDDS/PST to adopt amended Anukret               NCDDS/PST      Done. DSA applied under
allowances paid to    10 DSA rates for in-country and                  (MEF to        RILGP follows MEF
Government staff      international travel.                            instruct all   guideline. It was adopted in
attending training,                                                    EAs on         the revised NCDD finance
workshops and study   Agree eligibility rules for attending            amendment to   manual effective Dec. 2008.
tours                 training, workshops and study tours.             Anukret 10)
                      Attendees must:
                      • be engaged in work relevant to the
                         training                                      NCDDS/PST
                      • be competent in the language used              with WB/       Done. RILGP PIM amended
                                                                       other C/SF     accordingly (by time of
                      • after return, report on and share their
                                                                       donors         effectiveness of the additional
                         experiences for the benefit of the project
                                                                                      financing).
                      Ensure that training, workshops, study
                      tours and other similar activities:
                      • are in line with project aims and
                        objectives
                      • meet identified needs within the sub
                        component plans
                      • have budget in line with planned
                        expenditure
                      • have received WB NOL
                      • are approved by the project manager

                      Set cost norms for budget purposes against
                      three quotations for:
                      • venue rental with refreshments/meals
                      • sound and projection equipment hire
                      • stationery/hand-outs
                      • project-specific training and workshop
                        materials
                      • simultaneous translators
                      • photocopying, reproduction, translation

                      Define evidence to be submitted by
                      attendees for reimbursement of expenses
                      which may include:
                      • proof of attendance for period claimed
                        with signed statement by the workshop,
                        training or study tour organizer or host;
                      • proof of travel by air – ticket stubs,
                        travel agent’s receipt, airline boarding
                        passes
                      • receipted hotel bills (for proof of stay);
                      • receipts for incidental traveling
                        expenses;

                                                      43
      Issue/Risk                  Action to Mitigate Risk               Responsible       Status as of Closing Date
                         • receipted invoices for venue rental, food
                           and beverage, sound/projection
                           equipment, hire of simultaneous
                           translator, stationery and handouts, use
                           of photocopying facilities.
                         Reimburse against receipts except where
                         covered by fixed allowances as specified
                         in Anukret 10.
                         Receipts to be kept for attendees’ per diem
                         and allowances.
Element 3 : Disclosure   Element 3 : Disclosure
Enhance transparency     At National Level: Agree project               NCDDS/PST        All key information for
through greater public   information to be disclosed semi-annually      and WB to        RILGP and the C/SF
disclosure of project    on NCDD/MOI website, with hard copies          agree to final   implementation posted on
information              available for public inspection on request.    list             NCDD website with regular
                         At a minimum, disclosed information is                          update <www.ncdd.gov.kh>.
                         expected to include:                                            Some information is available
                         General:                                                        in hard copy.
                         • project name, objectives, original and
                           revised amounts, sources of funding,                          Detail information of
                           effectiveness date, original closing date,   NCDDS/PST        commune project information
                           revised closing date, number of              to arrange       and progress accessible via a
                           extensions, name and address of EA,          disclosure       web-based database called
                           name of Project Director with contact                         PID.
                           information, name of WB TTL and                               <http://db.ncdd.gov.kh/>
                           contact information in the MEF-WB unit
                           and WB Office in Cambodia                                     Bidding information and
                         • details of project components,                                forms for commune projects
                           percentage of completion, data on                             available on NCDD website.
                           performance indicators
                         • six month progress reports
                         • planned and actual disbursements by sub
                           components
                         • annual financial statements and audit
                           opinion
                         • other specific reports prepared by the
                           project
                         Procurement Related:
                         • annual Work Program and Procurement          PA/MEF
                           Plan, identifying contracts to be
                           procured in next 12 months, nature of
                           each contract, cost estimate, location,
                           method of procurement, means of
                           advertisement, bidding period, location
                           where bidding documents and RFPs can
                           be inspected, expected date of
                           availability, and cost of bidding
                           documents
                         • consultant long and short lists
                         • bidding documents and RFP’s to be
                           available for inspection
                         • bid closing dates, names of bidders and
                           their bid prices at opening
                         • list and details of contracts awarded,
                           names of losing bidders and, if their bid
                           prices were lower than the winning
                           bidder, the reason for their rejection
                         • complaints mechanism and remedies
                         At Province/Commune Level: Agree               NCDDS/PST        All bidding information
                         project information to be disclosed on                          posted on NCDD website, in
                                                        44
       Issue/Risk                       Action to Mitigate Risk             Responsible     Status as of Closing Date
                             public notice boards in communes and                         newspapers, radio, and also
                             districts, with hard copies available for                    on the notice boards of the
                             public inspection on request. As a                           relevant province and
                             minimum, disclosed information is                            commune. Though practice is
                             expected to include:                                         still spotty, better in urban
                             • contracts to be tendered during the                        than remote communes.
                               bidding cycle, nature of each contract,
                               cost estimate, location, method of
                               procurement, means of advertisement,
                               bidding period, location where bidding
                               documents and RFPs can be inspected,
                               expected date of availability, and cost of
                               bidding documents
                             • consultant prequalification lists
                             • bidding documents and RFP’s to be
                               available for inspection
                             • bid closing dates, names of bidders and
                               their bid prices at opening
                             • list and details of contracts awarded,
                               names of losing bidders and, if their bid
                               prices were lower than the winning
                               bidder, the reason for their rejection
                             • complaints mechanism and remedies
Element 4: Civil Society     Element 4: Civil Society Role
Role
Greater involvement by       Commune Level                                  NCDDS/PST.    The revised commune
Civil Society                Identify CSOs appropriate to be involved                     planning guidelines and PIM
Organizations (CSOs)         in selected aspects of project                               allows for CSO participation
                             implementation. Agree to invite                              in the process of commune
                             representatives to observe selected events,                  planning and as observes to
                             such as:                                                     the procurement/bidding.
                             • public bidding meetings
                             • contract signings                                          NGOs and CSOs engaged by
                             CSO attendance at bidding meetings to be                     NCDDs to be involved in the
                             recorded in minutes of the bidding                           safeguard awareness,
                             meeting.                                                     safeguards post review, and
                             Subcomponent under grant to be                 NCDDS/PST     complaints handling. Efforts
                             implemented by NGOs/CSOs to support                          made to raise awareness and
                             Citizen Engagement in C/S Budget Cycle,                      capacity for NGOs/CSOs on
                             including planning and implementation.                       D&D policies.
Element 5: Complaints        Element 5: Complaints and Remedies
and Remedies                 Mechanism
Mechanism
No overall complaints        National level: Complaints procedures          MEF/PA        Mechanism (Accountability
and remedies mechanism       regarding procurement to follow process                      Working Groups) established
covering the project         set out in SOP/PM and under TOR of PA.                       for both national and sub-
                             Commune level: Complaints regarding            NCDDS/PST     national level. The process
                             any aspect of the C/S Fund can be referred                   and practice reviewed and
                             to Provincial Accountability Working                         still is ongoing, despite
                             Groups                                                       RILGP being closed.
Element 6: Sanctions         Element 6: Sanctions
Need to reinforce Code       National level: Sanctions related to the       MEF/WB.       A list of sanctions is included
of Conduct with              Declaration on Ethical Conduct and Fraud                     in the AWG guidelines.
sanctions for fraudulent     and Corruption in the SOP/PM applied.                        Application of these
and corrupt activity by      Province/Commune level: Identify and                         continues.
staff of NCDDS and at        specify sanctions available to be applied
district and commune         by the C/S Fund NAWG and PAWGs.                NCDDS/PST     Black-listed contractors
level, as well as for        Raise awareness (through information                         engaged in collusive practices
contractors, suppliers and   meetings, pamphlets, etc.) on the existence                  posted on website.
consultants, currently not   of the sanction regime applicable to the
                                                            45
       Issue/Risk                      Action to Mitigate Risk              Responsible    Status as of Closing Date
properly disseminated.       project and the modalities of the complaint
                             mechanism.
                             WB Sanction Policy. WB to apply
                             sanctions available in its general and
                             project-specific legal agreements,
                             including the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.
                             Sanctions may include;
                             • dismissal and referral for prosecution of
                               corrupt WB staff                             MEF/WB        Included in Financing
                             • notifying NCDD/PST/MEF of                                  Agreement. Applied
                               wrongdoing by any person associated                        whenever evidence is found,
                               with the project for further action by the                 more consistently in recent
                               RGC                                                        years.
                             • requiring NCDD/PST to remove an
                               individual from further involvement in
                               the project
                             • declaring mis-procurement, suspending
                               disbursement or canceling the
                               credit/grant
                             • Reprimanding or debarring
                               individuals/firms.
Element 7: Technical         Element 7: Technical Quality of Design
Quality of Design and        and Construction
Construction
Need to keep distinct        Provincial TSU to conduct cross checks on      NCDDS/PST     Done routinely.
division between project     projects proposed by communes before
and provincial               sign off on project design, to keep distinct
infrastructure               division between commune project and
improvement projects.        provincial infrastructure improvement
                             projects.
Some facilities may not      Apply rigorous supervision standards.          NCDDS/PST     Very few sub-projects were
be constructed despite                                                      and           abandoned by contractors. In
disbursements being                                                         Provincial    2007, due to the financial
made or standard of          Conduct random and regular technical           TSU.          crisis, 85 sub-projects were
construction may be          audit of physical facilities constructed                     not completed. Sub-projects
below specification.         under the project.                                           that are uncompleted or not
                                  • Regular internal technical audits       NCDDS/PST     fully meeting RILGP
                                        by Head of TSU.                     and           requirement are not
                                  • Two external technical audits           Provincial    reimbursed.
                                        conducted on random sample of       TSU
                                        projects.
                                  • WB to conduct random sample
                                        technical audit as part of          WB            Done.
                                        procurement post reviews.
Influence and vested         Adhere strictly to guidelines for locating     Commune       Done.
interests may lead to bias   facilities during sub-project design stage.    Councils,
in locating facilities to                                                   Provincial
benefit district, commune                                                   TSU,
or village officials.                                                       NCDDS/PST




                                                            46
47
                                                          103° E                                        104° E                                              105° E                                               106° E                                               107° E

               0           20           40            60            80 Kilometers
                                                                                                                  THAILAND                                                                                                   L A O P. D . R .
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CAMBODIA
               0                   20                      40             60 Miles         To
                                                                                       Pak Charang                        Khu Khan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             RURAL INVESTMENT AND
                                                                                            ODDAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                               Champasak                                                                                                       LOCAL GOVERNANCE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kon
                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                          Samraong                                                                                                                          Phiafai
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                g
                                                                                                                                       Cheom Ksan
                                                                                           MEANCHEY                                                                                                                              Siem Pang
                                                                                                                                                                                        Kompong Sralao




                                                                                               ng
                                                                                              Sr
                                                                                                 e                                                                                                                                      ng
           14° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    14° N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ko
                                                                                                                                  PREAH                       VIHEAR                                                                                         RATANAKIRI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
              To
              Buri
                                            BANTEAY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Phum Kompadou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Play Cu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2003 – 2010
                                                                                                                                        Phnum Tbeng                                                                                                    n
                                                                                                                                                                                   Melouprey                                                        Sa
                                           MEANCHEY                                                                                        Meanchey                                                  STUNG TRENG                                                            Ban                                          2004 – 2010
                                                             Sisophon               Kralanh                                                                                                                                                                                 Long
                                                                                                     SIEM REAP                                                                                                        Stung Treng                          Srepok           Lomphat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2005 – 2010

                                                                                                       Siem Reap                                                                                                                                                                                                         2007 – 2010

                                                                                                                                                                Rovieng

                                                                        Battambang                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                             Sen
                                                                                                       Tonle
           13° N                               B AT TA M B A N G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13° N         PROVINCE CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  g
                                                                                                                                                                                               ong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kohnieh




                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mekon
                                                                                                        Sap




                                                                                                                                                                                            Por
                                  Pailin                     Chas
                                                                                                                            KAMPONG                                     THOM                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MONDOL
                    PA I L I N                                                                                                                              Kampong Thom                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           K R AT I E                                           KIRI
                                                                                                         Pursat                                                                                                                                                                                                   RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kratie                                                         Senmonorom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                    Peam
                                                                                                                                            on                                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                           T




                                                                                    P U R S AT
                                                                                                                                                 le
                                                                                                                                                                               KAMPONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                          KAMPONG                                                CHAM                                                                                                        Duc Lap
                                                                                                                                                      Sap




                                                                                                                          CHHNANG                                                           Kampong
           12° N                                                                                                                                                              Mekong                                                                                                                12° N
                                                                                                                                                                                            Cham
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ba Ra
                                                                                                                                                             PHNOM PENH
                                                                   Krong Koh Kong                         KAMPONG
                                                                                                                                                             PHNOM PENH
                                                                                                            SPEU                                                                                                        To
                                                                           KOH KONG                                Kampong Speu                                                        Prey Veng
                                                                                                                                                            Ta Khmau                                  SVAY            Tay Ninh

                         G ul f o f                                                                                                                  KANDAL PREY                                     RIENG                                          VI ETN A M
                       Thai l and
                                                                                                                                                            VENG                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                     Ba k




                                                                                                                                                  Chambak                                                  Svay                   Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                       ssa




                                                                                                                                                 Takeo                                                     Rieng
           11° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11° N
                                                                                      Chhak
                                                                                     Kampong
                                                                                                                                           TAKEO                                                                                                                                                                           CAMBODIA
                                                                                      Saom
                                                                                                               KAMPOT                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Cao Lanh
           This map was produced by the
           Map Design Unit of The World
                                                                       Sihanoukville                      Kampot
           Bank. The boundaries, colors,
           denominations and any other
                                                                             SIHANOUK-
                                                                                                                    Kep                                   To
           information shown on this map do
           n o t i m p l y, o n t h e p a r t o f T h e
                                                                                VILLE                                                                 Long Xuyen




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 38562
           World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                              To
MAY 2011




           on the legal status of any                                                                                                Rach Gia
           territory, or any endorsement or                                                                        KEP
           acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                          103° E                                        104° E                                              105° E                                               106° E                                               107° E
