Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
lteport No. 6991-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 8, 1988
Europe, Midale East and North Africa Region
Country Department I
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a resticted distrbution and may be used by reciplnls only in the pe_ormnce of
their official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wIthout Wodd Bank andrhra"



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$1 = Rs 17.5
Rupee 1 = US$0.06
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
English/US Units                      Metric Units
1 inch (in)                =       25.4 millimeters (mm)
1 foot (ft)                =       30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 yard (yd)                =       0.915 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)                =       1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                =       0.405 hectares (ha)
1 square mile (sq. mi)    =        259 ha
I pound (lb)               a       0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (lg ton)        -       1.016 metric tons (t)
cubic foot/second (cis)   _        0.0283 cubic meters/second (m3/sec)
=      28.32 liters/second (1/sec)
acre foot (af)            =       1,233.5 cubic meters (m3)
Pakistani Units             English Units               Metric Units
1 Maund            -   82.3 lbs (0.0367 lg ton)   =   37.32 kg (0.0373 t)
26.8 maunds        =   2,205 lbs                    2   1.0 t
27.2 maunds        =   1.0 Ig ton (2,240 lbs)       =   l,C16 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ac                      -      Acre
ACOP                    -       Alluvial Canal Observation Project
ADP                     -       Annual Development Program
cca or CCA              -      Canal Command Area
cusecs                  -      Cubic Feet per Second
DCA                     -       Development Credit Agreement
ECNEC                   -       Executive Committee of National Economic Council
ERR                     -       Economic Rate of Return
FCC                     -       Federal Coordination Cell
FFYP                    -       Fifth Five-Year Plan (FY79-83)
FGW                     -       Fresh Groundwater
GDP                     -       Gross Domestic Product
GOP                     -       Government of Pakistan
GOProvinces             -       Government of Provinces
HDC                     -       Hydraulic Design Criteria
HP                      -       Horse Power
ICB                     -       International Competitive Bidding
ISM                     -       Irrigation Systems Management Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IIMI                   -       International Irrigation Managemenc Institute
ISRP-I                 -       Irrigation Systems Rehab. Proj. (Cr. 1239-PAK)
ISRP-II                -       Second Irrigation Systems Rehab. Proj.
LCB                     -      Local Competitive Bidding
M                       -      Million
maf                     -      Million Acre Feet
M cf                    -      Million Cubic Feet
NA                      -      Not Applicable
NESPAK                  -      National Engineering Services, Pakistan
NWFP                    -      North West Frontier Province
O&M                     -      Operation and Maintenance
PA                      -      Project Agreement
P&D                     -      Provincial Planning & Dev. Depts.
PID                     -      Provincial Irrigation Department
PPC                     -      Provincial Project Coordinator
ppm                     -      Parts Per Million
RAP                     -      Revised Action Program
SCARP                   -      Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
SSFY                    -      Sixth Five-Year Plan (FY84-88)
SGW                     -      Saline Groundwater
TDS                     -      Total Dissolved Solids
TW                      -      Tubewell
UNDP                    -      United Nations Development Program
USAID                   -      U.S. Agency for International Devr.lopment
WAPDA                   -      Water and Power Development Author.&ty
Xen                     -      Executive Engineer
GLOSSARY
bund                    -      flood protection embankment
doab                    -      land between major river systems in Punjab
chak                   -       lowest order of irrigation command (about 450 ac)
kareze                  -      traditional irrigation system with tunnel
conveyance channel
kharif                  -      wet season (mid-April to mid-October)
mogha                   -      controlled outlet from ?arent canal to chak
rabi                   -       dry season (mid-October to mid April)
warabundi               -      weekly rotational schedule of irrigation
deliveries -o farmers
watercourse             -      irrigation distribution system in a chak
FISCAL YEAP
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS RERABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
'table of Contents
Page No.
I* BACKGROUND  ...........                .f                                1
General                                                               I..f  
Physical and Demographic Features ...............................  1
Agricultural Performance              ............2
Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance Strateg  o*.........    3
Rationale for IDA Involvement                                         4
II.  IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND RELATED REHABILITATION ....                      4
Irrigation Facilities ...............4
Drainage Facilities ................................  6..........  6
Problems Associated with Existing Facilities                          7
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1239-MAK) 7.......   7
Experience with ISRP-I                                                9
Evialuation of ISRP-I ...10
III.  THE PROJECT ...................11
-^bjectives .....11
Project Description                                                 11
Detailed Features                                                    12
Civil Works .........12
Equipment                             ....^15
Technical Assistance                         ................. . 15
Training .........       *¢e*************X*++*4  16
Supervision and Administration                                    16
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCURENT              ......             17
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures ..................... 17
Financ ing ..........18
Disbursements ....                                                  18
Procurement . .......19
Accounts and Audits ......20



-ii-
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE .............. 21
Institutional Arrangements ......a.............. .............. ...  21
Operation and Maintenance ..................                         23
Monitoring and Evaluation *......   ........ .... .   . .... 26
Implementation Schedule ............             .... ......   27
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES, FARM INCOME
AND COST RECOVERY ...................................  27
Production ......................................   27
Marketing and Prices .       ..          .. ...............    28
Farm Income ...... .          . . . . . ......                       29
Irrigation O&M Subsidy Removal Issue (Cost Recovery)       ...........  30
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........  34
Production and Employment ......... .............................  34
Economic Analysis ......                .... .... .. .. ..... ... .. ..  34
Sensitivity and Risks        ..........................................  35
Environmental Impact ....      .......................................  35
VIII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............ ..........  36
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1     -    Cost and Disbursement Tables
Table  1    -    Summary Accounts by Year
(Project, Punjab, Sind, North West Frontier, Baluchistan
and Federal Coordination Cell)
Table  2    -    Civil Works
(Punjab, Sind, North West Frontier and Baluchistan)
Table  3    -    Equipment and Spare Parts
Table  4    -    Supervision and Administration
Table  5    -    Technical Assistance and Training
Table  6    -    Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
ANNEX 2     -    Procedures and Criteria for DeterAining Planning and
Design Approach
ANNEX 3     -    Implementation Schedule
ANNEX 4     -    Supervisory Consultants - Terms of Reference



- iii -
ANNEX 5     -    Financial and Economic Tables
Table 1     -    Cropping Patterns and Yields
Table 2     -    Summary Farm Budgets
Table 3     -    Illustrative Farm Budgets
Table 4     -    Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 5     -    Economic Benefits and Costs
PLATES
I.  -    Water Balance - Indus Plain and Peshawar Vale
II.  -    Indus Irrigation System
III.  -    Typical Cross-section of Main Canals and Branches
IV.  -    Typical Cross-section of Distributaries and Minors
V.  -    Organization Chart - Federal Coordinating Cell
VI.  -    Organization Chart - Punjab Department of Irrigation
and Power
VII.  -    Organization Chart - Sind Department of Irrigation
and Power
VIII.  -    Organization Chart - NWFP Department of Irrigation
IX. -    Organization Chart - Baluchistan Department of Irrigation
and Power
MAP         -    PAKISTAN - Secoad Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
(IBRD-19946)
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission visiting Pakistan
during June and July 1987. Mission members comprised Messrs. W. Fairchild, P.
Aklilu, C.P. Cheng, J. Mohamadi and Ms. H. Lee, and Messrs. M. Quereshi, K.
Nobe, W. Erwin (USAID), E. Dahmen (Netherlands), and M. Ehsan (consultant).
Mr. P. Streng carried out the economic analysis and Mr. H. Akhavan provided
computational assistance.



-iv-
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:             Provinces of Baluchistan, North West Frontier,
Punjab and Sind
Amount:                    SDR 58.2 million (US$79.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard, with 35 years maturity
Prolect Description:
The proposed five-year (FY89-93) project would be implemented in all
four Provinces covering a total of 4.1 million hectares. The project would
provide for rehabilitating designated surface irrigation and surface drainage
systems that have deteriorated because of deferred maintenance. The project
would also provide for required equipment and related facilities, as well as
technical assistance, training, project supervision and administration. The
Project objectives would be to: (a) increase agricultural production by:
(i) providing a more reliable water supply by reducing risk of failure and
removing physical constraints in the irrigation network, and (ii) reducing
crop losses resulting from rain flooding by improving the surface drainage
system; (b) provide a more equitable irrigation water supply to farmers
by increasing deliveries to water deficient chaks mainly located in the lower
reaches of minors and distributaries, through a program of silt removal and
redesign of selected channels and moghas; and (c) strengthen the capabilities
of the PIDs' O&M program to improve efficiency in systems operation, and ensure
adequate maintenance of installed facilities.
Risks
Because the project in highly divisible, the risks involved would be
low. If financial constraints in the Provinces should occur necessitating
adjustments in the proposed implementation targets, this situation could be
easily accommodated through changes in project scope or phasing. Such changes
should affect costs and benefits in similar proportions with no unacceptable
reduction in the overall rate of return. There is the risk that GOP and the
Provinces may have difficulty in meeting their O&M subsidy removal commitments
within the stipulated period because of political or other factors. However,
GOP is committed to the phasing out of subsidies which, among others, is an
important means of containing the budget deficit.



Estimated Proiect Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
(US$ Million) --
A.    Civil Works                               98.8         7.5       106.3
B.    Equipment                                  1.6       29.9         31.5
C.    Technical Assistance                       3.6        8.6         12.2
D.    Training                                   3.0         7.1        10.1
E.    Supervision and Administration            20.5        2.3         22.8
Total Baseline Costs                 127.5        55.4        182.9
Physical Contingencies              12.8         5.5        18.3
Price Contingencies                 13.7         5.5        19.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            154.0       66.4        220.4
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign       Total
--(     (US$ Million)-     -
IDA                                      70.3         9.2         79.5
USAID                                    38.9        56.4         95.3
Netherlands                               7.7         0.8          8.5
GOP                                      37.1          -          37.1
TOTAL                           154.0       66.4        220.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
-          -(US$ Million)
Annual              7.0     13.0      16.0      16.0     16.0      11.5
Cumulative          7.0     20.0      36.0     52.0      68.0      79.5
Rate of Return:      31%



PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01     Pakistan's extensive irrigation and surface drainage systems (about
16.2 M ha) have deteriorated because of deferred maintenance and routing flows
in canals in excess of design capacities. This deterioration is characterized
by frequent breaches of canal banks, sedimentation of canal prisms and failure
of control structures.  TL3 need for remedying this situation was recognized
by the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and the World Bank in the late 1970s,
which resulted in agreement to implement the first Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project (ISRP-I, Cr. 1239-PAK), with co-financing by the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID). USAID's participation
was covered in its "Project Paper, Pakistan Irrigation Systems Management
(ISM, 391-0467)", January 1983.
1.02     During the implementation of ISRP-I, GOP, GOProvinces, USAID and the
Bank recognized the desirability of launching a second systems rehabilitation
project. The Bank, as executing agency for the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) financed project, Investment Project Preparation in the Water,
Agriculture and Energy Sectors (PAK/81/004) contracted with Naticaial
Engineering Services, Pakistan (NESPAK) for preparation of the proposed
project. NESPAK's "Feasibility Report: Second Irrigation Systems
Rehabilitation Project" (ISRP-II), revised April 1987, was accepted by GOP and
served as the principal reference document for a combined IDA, USAID and
Netherlands appraisal mission that visited Pakistan in June and July 1987.
General
1.03     The Islamic Republic of Pakistan covers an area of about 80.0 M ha in
the four Provinces of Punjab, Sin<, North West Frontier (NWFP), and
Baluchistan. Less than 402 of the land area, or 34.4 M ha is suitable for
agricultural and forestry uses, of which about 16.2 M ha are irrigated.
1.04     Pakistan's population is estimated at about 100.0 M (1987) and is
growing at an annual rate of 3%, which projects a population of about 145.0 M
by the year 2000. Over 701 of the population lives in the rural areas. The
average annual per capita income is about US$380. About 301 of the population
is estimated to have an annual income below US$150, which is the absolute
poverty level as currently estimated by the Bank.
Physical and Demographic Featuree
1.05     Climate in Pakistan is arid to subtropical, which allows all-year
cultivation. Annual precipitation is less than 150 mm over much of the Indus
Plain,"' whereas pan evaporation varies from 1,250 mm to 2,800 mm, which
1/ Since over 80% of Pakistan's irrigated area is commanded by the Indus
Irrigation System, unless specifically noted otherwise, reference to the
4rrigation program will relate to that in the Indus Plain.



- 2 -
makes irrigation a ntecessity for most agricultural production. Heavy rainfall
does occur during some monsoon seasons causing substantial flood damage to
crops and property, and loss of human lives. In 1973 and 1976 flcods caused
damage in excess of US$1,800 M.
1.06     Water.  The total annual surface water inflow to the Indus Plain is
185,000 -1-1m  IThe quality of this surface water is good for irrigation,
with total dissolved solids (TDS) between 100 to 350 ppm. There is extensive
groundwater underlying the Indus Plain with slightly less than 50% being of
satisfactory quality for irrigation. Fresh groundwater (FGW) pumpage annually
supplies about 42,000 M m3 for irrigation.  Of the approximately 250,000 M
m3 of water (including rainfall) available to the Indus plain annually, only
about 83,000 M m3 is available to crops because of unavoidable losses and
poor water management (see Plate I, Water Balance for the Indus Plain and
Peshawtar Vale).
1.07     Soils of the Indus Plain are mostly alluvial river deposits.  About
851 of the soil texture is moderately coarse to moderately fine. About 95% of
the 14.5 M ha commanded by the Indus Irrigation System is classified as
moderate to very good 'or crop production, but these soils are becoming
increasingly beset by problems of waterlogging and salinity. A 16.5 M ha soil
salinity survey /' of the Indus Plain found that 381 of these lands were
either saline, sodic or a combination thereof. In addition, this survey
reported 221 of the Indus Irrigation System had a water table within 2.0 m of
the surface and an additional 20% within 3.0 m.
1.08     Farm Size and Tenure.  The average size farm in Pakistan is about 4.7
ha. However, the number and size of farms are skewed. Three percent of the
farms are over 20 ha in size and account for 23% of the cropped area; whereas
171 of the farms are less than one ha and cover only two percent of the area.
Fify-five percent of the farms are owner-operated, 261 are tenant-operated,
and 191 are a combination of owner/tenant operation.
ARricultural Performance
1.09     Agriculture occupies a pivotal place in the nation's economy.  Over
501 of the population is engaged in agricultural activities. The largest
goods producing sector in Pakistan's economy is agriculture, even though its
contribution .o the gross domestic product (GDP) decreased from 401 in FY65 to
about 261 in FY85 (value of about US$6.6 billion).
1.10     During the period FY65-82, agricultural production grew at an average
annual rate of about 41, but the growth rate showed a wide variation, e.g., 6%
in the late 1960s and only 2% in the early to mid-1970s, which was caused by a
succession of floods and droughts during this period. During the first three
years of the current Sixth Five-Year Plan (SFYP, FY84-88), the value added for
major crops increased about 2.71 annually, and for minor crops 3.4%. In FY85,
cotton production rebounded following a reduction of 301 in FY84 because of
1/ Prepared by the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) in 1981 as
part of the UNDP financed, Bank executed "Revised Action Program (RAP) for
Irrigated Agriculture".



- 3 -
pest attacks. The poor FY85 wheat harvest was a result of delayed rains
during the growing season. Seasonal production variations generally reflect
the dominance of weither/exogenous factors and irrigation water
availability. However, the yields of major crops remain well below those of
other dev:loping countries."' Even though Pakistan's climate would permit
all-year cropping, the cropping intensity averaged only 96% for the irrigated
land in FY85. Hence, there remains ample opportunity to further increase
Pakistan's agricultural production.
Government Policy and Bank Group Assistance Strategy
1.141    During the last three decades, GOP's agricultural policies genterally
stressed large water projects, food and input subsidies, agricultural taxation
and price support policies. Some essential requirements for agricultural
production, such as field oriented research, extension programs, water
management and operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation systems were
severely neglected until recently. During the Fifth Five-Year Plan (F mY,
FY79-83) steps were taken to rectify these deficiencies and these initiatives
have been carried over into the Sixth Five-Year Plan (S m , FY84-88). Major
agricultural sector strategies of these plans include:
a) iumproved availability of modern non-water inputs (fertilizer,
pesticides, and improved seeds) with emphasis on privatization of
distribution and sale of these inputs;
(b) upgraded services (extension and institutional credit);
(c) spread of farm mechanization; and,
(d) improved input of irrigation water, with emphasis on water management,
systems rehabilitation, O&M and drainage of water-
logged lands.
1.12    The water subsector policies pursued in FFYP and continued in the SFYP
grew out of the UNDP financed Indus Basin Study in the 1970s, for which the
Bank served as executing agency. This study's report, "Revised Action Program
(RAP) for irrigated Agriculture," WAPDA (May 1979), recommended numerous
policy and institutional improvements (including privatization of public
tubewells in FGW areas) and placed investment priority on drainage,
rehabilitation and water management. IDA has assisted a number of projects in
these priority areas including drainage projects such as Khairpur II (Cr.
648-PAK), Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) VI (Cr. 754-PAK),
SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK), Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK) and Left Bank
Outfall Drain (Cr. 1532-PAK); the Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1239-PAK); and water management projects such as the On-Farm
Water Management (OFWM) Project (Cr. 1163-PAK), Command Water Management
Project (Cr. 1487-PAK) and the Second OFWM Project (Cr. 1603-PAK). Despite the
1/ For example, the FY83 yield of wheat in Pakistan was about 1.6 tcn/hectare
(t/ha) whereas in Mexico it was about 4.2 t/ha; for paddy it was 2.5 t/ha
compared to Egypt's 5.3; seed cotton was 1.4 t/ha to Egypt's 2.5;
sugdrcane was 35.6 t/ha to India's 56.0; and maize was 1.3 t/ha to
Turkey's 2.7.



-4 -
policy reforms of recent years and the essentially correct investment
priorities of GOP, a great deal remains to be done if the potential of the
agricultural sector is to be realized. The proposed ISRP-II is to address one
important element of GOP's agenda: further rehabilitation of the irrigation
system to improve the efficiency and equity of irrigation water deliveries.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.13     The proposed ISRP-II forms an integral part of IDA's and GOP's sector
development strategy in Pakistan. This strategy for irrigated agriculture is
based largely on the findings and recommendations of RAP (para 1.12) which
emphasized investment priorities for rehabilitation, water management and
drainage projects. Rehabilitating the irrigation system is an investment
priority of GOP's SFYP (FY84-88), which is expected to carry over to the
Seventh Plan (FY89-93). Even though considerable progress was made during
ISRP-I, a substantial amount of rehabilitation work remains (para 3.04) and
IDA's continuing involvement would be an important factor in ensuring its
completion, particularly as a means of assuring adequate O&M funding and
mobilizing the required financial resources for the project from within the
country and abroad.
EL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS AND RELATED REHABILITATION
2.01     Irrigation began in Pakistan about 3,000 years ago.  However, most of
the larger irrigation infrastructural works have been installed during the
last 50 years with Mangla and Tarbela reservoirs and the link canals being
constructed during the 1960s and 1970s.  Today, about 16.2 M ha of land is
commanded for irrigation with about 14.5 M ha being seived by the Indus
Irrigation System. About 902 of Pakistan's agricultural production comes from
these irrigated lands.
Irrigation Facilities
2.02     Indus Irrigation System.  The Indus Irrigation System (14.0 M ha cca)
is the largest contiguous irrigation system in the world. It comprises the
Indus River and its major tributaries, three major storage reservoirs, ./
19 barrages/headworks, 12 link canals, 2' 43 canal commands and some 95,000
chaks. The total length of the canal system is about 58,500 km with
watercourses, farm channels and field ditches in the chaks running another 1.6
M km (see Plate II, Indus Irrigation System).
2.03     Water from the river channels is diverted by barrages and headworks
into the main canals.3'  Generally, the hierarchical canal system runs from
1/  Tarbela has 11,500 M m3 live storage, Mangla 7,275 M m3 and Chasma 865
M m3.
2/  Marola-Ravi link has the largest design capacity of 625 m3/sec.
3/ Rohri Canal in Sind is the largest of the 43 main canals and commands
about 1.1 M ha.



-5-
main canals to branch canals, distributaries, and minors. table 2.1 gives
summary data on irrigation channels by Province.
Table 2.1: SUMMARY OF INDUS IRRIGATION SYSTEM'S CHANNELS
Discharge (i3 sec)                cca
Total Length (km)         Designed Capacity                (M ha)
Punjab              36,700                      7,700 $'                      8.36
Sind                18,625                      3,750                         4.93
NWFP                 2,300                         220                        0.36
Baluchistan            825                         135                        0.31
58,450                     11,805                        13.96
a/ Includes link canals.
Source:  "Rehabilitation of Irrigation and Flood Protection Works in
Pakistan". NESPAK, October 1981 (cca adjusted on basis of RAP data).
2.04     Generally, canal design criteria for the Indus System have been
tailored to:
(a) fit the availability of water supplies in the river;
(b) meet the objective of bringing crops to maturity on the largest
possible area with the minimum consumption of water; and
(c) operate at a low cost and with a limited number of technical staff.
This design, along with deferred maintenance and inadequate supply of other
production inputs, has resulted in low cropping intensities and low yields
(para. 1.10). The original design criterion called for planned surface water
deliveries of about 0.08 m3/sec for each 400 ha commanded. However, flows
in excess of designed capacities are now being carried in most canals.1'
These larger flows have been made possible by an improved system of barrages
and the storage in Mangla and Tarbela reservoirs. Today the surface water
deliveries may be as high as 0.1 m3/sec for each 400 ha; however, this
supply is still short of meeting crop water requirements.
2.05     Until 30 years ago the extensive groundwater resource under the Indus
Plain (para. 1.06) was viewed more as a waterlogging hazard than an asset that
could yield additional irrigation water. The first large scale sailiity
control and reclamation project (SCARP I) was started in 1959 and involved
installation of 2,069 public tubewells (TW). As of June 1987, WAPDA had
installed about 11,000 public TWs in FGW zones and about 1,500 in saline
groundwater (SGW) zones. These public TW8 are drilled to a depth of 60 to 100
m, and are equipped with turbine pumps with an installed capacity of about 55
1/sec; however, some have a capacity of up to 140 1/sec.
i/ For example, Rohri Canal in Sind has a design capacity of 300 m3/sec,
but has been operated at above 455 m3/sec.



2.06     As a result of the SCARP TW experience and related financial returns
achieved, farmers in the late 1950s began installing and operating TWs of 55
1/sec or smaller capacity. These TWs are normally less than 60 m deep and are
equipped with centrifugal pumps. It is estimated that about 225,000 private
TWs have been installed with a tott.l annual pumpage of about 32,000 M m3,
which exceeds by about three times public TW pumpage of 9,725 M m3.
2.07     Irrigation Outside the Indus Plain.  According to RAP there are about
2.2 M ha of irrigated land outside the Indus System. This irrigated land is
in widely scattered parcels, and receives water supply from various sources
such as open wells, TWs, lift pumps, karezes, springs and smaller diversion
and reservoir schemes.  Most of the minor civil canals-' and lift irrigation
schemes are located in NWFP (101,000 ha cca) and Baluchistan (89,000 ha cca).
Water supply available for such schemes is extremely variable by location and
season. Because of the scattered nature of these schemes, O&M is more costly
and difficult.
Drainage Facilities
2.08     The surface and subsurface drainage systems in the irrigated areas of
Pakistan are inadequate. Subsurface drainage would be required for most
irrigated land where the water table is less than 2.0 m deep (about 3.0 M
ha). GOP has attempted to meet such subsurface drainage requirements through
SCARP tubewells (para 2.05), plus a very limited tile drainage program where
applicable, i.e., Khairpur II (Cr. 648-PAK); SCARP Mardan (Cr. 877-PAK);
Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK); and Left Bank Outfall Drain (Cr.1532-PAK).
2.09     The flat topography and lack of well defined natural drainage in the
Indus Plain create a surface drainage problem which has been compounded by the
construction of roads, railways, flood embankments, and irrigation
distribution networks that obstruct natural drainage flows. Over the years a
large network of surface drains has been constructed in Punjab's doabs and
more recently in tail reaches of the Rohri and Nara canal commands in Sind.
Table 2.2 gives a summary of the major characteristics of existing surface
drains.
Table. 2.2: DISCHARGE CAPACITIES, CATCHMENT AREA
AND LENGTH OF SURFACE DRAINS
Discharge      Catchment      Total Length
Province              Designed           Area         of Drains
(m3n/sec)                 (km     (ki)
Punjab                    425            23,390           6,320
Sind                      280            17,720           5,980
NWFP                       95             2,780           1,990
Baluchistan                10               360             160
Total                     810            44,250          14,450
Source: NESPAK, Ibid.
1/ Civil canals are independently operated by farmers rather than PIDs.



-7-
Problems Associated with Existins Facilities
2.10     Canals.  Because of the increasing demands for irrigation water, many
canals are carrying quantities of water well in excess of their design
capacities and beyond the limits of safe operation (para. 2.04). Many canals
are operating with inadequate freeboard, berms have been eroded away,
inspection road widths are inadequate, outside embankments have deteriorated,
sedimentation has severely reduced capacity, and many hydraulic structures
need repair. Embankments and prisms are ravaged by the unauthorized crossing
of people, farm animals and vehicles. Also, an inadequate number of escapes
and related drainage ways have been provided to safely evacuate excessive flow
resulting from torrential monsoon rains. Prior to ISRP-I, canal breaches were
frequent. A notable example was a breach in the Rohri canal in 1978 when the
canal was closed ten days for repairs, with no water deliveries during that
period to the 1.1 M ha cca.
2.11     The Indus canal system carries a substantial sediment load (50 to 300
ppm of fine and medium sands). Even though the canals are theoretically
designed to carry this sediment for proportional deposition on the irrigated
lands, a significant amount is deposited within the channel prisms. This
sediment problem is particular'7 serious in the mid and lower reaches of
distributaries and minors. Sediment deposition raises the water flow line in
canal channels resulting in additional discharges of water to land in the
upper reaches of canals, with corresponding reductions in deliveries to lands
in the mid and lower reaches. Sedimentation is a major reason for the.
disparity between the planned and actual deliveries in these reaches.
2.12     SCARP Public TWs.  Since FY75, SCARP TW pumping capacity has been
declining at a rate of 4 to 6% annually because of TW failure, decline in
groundwater levels, reduction in specific capacity (blockage of TW screens and
gravel packs) and pump breakdowns. O&M cost for SCARP TWs has become a heavy
financial burden for Provinci.  Governments (US$60.0 M annually), even though
the operating budgets allocated permit pumps to run at only about 35X of
installed capacity. Public TW operators pose a particularly difficult prob-
lem. Operators are frequently absent from their TW stations. Preferential
arrangements between the operator and some farmers are not unusual. Attempts
to discipline operators have' generally been unsuccessful because of a powerful
operators' union.
2.13     Surface Drains.  The older surface drains were designed with "rule-
of-thumb" criteria ranging from about 30 to 110 1/sec per square mile. This
design approach has proven to be inadequate. In addition, many areas are not
covered by a surface drainage system. Because of inadequate maintenance, most
of these drains have become clogged with sediment and weeds.
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Proiect (Cr. 1239-PAK)
2.14     ISRP-I was a five-year (PY83-87)-i-' project designed to finance
rehabilitation of deteriorated irrigation and surface drainage systems in all
four Provinces. The project was implemented by PIDs with coordination by a
Federal Coordination Cell (FCC) in the Office of the Chief Engineering Advisor
in the Ministry of Water and Power. The project provided for rehabilitating
1/ A three-year project with two one-year extensions.



-8-
(civil works) the surface irrigation and surface drainage systems, equipment
(emphasis on specialized O&M requirements), technical assistance (TA), training
and Federal coordination. The US$118.1 M project was co-financed by IDA and
USAID. Generally IDA assisted in the financing of civil works, local
supervisory consultants, and monitoring and evaluation, whereas USAID financed
a portion of the civil works, equipment, a team of foreigrn and local experts,
and training. Subsequent to the start of the project, USAID agreed with GOP
to significantly increase the amount of project equipment, which was provided
under an Agriculture Commodity Grant, and to increase TA and training under
ISM.
2.15     Proiect Obiectives.  The objectives of ISRP-I were to: (a) increase
agricultural production by providing a more reliable water supply and improving
the surface drainage system; (b) provide a more equitable irrigation water
supply; (c) strengthen the O&M capability of PIDS; and (d) serve as a Phase I
model for larger and continuing rehabilitation programs.
2.16     Civil Works.  ISRP-I provided funds for rehabilitating about 14,400
km of canals and resectioning about 3,500 km of surface drains. Guidelines
and criteria were established for selecting canals and surface drains to be
rehabilitated. Project guidelines emphasized rehabilitation of a complete
system or subsystem and those with inequitable water deliveries. In practice,
however, early ISRP-I rehabilitation efforts were concentrated on canal reaches
in most danger of being breached. Following a slow first year tiiere was steady
and satisfactory implementation progress. As of June 30, 1987, about 90% of
the physical and financial targets of ISRP-I had been met. The quality of
civil works completed was generally satisfactory and improved throughout the
project period.
2.17     Equipment and related facilities were provided to improve PIDs'
efficiency in carrying out O&M activities and to improve the composition of
their fleets. The total value of the equipment provided was about US$50.0 M.
Also, the project provided for construction of new equipment workshops and
warehouses in both NWFP and Baluchistan and the rehabilitation of two
workshops in Sind. Additional machine tools were provided to all PID
workshops.
2.18     Technical Assistance and Training supplied by the project included:
(a) 1500 man-months of foreign and local experts (Planning Research
Corporation/Checchi) in the fields of equipment preventative maintenance, O&M
specialists, design engineers, institutional specialists, etc.; (b) 3,000 man-
months of local supervisory consultants to assist PIDs in implementing the
project; (c) monitoring and evaluation (M&E) assistance; and (d) 25 study
tours and extensive in-country training.
2.19     An international engineering consulting firm (Planning Research
Corporation/Checchi) cooperated with PID officials in: (a) improving 0 & M
programs; (b) preparing O&M manuals; (c) undertaking studies and analyses on
0&M requirements and water charges; (d) developing new hydraulic defign
criteria (HDC) for redesigning alluvial canals -- particularly those with
chronic hydraulic problems; (e) preparing design reports on several branch
canals; (f) facilitating efficient operation of equipment fleets and related
workshops and warehouses; (g) developing programs for management improvement
-- including micro computerization; and (h) providing manpower development and
training programs. Among other things the TA effort resulted in the



-9-
publication of about 225 reports. The initial stage of this program was
hampered by inadequate coordination, involvement and input by PIDs. Hence,
follow-up activities are required if full benefit from this effort is to be
realized.
2.20     The supervisory consultants (NESPAK) assisted the PIDs and FCC by:
(a) reviewing all plans and designs for technical compliance; (b) checking all
civil works against agreed specifications; (c) preparing quarterly and annual
progress reports and annual work plans; and (d) processing and certifying
reimbursement applications.
2.21     Monitoring and evaluating (M&E) assistance was supplied by WAPDA's
Alluvial Canals Observation Project (ACOP) and Planning and Investigation
(P&I) Divisions and included: identification of problematic channels and
carrying out of required field observations and data collection leading to
redesign of such channels; and impact evaluation of the project. The data
collection program was essential input to development of HDC. The procedures
and techniques developed for HDC need to be fully transferred to the PIDs.
Because of the scattered nature of ISRP-I works, benefits directly
attributable to the project were difficult to identify (para. 2.24).
2.22     The project provided a broad range of in-country and overseas training
covering such topics as surveying, design, construction, inspection, O&M,
computer, administration, budgeting, workshop and warehouse management,
mechanical and equipment operation, simulation and mathematical modelling, and
quality control. About 1,500 PID and GOP officials received formal in-country
training and 275 received formal overseas training including three at the
doctoral and 52 at the masters level. In addition, there were numerous foreign
study tours for Provincial and Federal officials, as well as significant
on-the-job training.
Experience with ISRP-I
2.23     Several problems developed and/or opportunities for further
improvement were noted during implementation of ISRP-I which require
additional follow-up, including:
(a) Strengthening PIDs. A major objective of ISRP-I was to strengthen
PIDs' capability to improve efficiency of system operation, and to
ensure continued and adequate maintenance of installed facilities.
Even though much was accomplished in this area, considerable
opportunity for improvement remains. For example, one of the reports
prepared by ISRP-I consultants (para. 2.19), "Recommendations for
Improved Operation and Maintenance of Rehabilitated Canal Systems",
identified eight priority areas requiring further work, i.e.,
funding, maintenance yardsticks, management, training, equipment
management, transportation and communication.
(b) Selection criteria were not fully adhered to in that PIDs chose to
give greater priority to rehabilitating problem reaches of canals and
drains rather than complete systems or subsystems. This approach was
understandable in ISRP-I because there were numerous areas requiring



- 10 -
immediate attention. However, this emergency situation has been
taken care of in ISRP-I, and this approach should be disallowed in
future projects of a similar nature.
(c)  Annual Work Plans were never completed on schedule (March 1) because
PIDs wanted to await finalization of the Provincial ADPs, which
authorize the level of fuading for the ensuing year. The Annual O&M
Programs of Work were not completed -- mainly because of other
stbstantive O&M work undertaken in cooperation with expatriate and
local experts. The logical time to complete the Annual Work Plans
appears to be July 31 of the fiscal year being programmed. The
requirement to prepare the Annual O&M Program of Work, as part of the
Annual Work Plan, must be complied with.
(d)  Tender documents for civil works used by PIDs require revision to
make them fully conform to Bank Guidelines. Punjab Province is in
the process of revising these documents, but they have not yet been
made available for IDA review.  The other Provinces plan to use the
revised documents prepared by Punjab.
(e)  Strengthening the Private Civil Works Contracting Industry.  The
program for strengthening the private civil works contracting
industry through equipment rental did not "get off the drawing board"
in ISRP-I. There remains a need to develop a viable private
contracting industry. In any future project two important changes
are required to accomplish this objective; first, revision of the
tender documents ((d) above) to ensure equitable treatment of
contractors by the PIDs; and second, invitation of bids for larger
packages, involving complete systems or subsystems, to attract and
develop larger private contractors.
Evaluation of ISRP-I
2.24     The ISRP-I evaluation reports prepared by consultants were generally
inadequate. The primary problem faced by the consultants was that ISRP-I
works were scattered, which made it difficult to isolate project related
economic impact from that of the rest of the system. The first report, which
was issued in August 1985 and covered 44 rehabilitated schemes, suffered from
lack of data on pre-project conditions.  A second report, on only 10 schemes,
was issued in May 1986.  This report was based on both pre- and
post-rehabilitation conditions; however, the sample was small.  The report
revealed a general improvement in irrigation supplies, particularly to chaks
located in the lower reaches of the system, and a commensurate impact on
agricultural production. The final report was completed in August 1987 and
covered the 41 distribu- taries and minors of the Muzaffargarh canal system in
Punjab. A major finding of this report was a significant increase in surface
water deliveries to about two-thirds of the tail-end chaks, indicating a more
equitable distribution brought about by project improvements. ISRP-I
evaluation reports did not record a single breach of a rehabilitated canal.
2.25     The satisfaction of Federal and Provincial officials with ISRP-I is
attested by the inclusion of funds in the Seventh Five-Year Plan (FY89-93) for
a continuing rehabilitation program and concept clearance of the Second
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (ISRP-II) as presented in the NESPAK
feasibility study (para. 1.02).



- 11 -
m. THE PROJECr(ISRP-J)
Obiect.!ves
3.01     The objectives of the project would be to:
(a.) increase agricultural production by: (i) providing a more reliable
water supply by reducing risk of failure and removing physical
constraints in the irrigation network, and (ii) reducing crop losses
resulting from rain flooding by improving the surface drainage system;
(b)  provide a more equitable irrigation water supply to farmers by
increasing deliveries to water deficient chaks mainly located in the
lower reaches of minors and distributaries, through a program of silt
removal and redesign of selected channels and outlets; and
(c)  strengthen the capabilities of the PIDs' O&M program to improve
efficiency in systems operation, and ensure adequate maintenance of
installed facilities.
Prolect Description
3.02     The Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project (ISRP-II) would
be implemented over a five-year period (FY89-93) in all four Provinces (see
Map IBRD 19946). The project would provide for rehabilitating designated
surface irrigation and surface drainage systems that have deteriorated because
of deferred maintenance (see Annex 1, Table 1 for a summary of estimated
project costs--detailed cost estimates are included in the project file).
Rehabilitation of public and private tubewells, subsurface tile drains and
flood protection works would be excluded, as these facilities are generally
covered in other projects, e.g., SCARP Transition Project (Cr. 1693-PAK) and
the Asian Development Bank funded (July 1987) Flood Protection Project.
Required equipment and related facilities, as well as technical assistance,
training, and incremental project supervision and administration would be
provided by the project. Irn many aspects, ISRP-II would be modelled after the
operational and institutional features of ISRP-I; however, certain
modifications are envisaged to achieve improved O&M of the systems including
greater assurance and equity in the distribution of irrigation water supplies
based on the experience gained in ISRP-I. These improvements include the
following:
(a) completion of required rehabilitation by systems/subsystems;
(b)  redesign of systems/subsystems as required (including outlets) to
improve irrigation water deliveries and equity, and reduce O&M costs;
(c)  installation of concrete and/or masonry lining on selected reaches of
minors and smaller distributaries;
(d)  adherence to agreed specifications;
(e) modernizing PIDs' program management to improve efficiency of O&M.



- 12 -
Detailed Features
(A) Civil Works (Base Cost US$106.3 M)
3.03     Civil works to be funded by the project would include canal and
surface drainage systems rehabilitation, and facilities for PIDs and the
International Irrigation Management Institute. (see Annex 1, Table 2 for
estimated costs for civil works).
3.04     Systems Rehabilitation (Base Cost US$100.8 M).  During project
preparation for ISRP-II, PIDs prepared an inventory of rehabilitation work;
that completed under ISRP-I, that proposed for ISRP-II, and the balance
remaining. This inventory is summarized in Table 3.1. It would appear from
this PID inventory that about 60% of Pakistan's surface irrigation and surface
drainage systems required rehabilitation at the initiation of ISRP-I. About
252 of the required earthwork will be completed in ISRP-I and another 322 is
proposed to be undertaken in ISRP-II. However, care should be exercised in
utilizing data on the balance remaining because of the reconnaissance nature
of the inventory and PIDs' estimate of the number of systems/subsystems
requiring rehabilitation.
Table 3.1: INVENTORY OF REHABILITATION WORK COMPLETED,
PROPOSED AND BALANCE REMAINING A/
ISRP-I           ISRP-II            Balance              Total
Earth             Earth               Earth                Earth
L     Work       L      Work        L       Work         L       Work
Canals    9,064   2,234   13,429   3,070    17,168    3,959    39,661         9,263
Drains    1,898      380    1,296      274     1,271       520      4,465     1,174
Total    10,962   2,614   14,725   3,344    18,439    4,479    44,126k'  10,437
M)        (25)      (25)    (33)      (32)     (42)       (43)     (100)    (100)
a/  Length (L) in km and earthwork in M cft.
bJ Total length of Pakistan's Indus canals and drains is about 73,000 km
Source: NESPAK, Ibid.
3.05     The project would rehabilitate selected surface irrigation and
surface drainage schemes, most of which have been identified in the "ISRP-II
Feasibility Report", NESPAK, April 1987 (rev.). Rehabilitation work would be
carried out on about 13,500 km of irrigation channels and 1,300 km of surface
drains, which would benefit approximately 4.1 M ha of irrigated lands and
about 825,000 ha of these lands would also be afforded improved surface
drainage (see Table 3.2 for details). This rehabilitation would comprise
earthwork (about 3,300 M cft), stonework (about 12.0 M cft), concrete-work
(about 8.4 M cft) and masonry (about 8.5 M cft) for the repair of the damaged
or deteriorated portions of channel prisms and embankments and related
structures. Civil works would include rehabilitation of earthen sections,
repair and replacement of structures including outlets, and installation of



- 13 -
concrete and/or masonry lining (generally limited to canal channels of one
m3/sec capacity or less and identified as having hydraulic problems).  In
case of canals in the Indus system, canal rehabilitation would be limited to
present operating or design capacities as defined iii IS1P-I. 1'
Table 3.2:  ESTIMATED QUANTITIES OF REHABILITATION AND BENEFITED AREAS
Quantities (000 cft)                Benefited Area
Earth   Stone   Concrete  Brick    cca (000 ha)    Length   (km)
Provinces       Work    Work       Work    Work    Canals   Drains  Canals  Drains
Punjab       1,850,000   4,250   1,650   7,500    2,970       640    9,900    950
Sind         1,405,000      300   2,450   1,000       870     140    2,700    250
NWFP            41,600   5,150   2,675        -       250      45       650    100
Baluchistan     47,200   2,400   1,575       -         45       -       200     -
Total        3,343,800  12,100   8,350   8,500    4,135       825   13,450  1,300
Source: NESPAK, Ibid.
3.06     Canal systems/subsysteus would be rehabilitated in the following
manner. The PIDs would complete an assessment 2/ of the proposed canal
systems/subsystems to be rehabilitated for the purpose of obtaining an inventory
of existing conditions and determining problem reaches. A detailed explanation
of the procedures and the criteria for determining problem reaches within these
systems/subsystems, along with the appropriate design approach, is included in
Annex 2. Results of the updated Condition Survey, along with proposed solutions
would be submitted to the respective external aid donor for review and comment.
All subsystems agreed to be free of hydraulic problems by the PIDs and the aid
donor would be rehabilitated in accordance with practices followed on most
schemes completed under ISRP-I, i.e., rehabilitating the canal banks, and if
needed, restoring canal prisms to their normal section by cleaning and/or "killa
bushing."-' However, systems/subsystems with hydraulic problem(s) would be
redesigned to achieve the best possible solution to the problem(s), including
lining of selected reaches, and modification of structures and outlets. For
redesign of alluvial channels, it is anticipated that the Hydraulic Design
Criteria (HDC) agreed in ISRP-I and ISM would be increasingly utilized, as these
criteria become tested and required data become available. In redesigning
systems/subsystems, it is essential that relevant upstream and/or downstream
parts of the systems be included in the analysis and design. Especially
1/ Present operating capacity is defined as the maximum quantity of water now
conveyed by a facility, whereas design capacity is defined as the capacity
to which the facility was constructed in line with PID specifications and
for which detailed designs were prepared prior to June 30, 1981.
2/ This would be an updating of the Condition Survey, which is required of PIDs
every five years.
3/ "killa bushing" - use of brush and stakes as sediment traps.



- 14 -
significant in this redesigning mode is the readjustment of outlets as required
for achieving the goal of greater equity in water deliveries; however, in
ISRP-II rehabilitated systems/subsystems no outlet would receive less water
supply than its authorized entitlement. The evaluation program for ISRP-I
(para. 2.24) reported a general improvement in irrigation water supplies
particularly to chaks located in tail reaches of distributaries and minors.
Even though the major benefits of ISRP-II are envisaged through greater
assurance and equity in irrigation deliveries, further increases in water
supplies are forecast in ISRP-II as compared to ISRP-I because of the emphasis
placed on design and funding for lining. Based on the experience of the
Command Water Management Project (Cr. 1487-PAK) these increases in water
supplies at the outlets are estimated at about 2 to 3%, or a total of over 650
M m annually in the ISRP-II service area.
3.07     The document titled "Specification for Execution of Works 1967-Volume
I Part II" (Publication No. 2 of West Pakistan Standing Rate Committee) as
modified only in respect to earthwork during ISRP-I in a document titled,
"Civil Works - Specifications for Earthwork," R.NSPAK, are sacisfactory to IDA
and will be followed for all ISRP-II rehabilitation work. Care will be
exercised to ensure that all specifications are met, with particular attention
to earthwork compaction and quality of brick, concrete and masonry works.
Assurance has been obtained from GOP and the Provinces that the design program
and specifications described in paras. 3.06 and 3.07 would be followed. Since
ISRP-II is largely a repeater project, PIDs' design cells, as part of their
on-going design program have completed the design of canals and surface drains
scheduled for rehabilitation during the first year of the project period
(FY89). Generally, the m 9 rehabilitation program will focus on canals and
surface drains that do not require redesign. Typical rehabilitated cross
sections for main canals, branches, distributaries and minors are shown in
Plates III and IV.
3.08     The maximum civil works investment cost per hectare of cca (Jan. 1988
prices) should not exceed Rs 800 for rehabilitating schemes in the Indus
system. Schemes not within these per hectare costs would be rehabilitated
only following consultation with the appropriate co-financing entity, and if
an economic analysis by the PID showed an economic rate of return (ERR)
greater than 152.
3.09     Canal systems or subsystems outside the Indus system proposed for
rehabilitation under the project would need to meet the following criteria:
(a) commanded area would not be less than 100 ha;
(b) scheme would benefit at least 25 farm families;
(c) 80S dependable and available storage in a supply reservoir should not
be less than 7,500 m3 per cropped hectare; whereas the minimum flow
from supplying streams should provide a minimum of 0.05 m3/sec (802
dependable) at the headworks during the period of critical crop water
requirement for each 50 ha cropped; -' and
1/ The apparent higher water duty from streams versus storage results
from efficiency inherent ho stored water, whereby releases can be
varied to better meet crop water requirements.



- 15 -
(d)    rehabilitation costs:  (i) existing commanded area should not exceed
Rs 3,250 per ha; and (ii) incremental commanded areas should not
exceed Rs 9,000 per ha (Jan. 1988 prices).
Schemes not meeting the water duty in (c) above and exceeding permissible
rehabilitation cost per hectare in (d) above could be included in the proposed
project, following consultation with and approval by the appropriate
co-financing entity, and if an economic analysis by the PIDs has shown an ERR
greater than 15b.
3.10     PID Facilities (Base Cost US$3.7 M).  The project would improve PID
workshops and warehouse facilities, with major improvement identified for
Lahore and Bhalwal in Punjab and Jamshoro in Sind. The project would also
provide funds for rehabilitating office space for planning and design
operations. In addition, staff houses for planning, design, and project
management staff personnel is also planned for all Provinces.
3.11     International Irrigation Management Institute Pakistan Facilities
(Base Cost US$1.8 M). GOP and the Governing Board of the International
Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) have agreed to establish a Pakistan
Branch at Lahore. Under the agreement, GOP is to provide the facilities and
IIMI is to provide the operating funds. This branch would work in such areas
as improved use and efficiency of irrigation water, on farm water management
and drainage. GOP has approved a PC-1 for this activity with the Agricultural
Research Division (ARD) as the sponsoring agency. The project would provide
funds to ARD through the FCC to assist in the construction of IIMI Branch
facilities in Lahore.
(B) Equipment (Base Cost US$31.5 M)
3.12     The project would provide a broad range of construction, surveying,
office (including computers) and telecommunication equipment and related
spares. Construction equipment and related spares provided would augment the
specialized O&M equipment procured under ISRP-I as well as the existing PID
fleet. On a pilot basis (para. 5.09), the project would provide about 70
units of light O&M equipment (50 HP farm tractors with blade, trolleys, water
tank, compactor, pick-up trucks, etc.) to be supplied to selected divisions or
subdivisions to determine relative efficiency of such equipment versus manual
labor, which is becoming difficult to secure. A large amount of spares are
envisaged to be procured to repair non or poorly-functioning heavy PID
equipment -- much of which was provided under the 1973 Flood Rehabilitation
Program (Cr. 466-PAK) and 1976 Flood Restoration Project (Cr. 683-PAK). The
specialized O&M equipment would include small to medium size drag lines,
hydraulic excavators, small motorgraders, dredgers, mobile cranes, compactors,
transport, etc. (see Annex 1, Table 3 for lists of proposed equipment and
estimated costs).
(C) Technical Assistance (Base Cost US$12.2 M)
3.13     The project would provide about 47 man-years of experts to aid the
PIDs in specialized O&M activities, design of schemes, and construction/
inspection. These experts would build upon the experiences gained in ISRP-I.



- 16 -
Among these experts, an O&M specialist would be appointed to assist the PIDs
in improving O&M programs and procedures. This specialiat would assist each
PID in undertaking a review and analysis of ongoing O&M activities with a view
to preparing Annual O&M Programs of Work, which would indicate the nature and
amount of work required to adequately and appropriately operate and maintain
all facilities assigned to the PIDs and related requirements of manpower and
financial resources. An O&M Program of Work for each PID would be completed
by July 31 of each year and would be included in each Province's Annual
Project Work Plan (para 5.03). A civil work construction specialist would
also be appointed to aid PIDs in improving efficiency of PID managed equipment.
In addition, a design engineer would be appointed to assist the PIDs in the
design of rehabilitated schemes. Specifically, this expert would emphasize
redesign of canal reaches that are experiencing chronic sedimentation or
scouring conditions (para 3.06). Such redesign would be consistent with
design criteria for remodeling canals agreed in ISRP-I. These specialists
would assist the PIDs in developing and carrying out training programs for
counterpart officials and technical personnel. The assessment and evaluation
of the PID's organizational management practices and procedures would be done
principally by local specialists; however, about one man-year of short-term
internationally recruited experts would be required by the FCC to develop,
implement and monitor an organizational development and management program.
In addition, the project would provide: (a) about 225 man-years of
supervisory consultants to assist the Federal Coordinating Cell and PIDs (see
para. 5.06 for details) in implementing the project; and, (b): funds for
preparing future agriculrural related water sector projects in Pakistan (see
Annex 1, Table 5 for estimated costs).
(D) Training (Base Cost US$10.1 M)
3.14       The project would provide the following training (see Annex 1,
Table 5 for estimate of costs):
(a) about 25 study tours to both technically advanced and developing
countries with comparable irrigation and surface drainage facilities;
(b)  in-country and on-the-job training on O&M programs and procedures for
900 staff with the rank of Assistant Engineer and above; and
(c)  in-country and on-the-job training for staff with equipment workshop
and warehouse responsibilities.
(E) Supervision and Administration (Base Cost US$22.8 M)
3.15     The project would provide funds for staffing the FCC (para. 5.02) in
the Office of the Chief Engineering Advisor to the Ministry of Water and Power.
The project would provide Eor incremental PID staffs involved in project
supervision administration and engineering (para. 5.03 to 5.05) including staff
assigned to the Provincial Project Coordinators' Offices. The project would
also provide funds for direct support to PIDs, including the following: (a)
monitoring and evaluation (para. 5.10 to 5.14); (b) management support; (c)
equipment management; (d) planning and design; (e) operation and maintenance;
(f) development of manuals; (g) mapping, etc. (see Annex 1, Table 4 for
estimated costs).



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, AND PROCUREMENT
Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditures
4.01     Total project cost is estimated at about US$220.4 M equivalent, with
a foreign exchange component of about US$66.4 or 302. Estimates are based on
July 1987 prices and include about US$16.7 in taxes and duties.- The cost
of civil works is based on experience of ISRP-I and reflects FY88 contract
costs and recent cost of operating PID equipment. Physical contingencies are
assumed to be 102 on all items. Price contingencies are estimated as follows
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93
Foreign Costs        5.5     2.5      0.4     1.2      1.2
Local Costs          7.0     7.0      6.0     4.0      1.2
Estimated project costs are summarized in Tables 4.1 and 4.2.  More detail is
given in Annex 1.
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
Estimated Costs
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Forei.n   Total
---Rs M----   -- ------U
1. Civil Works              1753.7    133.1    1886.8        98.8       7.5    106.3
2.  Equipment                 27.7    531.1      558.8        1.6      29.9     31.5
3.  Technical Assist.         64.7    151.6      216.3        3.6       8.6     12.2
4.  Training                  53.4    125.7      179.1        3.0       7.1     10.1
5.  Supervision & Adm.       364.0      40.8     404.8       20.5       2.3     22.8
Base Cost             2263.5    982.3    3245.8       127.5     55.4    182.9
6.  Physical Conting.        226.3      98.3     324.6       12.8       5.5     18.3
7.  Price Contingencies      500.1    175.3      675.4       13.7       5.5     19.2
Total Cost              2989.9   1255.9    4245.8       154.0     66.4    220.4
Table 4.2:  COST SUMMARY BY GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY
Estimated Costs
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
~-Rs M---                  ~US$M  -   -
1. Punjab                   1084.1    368.4    1452.5        61.1      20.7     81.8
2.  Sind                     502.2    219.4      721.6       28.3      12.4     40.7
3.  NWFP                     160.4      51.1     211.5        9.0       2.9     11.9
4.  Baluchistan              142.8      38.5     181.3        8.0       2.2     10.2
5.  FCC                      374.0    304.9      678.9       21.1      17.2     38.3
Base Cost             2263.5    982.3    3245.8       127.5     55.4    182.9
6.  Physical Conting.        226.3      98.3     324.6       12.8       5.5     18.3
7.  Price Contingencies      500.1    175.3      675.4       13.7       5.5     19.2
Total Cost              2989.9   1225.9    4245.8       154.0     66.4    220.4
1/  Based on the assumption that duties on equipment would be waived as in
ISRP-I.



- 18 -
Financing
4.02     The IDA Credit of SDR 58.2 M (US$79.5 M) would finance about 14% of
foreign exchange cost, and about 461 of local cost, or about 381 of total
project cost net of taxes and duties. It is expected that USAID and the
Netherlands would co-finance an additional US$103.8 M, witeh would cover 86%
of foreign exchange cost and about 30% of local cost or an additional 52% of
total project cost net of taxes and duties. GOP and the Provinces would
finance the remaining US$37.1 M equivalent, including taxes and duties, or 171
of total project cost. Approval of the Project's PC-1 by ECNEC and meeting
all conditions of effectiveness of the USAID and Dutch funding would be
conditions of Credit effectiveness.
4.03     USAID would assist in financing all equipment, training, long-term TA
and direct support to PIDs (except for M&E), and a portion of the civil works
in Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan Provinces (about 501 of the surface drains,
201 of the canal rehabilitation and most PID facilities). The Netherlands
would assist in financing all civil works in NWFP and a proportional share of
the supervisory consultants. IDA would aid in financing the remainder of the
civil works in Punjab, Sind and Baluchistan, including staff housing, all IIMI
facilities as well as M&E consultants, and the balance of supervisory
consultants. Table 4.3 shows the proposed financing plan.
Table 4.3: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
(us$ M)
Total   GOP and          External  Financing          2
Cost  Provinces  IDA  USAID  Netherlands  Total  IDA
1.  Civil Works             128.6      25.8   70.6    24.2      8.0      102.8    55
2.  Equipment                37.5        -      -      37.5      -        37.5     -
3.  Technical Assist.        14.7       0.9    6.6      6.7     0.5       13.8    45
4.  Training                 12.2        -      -      12.2      -        12.2     -
5.  Supervision & Adm.       27.4      10.4    2.3    14.7       -        17.0
TOTAL             220.4     37.1   79.5    95.3       8.5     183.3    36
Disbursements
4.04     IDA and USAID plan to follow the same disbursement procedures for
ISRP-II as in ISRP-I, i.e. withdrawal applications for IDA and Fixed Amount
Reimbursement for USAID. The Netherlands propose to establish a trust fund to
be administered by IDA.
4.05     The IDA Credit and Netherlands financing would te disbursed for:
(a) 801 of the cost of civil works; and
(b)  902 of the cost of local supervisory consultants, project
preparation and the monitoring and evaluation program.



- 19 -
Disbursements for item (a) above would be made against statements of
expenditure (SOE) for all force account work and contracts below Rs 500,000.
For civil works contracts of Rs 500,000 or more and for item (b) above
disbursements would be made against full documentation. PIDs and FCC, assisted
by the supervisory consultants, would be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications for submission to IDA. These applications should be in amounts
of Rs 1.0 M or more. All disbursements from the Credit would be on a
reimbursement basis, consequently a special account is not necessary. FCC,
assisted by the supervisory consultants, would maintain consolidated budget
ledgers for the project. It is anticipated that final disbursement for the
project would be made by December 31, 1993, about iix months after the end of
project implementation. The estimated IDA disbursement schedule is in Annex
1, Table 6. This schedule is patterned after the disbursement profile of
ISRP-I with emphasis on the latter years of that project, which reflect the
increaring capability of PIDs to carry out rehabilitation works, as well as
the normal elapsed time (up to six months) between completion of civil works
and submission of withdrawal applications.
Procurement
4.06     Project items financed with USAID assistance would be procured
following procedures satisfactory to USAID; procurement of items cofinanced by
IDA and the Netherlands would follow procedures satisfactory to IDA; and
procurement of items totally financed by GOP and the Provinct-s would follow
applicable government procedures. Procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 4.4 and described in more detail below (paras 4.07 to 4.09).
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (US$M)
Procurement Method          Total
LCB      Other      N.A.       Cost
Civil Works             88.3 /a    10.1 /b    30.2 /c    128.6
(63.2)/a    (7.4)/b                (70.6)
Equipment                                      37.5 /c      37.5
Technical Assistance                 8.0 /d     6.7 /c      14.7
(6.6)/d                (6.6)
Train:ng                                       12.2 /c      12.2
Supervision & Adm.                             27.4 /e      27.4
_(2.3)f      (2.3)
88.3       18.1      114.0        220.4
Total        (63.2)      (14.0)     ( 2.3)       (79.5)
/a Since the civil works relate to small and widely scattered schemes,
international competitive bidding (ICB) is not appropriate.
/b Drain work and repair cf structures by PID force account.
_/c USAID procedures.
Ld "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" World Bank (August 1981).
/e GOP/Provincial procedures.
/f Interagency agreement between FCC and M&E organization.
Note: Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA.



- 20 -
4.07     Civil Works.   Civil works construction, consisting of about
1,250 to schemes in four Provinces, would be carried out over a five year
period. Since the schemes are small and widely scattered, it is impracticable
to group them into packages that would be large enough to attract international
bidders. Therefore, the project's civil works would be carried out under the
following methods: (a) local competitive bidding (LCB) by private contractors
for works that do not involve underwater or excessive marshy areas, cleaning
of surface drains and work on the wet prism section of canals during
non-closure periods; (b) force account 1/ using PID equipment for cleaning
and resectioning surface drains and rehabilitation of the wet prism section of
operating canals; and (c) force account for repair and replacement of hydraulic
srurctures.  LCB procedures used by PIDs have been reviewed and found
satisfactory to IDA, except for tender documents. Steps to improve tender
documents have already been taken with IDA assistance under the ongoing Command
Water Management Project (Cr. 1487-PAK) and the documents resulting from that
effort would be used for this project. Contractors would not be required to
prequalify and domestic preference would not be applicable. Bid documents for
all contracts co3ting over US$200,000 would be reviewed by IDA prior to PIDs
inviting bids. Force account rates for use of PIDs equipment shall be cleared
with IDA. These rates would be based on estimated actual operating costs,
which would exclude depreciation of equipment and spares on items providid by
the project or previously financed by IDA. Assurances have been obtained from
GOP and the Provinces that procedures employed for procurement of civil works
would be satisfactory to IDA.
4.08     There is a need to encourage and strengthen the private civil works
contracting industry in Pakistan (para. 2.23). This program will be encouraged
in this project by: (a) packaging schemes by PIDs, generally to include
complete systems/subsystems, that will attract civil works contractors with
required equipment; (b) improving tender documents, which would further ensure
fair treatment for contractors in regard to their relation to PIDs; and (c)
providing project supplied equipment to augment contractors fleet based on
appropriate agreement between PID and contractor to ensure required O&M of such
equipment.
4.09     Consultants.  Appointment of suitably qualified supervisory
consultants (para 5.06) financed by IDA and the Netherlands would comprise
about 225 man-years. Their appointment, as well as the appointment of
consultants for project preparation (para 3.13), would be in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency," published by the Bank in August 1981.
Assurance has been obtained from GOP that such consultants would be appointed
following procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Accounts and Audits
4.10     PIDs and FCC would be subject to normal GOP and Provincial
expenditure control and auditing procedures. Preject accounts would be
maintained separately by the PIDs and FCC and in a readily identifiable form.
All project accounts would be audited separately from the overall accounts by
1/ NESPAK, Ibid (however this number would be diminished somewhat by
packaging of schemes through the system/subsystem approach).
2/ Work carried out departmentally by PIDs following Provincial procedures.



- 21 -
an independent auditor on a timely basis. Assurances have been obtained from
GOP and the Provinces that: (a) project accounts would be audited annually
and separately for the PIDs and FCC by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA; (b) copies of the audit reports would be sent to IDA not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year; and (c) the audit reports would
include an opinion as to whether IDA funds withdrawn on the basis of SOEs have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided. GOP and the Provinces
have been informed that audit reports should be submitted to IDA on a timely
basis to avoid possible cessation of disbursements because of non-compliance.
V. PROJECT IMPLMEATION AND OPERATON AND MAITANCE
Institutional Arrangements
5.01     The institutional arrangements for ISRP-II are essentially the same
as those for ISRP-I. The PIDs would be responsible for implementing the
project in each of the four Provinces. The Federal Ministry of Water and
Power, through a Federal Coordination Cell (FCC) in its Office of Chief
Engineering Advisor, would be responsible for inter-Provincial coordination
and for supplying the required technical assistance and training.
5.02     Federal Coordination Cell.  The FCC was organized in the Office of the
Chief Engineering Advisor for ISRP-I (see Organization Chart -- Flate V). It
will continue to carry out most of the same responsibilities in ISRP-II. FCC
would be headed by a senior officer (Jhief Engineer or equivalent rank), who
would be assisted by appropriate support staff, supervisory consultants and
other experts. The cell's major responsibilities would include: (a)
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating project activities; (b) preparing
consolidated specifications for project supplied equipment, spares, and machine
tools; (c) reviewing PIDs Annual Work Plans to determine consistency with
project targets and Implementation Schedule (Annex 3); (d) reviewing PIDs
Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports and preparing consolidated progress
reports for submission to IDA within 60 days of the end of each reporting
period; (e) preparing the Project Completion Report -' within six months of
the closing date of the project; and (f) monitoring project's disbursements and
audits and facilitating compliance with agreements with IDA (paras 4.02, 4.07,
4.09 and 4.10).
5.03     Provincial Irrigation Departments.  PIDs would be responsible for
implementing the project, which would include: (a) selecting schemes to be
rehabilitated based upon agreed criteria (paras 3.06 to 3.09); (b) preparing
plans and detailed designs for schemes to be rehabilitated in line with agreed
specifications (para 3.07) (c) constructing required civil works and project
facilities; (d) preparing specifications for all project related equipment,
spares and machine tools; (e) operating and maintaining systems; (f)
monitoring of project progress and monitoring and evaluation of physical
operation of rehabilitated systems/subsystems; (g) maintaining separate
accounts for the project; (h) certifying quantity and quality of completed
project work; (i) preparing IDA withdrawal applications with the assistance of
the supervisory consultants; (j) preparing Quarterly and Annual Progress



- 22 -
Reports for the project and submitting them to the FCC within 30 days of the
close of each reporting period; and (k) preparing an Annual Provincial Project
Work Plan by July 31 for that fiscal year. Such Annual Work Plan would
include, among other things, an Annual O&M Program of Work (para 5.09), and a
list of proposed schemes to be rehabilitated, as well as identified source of
anticipated external financing (para 4.03). Assurance has been obtained from
GOP and GOProvinces that copies of the Annual Work Plan, including the Annual
O&M Work Program would be submitted to IDA by September 30 of the fiscal year
covered by the report.                                                        J
5.04     Each PID is headed by a Secretary.  He is assisted by a secretariat
staff in his office and a number of Chief Engineers who supervise field
operations in the various regions. Regional commands are further subdivided
into Circles, Divisions, Sub-Divisions and Sections under the respective
jurisdictions of Superintending Engineers, Executive Engineers (Xen),
Assistant Engineers, and Sub-Engineers (see PIDs Organizational Charts, Plates
VI to IX). Generally, the Divisional or Sub-Divisional Officer in charge of
the canal is entrusted with the O&M of drains and flood protection works,
including flood fighting within his jurisdiction. To take care of revenue
work (assessments) in Punjab and NWFP, a Canal Collector is attached to every
Regional Chief Engineer; however, collections are made by the Provincial
Revenue Departments. The Canal Collector is assisted by Deputy Collectors,
Zilladars and Patwaris. In Sind and Baluchistan, assessments and collection
of water charges and land revenues are entrusted to the Provincial Revenue
Department.
5.05     Except for Punjab where a "project approach" is to be employed, the
other three PIDs plan to use the same institutional arrangement as for ISRP-I,
i.e., Provincial Project Coordinator (PPC) at the level of Chief Engineer
reporting directly to the Secretary. The PPC would be responsible for seeing
that all PID activities (para 5.03) are expeditiously and efficiently carried
out. In addition, the PPC would coordinate PID activities with the FCC.
Planning and design would be under the PPC, however all rehabilitation work
would be handled by the existing line and staff command - generally at the
Xen level or lower. In the case of Punjab, and in recognition of the larger
work load, the position of PPC would be upgraded to that of Project Director
(PD). This PD would have line responsibility with a separate construction
cadre, which would operate independently of the existing PID field staff.
5.06     Supervisory Consultants.  The project would provide about 225 man-
years of supervisory consultants plus supporting staff as follows:
Profession                   No.           Man-Years
Project Engineer              1               5.5
Resident Engineers            4              22.0
Field Engr. (Civil)          16              88.0
Office Engineers              3              16.0
Sub-engineers                16              88.0
Coordination Engineer         1               5.5
225.0
1/        The project completion report shall, among other things, include a
status of the OM of the irrigation systems for each Province, along
with an assessment, including recommendations as appropriate to
ensure the continued functional integrity of these systems.



- 23 -
This team would report to the Project Coordinator in FCC and would assist the
PCC and the PIDs in carrying out their responsibilities. Terms of reference
of the supervisory consultants are included in Annex 4. Services to be
performed by these consultants include: (a) spot check updated condition
surveys and related analyses and conclusion on identification of hydraulic
problems; (b) reviewing plans and deFigns for civil works to assure compliance
with agreed criteria and specifications; (c) spot-checking civil works during
construction and checking all completed works to determine if quantity and
quality of work completed meets PIDs' specifications and so certifying on the
reimbursement applicetions, (d) monitor progress to determine status of
project in relation to Implementation Schedule (Annex 3); (e) review PIDs
An,nual Work Plan to ascertain eligibility of schemes to be rehabilitated,
schedules and levels of Provincial funding for rehabilitating schemes, and
adequacy of Annual O&M Program of Work including analyses of O&M funding to
ensure maintenance of financing in FY87-88 real terms for on-going and new
schemes (para. 5.08) (f) prepare consolidated Quarterly and Annual Progress
Reports and Project Completion Report; and (g) prepare consolidated Annual
Project Work Plan, and maintain centralized budget control. Activities (b)
and (c) relate only to IDA and Netherlands assisted schemes, whereas items
(a), (d), (e) (f) and (g) pertain to the project. For USAID assisted schemes,
supervision of design and construction would be by USAID/GOP supplied consul-
tants, and clearance of scheme and disbursement would be by USAID personnel.
As a condition for effectiveness, GOP would enter into an agreement with a
firm for supplying the supervisory consultants.
Operation and Maintenance (O0g)
5.07     During appraisal of ISRP-I, it was determined that inadequate funding
was a major reason for deferred maintenance, which threatened the operating
integrity of the irrigation systems. Hence, a major covenant of ISRP-I
(Cr. 1239-PAK) was the establishment of O&M allocation targets for the PID
operated "irrigation systems" (irrigation, flood control and surface drainage
facilities, and related establishment costs but excluding public TWs). Table
5.1 shows the agreed targets for the five-year period (FY83 to 8:) and actual
Provincial allocations. The four Provinces allocated funding in their Revenue
Budgets which considerably exceeded the agreed targets (by about Rs 700 M in
FY87). The rate of increase was over 15% annually during the last five years.
However, the allocation increases have been somewhat distorted by including O&M
funds for non-irrigation systems activities, such as domestic water supply,
small hydels, research, etc.
Table 5.1: TARGETED LEVELS AND ACTUAL O&M FUNDING (Rs M)
FY 83      FY 84      FY 85       FY 86        FY 87
Target (Constant FY81) 793.5       882.5      971.5      1034.5      1037.5
Target (Current)       877.7      1056.6     1203.3      1323.5      1374.5
Allocation             937.2      1079.1     1331.6      1745.3      2072.1



- 24 -
5.08     Since significant progress has been made in Provincial O&M
allocations to PIDs, emphasis in ISRP-II would be in two areas: (a) improving
the capability and efficiency of PIDs in carrying out O&M activities; and (b)
maintaining in real terms the level of O&M funding achieved using the FY88
funding as the benchmark. On the matter of O&M funding, a revised definition
of the words "irrigation systems" would be used henceforth. This definition
would limit the "irrigation systems" to surface irrigation and subsurface
saline drainage facilities, with the understanding that groundwater irrigation
facilities have been excluded because of the forthcoming "privatization"
program for public TWs in FGW areas (para 6.17). Table 5.2 provides
projections of annual O&M allocations required by the Provinces to maintain
O&M funding to cover domestic inflation and new schemes added to Pakistan's
irrigation systems during the ISRP-II implementation period. Assurance has
been obtained from all four Provinces that the current level of O&M funding
for the surface irrigation and subsurface saline drainage facilities would be
maintained in real terms including appropriate O&M funding for new projects
that become operational during the implementation period.
Table 5.2: PROJECTED REQUIREMENTS FOR O&M ALLOCATIONS
(Rs M)   /a
Base Year
Province                 FY 88      pY 89     FY 90      FY 91      FY 92     FY 93
Puniab
Existing Proj.         799.4      855.3     906.7      961.0      981.9    1019.6
New Proj.    /b           -          -      168.8      179.0      184.3     189.9
Sub-total           799.4     855.3    1075.5    1140.0    1174.2    1209.4
Sind
Existing Proj.         625.0     668.5      708.5      750.9      773.3     796.4
New Proj.    /b          8.3        9.2       9.8       10.5       11.0       11.4
Sub-total           633.3     677.7      718.3      761.4      784.3     807.8
NWFP
Existing Proj.         167.9      179.6     190.4      213.4      224.1     231.9
New Proj.    /b           -         7.5       8.0        8.5        8.7        9.0
Sub-total           167.9     187.1      198.4      221.9     232.8      240.9
Baluchistan
Existing Proj.         103.3      110.5     117.1      124.2      127.9     131.7
New Proj.    /b           -         6.7       7.1        7.5        7.7        7.9
Sub-total           103.3     117.2      124.2      131.7     135.6      139.6
GRAND TOTAL       1703.9    1837.3    2116.4    2255.0    2326.9    2397.7
/a   Local inflation rate (see para 4.01)
/b   Info on O&M for new projects supplied by PIDs
5.09     Steps to improve the PID O&M capability would involve institutional
strengthening through training, assessment and streamlining of organizational
management procedures, and supplying additional specialized O&M equipment. By



- 25 -
July 31 of each year, each PID would prepare an Annual O&M Program of Work
which would become an essential element of the Annual Work Plan. This Program
of Work would be adopted by the Secretary and would identify O&M activities to
be carried out on a regular and continuing basis, and those that require
specific attention during the respective fiscal year. These activities would
be identified as to location, scale of work, unit and total cost, manpower and
equipment requirements, and assignment of specific responsibility as well as
providing for contingencies. A section would be included in the annual O&M
Program of Work which would compare O&M allocations for the fiscal year with
those of the bench mark year (FY88) in real terms allowing for O&M requirements
of new schemes added since that time. Also, the PIDs would include an
evaluation of O&M work accomplished in the previous fiscal year and its
relevance to project objectives and the annual O&M Program of Work for that
year to ensure operation of the systems within design parameters. The PIDs,
assisted by project provided experts, would continue to update O&M manuals and
improve O&M techniques related to both civil works, and workshop and warehouse
operations. The following specific activities would be initiated under
ISRP-II to improve t}e efficiency of the PIDs' O&M program:
(a) institute improved and computerized programs for collection,
compilation and analysis of O&M related data;
(b) prepare operating procedures and maintenance standards for
rehabilitated systems/subsystems;
(e) establish and utilize maintenance yardsticks in budget prej.ration,
prepare and carry out annual O&M Programs of Work, evaluate results
and update yardsticks accordingly;
(d) develop monitoring and inspection capability within each PID;
(e) facilitate maintenance program through efficient and progressive
utilization of specialized O&M equipment (para. 3.12). About 70 such
units would be supplied initially (i.e. Punjab 40, Sind 20, NWFP 5,
and Baluchistan 5) and if the evaluation of the program is positive,
it could be expanded at a later date.
(f) establish on a research and demonstration basis, a vegetative program
for embankments of seeding and/or turfing, particularly in the
northern region of Punjab and NWFP. It is envisaged that FCC, in
cooperation with the PIDs, would arrange for this program through a
Pakistani research organization such as the Pakistan Agricultural
Research Council and for Provincial Agricultural Research Institutes;
and,
(g) evaluate the organizational environment of PIDs with the view of
adopting policies and methods to develop effective staff and resource
utilization.  This evaluation would be included in the annual O&M
Program of Work.



- 26 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10     A principal objective of ISRP-II (para 3.01) is to improve overall
efficiency and equity of irrigation water deliveries. To achieve this
objective, an effectiva monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program will be
instituted to provide:
(a) information and analysis on a continuing basis for PID internal
management decisions relating to system rehabilitation and O&M; and,
(b) an economic asscssment of project benefits and distributive effects
for the consideration of GOP, GOProvinces and aid donor agencies.
5.11     Internal Monitoring and Analyses.  PIDs would be responsible for
collecting, reviewing, and monitoring internal information regarding the
physical and financial aspects of the project within their respective
Provinces. They would prepare Quarterly and Annual Progress Reports and submit
them to FCC within 30 days of the end of each reporting period. This activity
would provide project management with early warning signals regarding current
and/or potential implementation problems and the status and progress of the
project as related to the envisioned Implementation Schedule (Annex 3). In
ISRP-I, the supervisory consultants and ACOP/WAPDA were heavily involved in
this type of monitoring. Similarly in ISRP-II this involvement of supervisory
consultants and WAPDA is also envisaged in Baluchistan and NWFP and to a
lesser degree in Sind on a transitional basis. However in Punjab, the PID
expect to totally man the internal monitoring and analysis process. The
monitoring personnel in the PPCs offices would monitor entire systems/
subsystems and reaches with hydraulic problems to obtain water conveyance and
sedimentation data for analyses.
5.12     External Monitoring and Evaluation would concentrate on assessing the
impact of the project's major components in achieving timely and more equitable
distribution of available water supplies and increased effectiveness of surface
drainage rehabilitation, as well as farmers response to project improvements.
In ISRP-I, WAPDA's ACOP, along with WAPDA's Planning and Investigation
Division, undertook the evaluation program; however, the results were not
altogether satisfactory (para 2.24), which was not necessarily the fault of
these evaluating organizations. There is now developing within the Provincial
Departments of Planning and Development (P&D) an interest and capability for
undertaking economic impact evaluations on a broad range of projects financed
through the Provincial Annual Development Programs (ADP), which are managed by
the P&Ds. Development of this Provincial capability will be encouraged in
ISRP-II.
5.13     In ISRP-II, the Provincial P&Ds may not necessarily undertake the
economic impact evaluation, base-line surveys and follow-up farmer interviews;
however, the P&Ds would be responsible for seeing to it that the necessary
arrangements are made for this work. In addition, it would be necessary for
the P&D, or its assigned entity, to arrange for the collection of the required
hydraulic and agronomic data. Evaluations based on a comprehensive analysis
of representative sample rehabilitated systems/subsystems would suffice, e.g.
it is proposed that three such units would be evaluated in Punjab, two in Sind



- 27 -
and one each in NWFP and Baluchistan. Each P&D would prepare a Program of
Work for the evaluation of its respective Provincial ISRP-II program and a
draft contract for review of FCC and subsequent transmittal to the cofinancing
aid donor agencies for their review by September 30, 1988. Base-line surveys
are to be completed by March 31, 1989. Each P&D and/or their designated
evaluation agency will prepare biennual progress reports and a final Project
Evaluation Report to the submitted to FCC and cofinancing aid agencies within
two and six months respectively of the close of their reporting periods. The
biennual progress reports will include a preliminary economic analysis of
project work accomplished to that date.
5.14     Project funds would be provided through the FCC for financing this
activity. The FCC would have overall coordination responsibility to ensure
the adequacy of the evaluation program in each Province, as well as providing
for an acceptable degree of consistency in approach among the Provinces. FCC
would enter into an appropriate contractual arrangement with each of the
Provincial evaluating organizations. Assurances have been obtained from GOP
and GOProvinces that contractual arrangements between FCC and Provincial
evaluation organizations would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
and that contracts would be signed by September 30, 1988.
Implementation Schedule
5.15     Project implementation is scheduled for five years, FYm9-93 (see
Implementation Schedule, Annex 3). Construction of rehabilitated civil works
would be distributed over the five-year project period with a slight build-up
in the work load after the first year. Funding for O&M of canals, and saline
subsurface drainage would be maintained at the FY86 levels in real terms (para
5.08). Procurement of equipment would be accomplished mainly during the first
two years of the project. Generally, spares would be procured during the
first three-years on approximately equal annual lots to assure the timely
acquisition of required spares. Experts to be recruited by USAID/GOP would be
appointed within the first three months following project effectiveness, and
appointment of supervisory consultants would be a condition of effectiveness
(para 5.06).
VL PRODUCTION. MARKETING AND PRICES. FARM INCOME AND COST RECOVERY
Production
6.01     The irrigation and drainage system to be rehabilitated under the
project would serve a cultivated area of about 4.1 M ha. A portion of the
surface drainage system in the project area, covering a catchment area of
about 0.8 M ha, would be improved to facilitate the disposal of storm water
from the irrigated fields. By improving the reliability and equity of
irrigation water supplies, and reducing the risk of crop failure from rain
flooding, the project would increase agricultural production and farmers'
income through expansion of cropped area, improved cropping patterns, increased
yields, and reduction in crop losses. The provision of technical assistance
for the strengthening of the PIDs would help ensure the safe, efficient and
effective O&M of project facilities.



- 28 -
6.02     It is expected that without the project the condition of the irri-
gation and drainage system in the project area would continue to deteriorate
and affect crop production. With the project it is estimated that the cropping
intensity would increase by about 7% in Punjab, 8S in Sind and NWFP, and 9Z in
Baluchistan, resulting in a total increment in cropped area of some 301,000
ha. Major crop yields would increase between 3 and 10X at full development
(fifth year following project completion). Based on the estimated increases
in cropped area and yields and reduction in crop losses from floods, the annual
incremental production of foodgrains at full development would amount to some
550,000 t, of cotton lint to 48,000 t, of sugarcane to 900,000 t, of fodder to
719,000 t, and of fruits to 145,000 t.
6.03     The incremental produrtion of major crops by Province is shown in
Table 6.1. Details on crop yields and cropping intensities, and illustrative
farm budgets are given in Anpex 5, Tables 1-3.
Table 6.1:  ANNUAL INCREMENTAL CROP PRODUCTION ('000 TONS)
Pun]ab       Sind       NWFP   Baluchistan   Total
Sugarcane                    663.0      132.0       109.0         -        904.0
Fodder                       547.0      140.0        24.0        8.0       719.0
Wheat                        327.0       69.0        17.0        3.0       416.0
Fruits                        78.0       38.0        15.0       14.0       145.0
Rice                          90.0       18.0         2.0        0.2       110.2
Cotton                        30.0       18.0          -          -         48.0
Marketing and Prices
6.04     Both the Government and private sector are engaged in the procurement
and marketing of farm produce. Government procurement is restricted
essentially to certain food and export items, viz wheat, rice, cotton and
sugarcane. Procurement prices of these commodities are fixed by the
Government with reference to changes in input costs from year to year with a
view to create adequate incentives for farmers to undertake production.
6.05     In general, farmers sell directly to individual buyers, government or
seui-government procurement agencies and agro-processing plants or at village
markets where transactions are carried out by individual brokers, traders and
commission agents. Higher up the marketing chain is a wide network of town
markets (mandis) through which agricultural commodities from the village
markets are channeled by brokers, wholesale and retail dealers to the larger
urban centers for sale to consumers and for export. Present marketing and
processing facilities are adequate to handle the project's incremental inputs
and outputs.  To further improve tL1use fauiiiLiv*, Lhe GovtLImUatmL iti aui
ongoing program to expand storage capacity, especially for foodgrains.
Construction of new roads and improvement of existing roads to provide better
access to markets have been carried out under the FFYP and provisions to
continue these activities are included in the current SFYP (FY84-88).
6.06     Currently, about 601 of Pakistan's wheat production is consumed by
the growers and their families. The remainder is marketed in the public and
private sectors. Public sector procurement is undertaken by the Provincial



- 29 -
Food Directorates and the Pakistan Agricultural Supply and Services
Corporation (PASSC) which buy from producers and private traders at fixed or
support prices established by the Agricultural Price Commission. Although
prices for transactions outside the fixed price system fluctuate seasonally
and regionally, t!he fluctuations have been narrow because of the stabilizing
influence of the Government's procurement and support price policies.
6.07     Producers sell most of their paddy to rice mills which are primarily
privately operated. In addition to its procurement of rice, including the
right to purchase all Basmati rice, the Government has the monopoly e'
exporting rice -- through the Rice Export Corporation. Cotton and augarcane
are sold, either directly or through an intermediary, to ginneries and sugar
mills. Their prices are also regulated by the Government. Ginned cotton is
consumed domestically as well as exported by the state-owned Cotton Export
Corporation. In areas where there is no sugar mill, sugarcane is usually
processed into gur for local consumption. Because incremental project
production would account for a small share of total production and in view of
the anticipated increases in demand, it is expected that the annual incremental
output of foodgrains, sugarcane and cotton would be absorbed by the domestic
market and exports. Fodder would be essentially used on the farm.
6.08     To encourage input use and compensate for procurement prices which
are lower than international prices, past Government policy was to provide
heavy subsidies on fertilizer, pesticides, irrigation water and other
agricultural inputs. However, starting in 1980 the Government aimed at
reducing input subsidies, providing incentives to producers through periodic
output price adjustments, and transferring responsibility for appropriate
marketing operations from the public to the private sector. Measures taken in
recent years include: (a) increases in retail prices of fertilizers and
operating margins of fertilizer dealers and other sellers; (b) privatization
of import and distribution of pesticides; (c) increase of private sector
participation in distribution and sale of fertilizers; (d) elimination of
subsidies for pesticides and nitrogeneous fertilizers; and (e) increases in
crop support and procurement prices.
6.09     Producers would receive fixed prices for products procured by the
Government or its procurement agencies and market prices for sales to other
buyers, except for certain commodities (mainly wheat, paddy/rice, sugarcane,
and cotton) subject to Government pricing policies. The average farmgate
prices used ivi the financial analysis are shown in Annex 5, Table 4.
Farm Income
6.10     The typical farm size in the project area would be about five hectares
in Punjab and Sind, one hectare in NWFP and three hectares in Baluchipan.
Budgets prepared for these farms show annual net incomes of Rs 15,290 (Punjab),
Rs 18,140 (Sind), Rs 4,570 (NWFP), and Rs 25,050 (Baluchistan) in the "with
project" situation, or Rs 1,330, Rs 1,520, Rs 1,120 and Rs 5,820 more than in
the "without project" situation. Details are in Annex 5, Tables 2 and 3a-3d.



- 30 -
Irrisation O&M Subsidy Removal Issue (Cost Recovery)
6.11     Background.  GOP and GOProvinces in several Bank Group assisted
operations (e.g., ISRP-I, Cr. 1239-PAK, and Structural Adjustment Loan,
Ln. 2166/Cr. 1255-PAK) have agreed to recover through water charges, or other
appropriate financial arrangements, the full O&M costs of the irrigation
systems. The dates for reaching full recovery of O&M range from June 30, 1988
for Sind to June 30, 1992 for Baluchistan. Data supplied by GOP in March 1987
indicate that such recoveries in FY87 covered only 201 (NWFP) to 601 (Punjab)
of the O&M allocations to PIDs. The Bank accepts GOP's position that the
Provinces will be unable to fulfill their past O&M subsidy removal commitments
-- resolution of which is essential to USAID and IDA financing of ISRP-II.
6.12     There are several subissues that have contributed to this problem
which must be addressed if a satisfactory resolution is to be found. These
include: rapidly increasing O&M allocations, which poses an extremely
difficult target to meet; poorly administered water charge assessment and
collection programs; difficulty in reaching agreement on the terminology
"'other appropriate financial arrangements;" and definition of "irrigation
systems."
6.13     It has long been recognized that inadequate funding for O&M was a
major reason for the deterioration of the irrigation systems (para 5.07).
Hence, a major covenant in ISRP-I required the meeting of agreed estimated
targets for O&M allocations. GOP and the Provinces responded and allocations
during the last five fiscal years have exceeded the agreed targets - with
increases of over 151 annually. A major reason for the rapidly escalating O&M
allocations relates to the cost of public TW operation (about US$60.0 M during
FY87), which is generally associated with the increased cost of energy. Even
though recoveries from water charges have increased by about 5% annually during
the same period, water charge revenues as a percentage of O&M allocations have
gone down from 531 in FY83 to about 381 in FY87. Thus, by providing urgently
needed funding for required O&M, GOP and GOProvinces have found fulfillment of
their subsidy removal commitments out of reacLa.
6.14     Water charges are collected by the Provincial Revenue Departments in
Pakistan, whereas the assessment responsibility varies, e.g., Punjab PID and
Sind Revenue Department are s0 assigned. Even though water rates are
comparable in Punjab and Sind Provinces, the funds collected in Sind appear to
be about 20 to 251 less per area irrigated as in Punjab. This has led GOP and
GOProvincial officials to estimate that an impro-ed water recovery assessment
and collection program could increase recoveries by 20 to 25% in some of the
Provinces.
6.15     Inclusion of the words "other appropriate financial arrangements" in
the cost recovery covenants has made the covenants difficult to monitor. GOP
and GOProvinces have interpreted this to include several agricultural cesses
and fees. Therefore, they have been of the view that they are in compliance
with the covenants. However, the Bank has concluded that these cesses and
fees are not acceptable because generelly they were earmarked for specific
govermental services provided to farmers.
6.16     A precise definition of the words "irrigation systems" is required
because a broad interpretation could include all water subsector facilities
administered by the PIDs, e.g., surface and groundwater irrigation, surface



- 31 -
and subsurface drainage and flood control. GOP and GOProvinces have preferred
to limit the definition to cover only surface irrigation facilities. For the
purpose of the O&M subsidy removal covenants, an appropriate definition is one
covering all irrigation (surface and groundwater) and subsurface saline
drainage facilities - the need for which is directly related to surface water
deliveries. V
6.17     ADproach to Resolve the Issue.  Following extensive discussions
between GOP, GOProvinces and the Bank, an approach to resolve this issue has
been developed. This approach, as agreed by GOP and GOProvinces calls for
reduction of O&M costs through a program of privatizing TWs in FGW areas and
increasing recoveries through improved water charge assessments and
collections. Privatising FGW TWs should reduce Provincial O&M outlays by
about US$50.0 H annually, and tightening the cost recovery process could
increase revenues from 20 to 25 in some Provinces while at the same time
promoting an important water subsector objective of privatization and related
efficiency in groundwater development (para 2.12). More specifically, this
approach envisages the following:
(a)  the definition of "irrigation systems" for the purpose of cost
recovery would be limited to surface irrigation and subsurface saline
drainage, with the understanding that groundwater irrigation would be
excluded based on a satisfactory program of SCARP transition
(privatisation of public TWs in FGW areas);
(b)  revenue sources, other than water charges, would not qualify as means
of cost recovery;
(c)  the program of water charge assessments and collections would be
improved through a study and implementation program commissioned by
GOP and GOProvinces with monitorable targets of 40b, 75% and full
recovery of potential increases determined by the study to be
achieved during FY90, 91 and 92 respectively and all institutional
improvements to be ihi place by June 30, 1990;
(d) a commitment was made by GOProvinces, consistent with current GOP
policy, that no future public funds would be invested in new or
replacement TWs for public operation in FGW areas and a satisfactory
program of SCARP transition would be implemented. It is understood
that phasing out of public tubewells (TWs) in the fresh groundwater
areas could involve a number of various approaches including:
(i)   formalized SCARP Transition projects;
(ii)   turning over O&M of existing and/or rehabilitated TWs to
individual and/or group of farmers as deemed appropriate by the
Provinces;
(iii)   encouragement by appropriate incentives for individual and/or
group of farmers to install private TWs.
In regards to the Second Punjab SCARP Transition and Sind Pilot SCARP
Transition project (para 6.18(b), the TOR for project preparation
would provide for:
1/ In most countries, O&M of major flood control and surface drainage



- 32 -
(i)   nationwide inventory of all such TWa indicating, among other
things, physical features and related conditions, agroeconomic
considerations and cultural/institutional matters;
(il) alternative scenarios, including schedules, for privatization by
Province and for the Nation; and
(iii) formulate an appropriate monitoring and evaluation program for
the purpose of determining effects of waterlogging and salinity,
efficiency and equity of water service, progress of program, as
well as the economic and engineering feasibility;
(e) any shortfalls in recovery of O&M allocations, which remain after the
improved assessment and collection program (c above) have become
fully operational (June 30, 1992), are to be made up in Punjab and
Sind by the Provincial Governments appropriately adjusting water
rates and/or drainage cesses with the understanding that if the
shortfalls are:
(i)   less than 25X, required adjustments would be made by July 1, 1993;
(ii) more than 25S, but lens than 40X, required adjustment would be
made by July 1, 1995; and
(iii) 40% or more, required adjustments would be made by July 1, 1997.
It is also understood that the adjustment in rate charges to fill any
shortfalls would be no less than 25S by July 1, 1993, an additional
151 by July 1, 1995 and any remaining amount as required by July 1,
1997, and that for subsurface saline drainage projects a development
period, following completion of such projects, would be observed.
This development period would provide for a three-year grace period
prior to collecting recoveries from beneficiaries with a phased
collection of 33% of the O&M during the fourth year, 672 the fifth
year and full recovery during the sixth year and thereafter.
Khairpur II (Cr. 648-PAK), SCARP VI (Cr. 754-PAK), SCARP Mardan
(CR. 877-PAK) and Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK) would come under the
latter provision, whereas LBOD (Cr. 1532-PAK) would be exempted in
lieu of a somewhat comparable provision already agreed to for this
project.
(f) water rates for Punjab and Sind would be considered as proxy for the
surface irrigation systems for NWFP and Baluchistan respectively,
however, full recovery of O&M for subsurface saline drainage projects'
would be required.
6.18     Assurances, as follows, have been obtained from GOP and GOProvinces
on removal of the O&M subsidy and it is anticipated that these same assurances
will be obtained during relevant negotiations for the proposed Agriculture
Sector Adjustment Loan (FY88):
(a) A nationwide study for improving procedure for assessment and
collection of water charges and drainage cesses would be completed by
March 31, 1989. It would be reviewed with IDA and an implementation
plan, satisfactory to IDA would be adopted by May 31, 1989;



- 33 -
(b) Punjab and Sind Provinces would achieve full recovery of O&M costs of
their surface irrigation and subsurface saline drainage systems with
a phased time schedule satisfactory to IDA; however, if the shortfall
is less than 257 it will be met by July 1, 1993, if 25% but less than
402 by July 1, 1995, and if 407 or more by July 1, 1997.
(i)   further adjustments in water rates and/or drainage ceases will be
made thereafter to maintain such full recovery;
(ii)   for subsurface saline drainage systems, a three-year grace period
during the development period followed by a three-year phased
program for collecting recoveries, satisfactory to IDA, will be
provided.
(c) Water rate adjustments provisions in (b) above for Punjab and Sind
would serve as proxy for the surface irrigations systems in NWFP and
Baluchistan respectively; however, in no case would water rates in
NWFP and Baluchistan be lowered below those being assessed during
FY88 and full recovery of O&M for subsurface saline drainage systems
would be required.
(d) Provisions in (b) and (c) above would supersede relevant
understandings for the Khairpur Tile Drainage (Cr. 648-PAK), SCARP IV
(Cr. 754-PAR), SCARP Mardan (Cr.877-PAK) and CQmmand Water Management
(Cr. 1487-PAK) projects; however, LBOD (Cr. 1532-PAK) would be
exempted.
(e) All public TWa in FGW areas (except for the South Rohri and Ghotki
areas in Sind assisted by other external aid donors) would be phased
out according to a program satisfactory to IDA with the provisions
that:
(i)   no future investment would be made in new or replacement TWs in
FGW for public operation;
(ii)   for a Second SCARP Transition Project in Punjab and a Pilot SCARP
Transition Project in Sind,
- proposals for consulting services would be a condition for
credit effectiveness,
- feasibility studies would be finalized by June 30, 1989; and
- the project would be completed by June 30, 1994;
(iii)   For other SCARP Transition projects in Punjab and Sind,
feasibility studies would be finalized by March 31, 1993, and the
projects would be initiated by July 1, 1994 and completed by June
30, 1998.



- 34 -
VIL BENEFITm  AND JUSTIFICATION
Production and Employment
7.01     The project would raise agricultural production and farm incomes
through rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems/subsystems serving an
area of about 4.1 M ha. Over one million farm families, or about 6.2 million
people, would directly benefit. Their present annual per capita incomes of
between US$130 and US$210 equivalent compare with a per capita GNP of US$380
(World Bank Atlas 1986). Total farm labor requirements would reach about 272
M man-days per year at full development -- an increase of 102 over the present
situation - providing additional employment opportunities in the project area.
Economic Analysis
7.02     The economic rates of return (ERR) for the project as a whole and the
four Provincial components are shown in Table 7.1. At a disount rate of 10%,
the assumed opportunity cost of capital in Pakistan, the project's economic
net present value would bi Rs 6.2 billion (US$355 million). Economic benefits
and costa presented in Annex 5, Table 5, have been valued in constant 1987
terms. The main assumptions made in the analysis are as follows:
(a) Prolect Life: Twenty yearss with full development reached in project
year 10 (FY98), five years after the completion of works.
(b) Prices: Farmgate prices for internationally traded goods are based
on the World Bank's commodity price forecasts, while those for
non-traded goods are based on domestic financial prices (Annex 5,
Table 4). For all main outputs export parity prices have been used,
because Pakistan is expected to become either an exporter of or
self-sufficient in those which are not currently exported. Import
parity prices have been used for fertilizers. The market wage for
labor as well as other domestic prices and price components have been
translated into border prices by applying a standard conversion
factor of 0.9.
(c) Proiect Benefits: Benefits consist of the estimated incremental
production described in Chapter VI.
(d) Prolect Costs: All investment costs and incremental crop production
costs have been taken into account. The cost of the Federal
Coordination Cell has been distributed proportionately over the four
Provincial programs.
Table 7.1:  ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Punjab                   32%
Sind                     32%
NWFP                     28%
Baluchistan              22%
Total Project            311



- 35 -
Sensitivity and Risks
7.03     The sensitivity of the project to changes in benefits and costs has
been tested using switching values as a measure.Xl'  The results show that at
a discount rate of 101 total costs could rise over 501 or total benefits fall
351 from their appraisal values without making the project economically
unacceptable. The acceptable variations in benefits or costs of the four
Provincial programs are similar. Details are in Table 7.2. Further tests
show that with (a) a three-year lag in benefits, (b) a 50S increase in costs,
and (c) a 201 decrease in benefits combined with a 20% increase in costs, the
ERR would still be 12-132.
Table 7.2: SWITCHING VALUES OF BENEFITS AND COSTS
Benefits      Costs
Punjab                       -311          461
Sind                         -442          801
NWFP                          -371         591
Baluchistan                  -431          741
Total Project                -351          541
7.04     The project would involve no unusual risks.  Implementation
techniques are well established, as this would be a follow-on to the
Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project. However, as experienced in other
projects in Pakistan, financial constraints may occur in the Provinces which
would necessitate adjustments in the proposed implementation targets. Since
the project is highly divisible, this situation could be easily accomodated
through a reduction in the number of systems/subsystems to be rehabilitated,
or an extension of the implementation period. Such changes should affect
costs and benefits in similar proportions with no unacceptable changes in the
overall ERR. There is the risk that GOP aud the Provinces may have difficulty
in meeting their O&M subsidy removal commitments within the stipulated period
because of political and other factors. However, GOP is committed to the
phasing out of subsidies which, among others, is an important means of
containing the budget deficit.
Environmental Impact
7 -)5    The project provides for the rehabilitation of "in-place"
infrastructure, much of which was built 30 to 40 years ago. Hence, this
project would not produce most of the negative environmental effects normally
associated with civil works construction, e.g. land procurement, loss of
wildlife habitat through inundation, and resettlement; but it would be
necessary to obtain some soil from borrow areas. Streamflows would be
unaffected because no additional diversions are planned. Rehabilitation of
surface drains would be limited to cleaning facilities that have become clogged
with sediment and weeds. No extension of drains into new areas is envisaged.
1/    Switching value is the value of the variable tested for which the
project's net present value is zero, or for which the project's rate of
return is equal to the discount rate (usually the opportunity cost of
capital).



- 36 -
There would be some reduction of marshy areas adjacent to canals; however,
these areas resulted from seepage from the canals and were not part of the
predevelopment landscape. A secondary and marginal impact could possibly result
from the increased fertilizer and pesticide use and/or runoff related to the
higher agricultural production envisaged in the areas benefiting from the
rehabilitation.
7.06     It is anticipated that canal rehabilitation will increase cropping
intensities, which will provide for additional food and habitat for wildlife,
especially in chaks located in the mid and tail reaches of canal systems/
subsystems. These chaks are expected to receive more irrigation water in
the post project period. In addition, cleaning of clogged drains will reduce
the area of stagnant water and related breeding areas for mosquitoes.
Improved surface drainage will reduce some of the damages resulting from rain
flooding and the personal miseries associated therewith. Some waterlogging
and related salinization of soils will be reduced because of improved surface
drainage. Thus, the overall environmental impact of the project is expected
to be positive.
VIU. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM DATION
8.01     Assurances have been obtained from GOP and/or GOProvinces that:
(a) criteria for rehabilitation of schemes and specifications for civil
works construction would be satisfactory to IDA (para 3.07);
(b) procedures for procurement of civil works would be satisfactory to
IDA (para 4.07);
(c) suitably qualified supervisory consultants, as well as consultants
for project preparation, would be employed on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with the principles and
procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency," published by the Bank in August 1981 (para 4.09);
(d) project accounts would be audited annually and separately for the
PIDs and FCC by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Copies of
the audit reports would be sent to IDA not later than nine months
after the end of each fiscal year. The audit reports would include
an opinion as to whether IDA funds withdrawn on the basis of SOEs
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided (para
4.10);
(e) copies of the Annual Work Plan, including Annual O&M Program of Work,
would be submitted to IDA by September 30 of the fiscal year covered
by the report (para. 5.03);



- 37 -
(f)  the current (FY88) level of Provincial O&M funding to the PIDs for
the surface irrigation and subsurface saline drainage systems would
be maintained in real terms including appropriate O&M funding for new
projects becoming operational (para 5.08);
(g)  contractual agreement would be reached by September 30, 1988 with
project evaluation organizations in all four Provinces on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 5.14);
(h)  for the removal of O&M subsidies (para 6.18):
(i) A nationwide study for improving procedures for assessment and
collection of water charges and drainage cesses would be
completed by March 31, 1989. This study would be reviewed with
IDA and an implementation plan, satisfactory to IDA, be adopted
by May 31, 1989.
(ii) Punjab and Sind Provinces would achieve full recovery of O&M
costs of their surface irrigation and subsurface saline drainage
systems with a phased time schedule satisfactory to IDA; however,
if after the improvement of water charges/drainage cesses
assessment and collection procedures there is a shortfall, then
full recovery would be achieved as follows: if the shortfall is
less than 251 it will be met by July 1, 1993, if 25X but less
than 402 by July 1, 1995, and if 401 or more by July 1, 1997.
-   further adjustments in water rates and/or drainage cesses will
be made thereafter ts maintain such full recovery;
-   for subsurface saline drainage systems, a development period
of three years grace period followed by a three year phased
program for collecting recoveries, satisfactory to IDA, will
be provided.
(iii) Water rate adjustments provisions in (ii) above for Punjab and
Sind would serve as proxy for the surface irrigations systems in
NWFP and Baluchistan respectively; however, in no case would
water rates in NWFP and Baluchistan be lowered below those being
assessed during FY88 and full recovery of O&M for subsurface
saline drainage systems would be required.
(iv) Provisions in (ii) and (iii) above would supersede previous
relevant understandings reached on the Khairpur Tile Drainage
(Cr. 648-PAK), SCARP IV (Cr. 754-PAK), SCARP Mardan (Cr.877-PAK)
and Command Water Management (Cr. 1487-PAK) projects; however,
LBOD (Cr. 1532-PAK) would be exempted from these provisions and
would continue to be governed by the O&M cost recovery
arrangements agreed for and under that project.



- 38 -
(v) All public TW8 in FGW areas (except for the South Rohri and
Ghotki areas in Sind assisted by other external aid donors) would
be phased out according to a program satisfactory to IDA with the
provisions that:
-    there would be no future investment in new or replacement TWs
in FGW for public operation;
-    for a Second SCARP Transition project in Punjab and a Pilot
SCARP Transition Project in Sind, the feasibility studies
would be finalized by June 30, 1989, and the project would be
completed by June 30, 1994.
-    for other SCAR? Transition projects in Punjab and Sind,
feasibility stlidies would be finalized by March 31, 1993, and
the projects wOuld be initiated by July 1, 1994 and completed
by June 30, 1998.
8.02     Conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) approval of the PC-1
by ECNUC; (b) meeting all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the USAID
and Dutch funding (c) appointment of supervisory consultants; and (d) proposals
have been invited for consulting services for the Second SCARP Transition
project in Punjab and the Pilot SCARP Transition Project in Sind (para 4.02,
5.06 and 6.18).
8.03     With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 58.2 M (US$79.5 M) on standard terms, with
35 year maturity. The borrower would be the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



-39-                                       'ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYStENS REHA8ILITATION PROJECT
Suseav Accounts bv Year
Base Costs
(Rs '000)                         Foreign Exchnte
FY                    89         90       91       92       93       Tots'      Z    Aaount
2v3Svzx2 unuu:z:3 88SX32v:u n 3a   : 233333u2sl a 333333383  332 3S33S333333
PROJECT
A. CIVIL WORKS            360,00S.6 385463.1 41S.296.0 3974320*0 320.649,0 1.8636733.7  7.1  1339053,3
D. EGUIPNENT              2479941,2 195,524. 115M3771         -        -  558,342.8 95.0  531,114.3
C. TECH. ASSIST.           77,174.8 38e727.6 380404.8 30hlO5.2 31.970*0  216.2M24 70.1  151,648.8
D. TRAININB                35.826.9 35.926#.  35,926.9 35g826.9 35.826,9  179tl34.7 70*2  125,697.6
E. SUPU,  AIDH            109.680.4 913413.5  68,208.9 67,660.1  67t834,8  404.M,7  10.1   40771.3
-=..- ..-- .- .- - - ----- ------ ----- ----- - -.
Total INVESTNENT COSTS       8304629.1 746.955.6 673,113.7 530.912.2 464v190,7 3.245.791.4  30.3  932,310.2
Total BASELINE COSTS          830.629,1 746,955.6 673.113,7 530.9122 464.190,7 39245791.4  30.3  902310,2
Phvsical Continrencies      83.062.9 749695,6  67,311*4 53,091.2 46.41891  324t5?.1  30.3   93.231.0
price Continncins           69,080.6 11952.4 1609562.5 164,632.5 1629156.6  675.384,5 26.0  175290,2
---     ---     -----     ----   -    -_   .   ..  ._.._.._  _ 
Total PROJECT COSTS           982.772,6 90,603.5 900,987.6 74863640 672.755.4 4.245.755.0 29.6 1.25539.4
~~122=a,s *as=  =8m   =                        Is &**ms:a=
Taxns                       64.5291  64,9M554  69954,5 699M,9  62.034.9  331,266.9  0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchane            418.195.7 345,292.4 26339A4 11499MO 113.954,9 1.255039.4  0.0           0.0
PUNJAB PROVINCE
A. CIVIL WORKS           207,458.2 2014069 221.923.2 224,054.0 1637M2.0 1.044.000.4   7.1  7342i.7
3. EQUIPMENT             12MI358.0 10.610.6  63.460.2         -        -  m23401  95.  263 .32,9
C. SUPU. I ADM.           24,164*0 21.472*2 21.472,2 21.472.2 21.4722   110M052.7  10.1  11,084.5
*qwmm        -  -nwem- 00                  -- a-       -ft
Total INIESTMENT COSTS      3096443 320.91.? 306.75.6 245.526.2 2109244.1 14524501.9  25.4 360344,1
Total ASELINE COSTS          260.964.3 323891.7 306,3756* 245,52*.2 210,244.1 19452.501*9  25.4 360344.1
Phnical Contingenese       36*06.4 32039.2 30,687.6 24.52.*  21#024.4  145.250.2  25.4  36034.4
Price Contingncies         29,023.5 5293M.0  7343.4  759V7.4  72MM0?  304416.1  19.9  60.501.1
......    __W     .0 .....        _                 _
Totl PROJECT COSTS           426,9.2 414,166.9 410.906*5 3460U162 30410743 1.t0218.1  244  465,759.6
Tas                        279300.4  289131.6  32437.5  34601.6 3hU4187   153,089.7   0.0          0.0
Foreian Exchange          16663.5 146P02.4 104,016.7 25,476.5 22073.5  430759.6   0.0              0.0
NsIelec 3 197 13:19



ANNEX 1
Table 1
_40 -                                   Page 2
PAKIStAN
SECOND tRRIGATION SYSTENS READILITATISI PROJECT
Suaary Accounts bh  Year
(Rs '000,                           Foreign Ex&hU*ne
1Y                            89        90        91         92       93      Total       I     koun
UM 3,QUE 
A. CIVIL gomKs               77910.2 110,607.2 127t598.3 112,372.4  676901.4 516,379.5    7.1   36,416.7
t. EBUIPNENT                 866230.9  66,45.9  38,489.4           -         - 191,066.3   95.0  181,586.0
C. SW9, a ADN.                19177.5   39246.1   3t246.1   3t248.1   3,246.1  14,170.1   10.1   1,427.2
Total  PNJESTIEMT COSTS        165,31846 180,201.3 16935.9 115,620.6  919139.5 7219615.9  30.4  219,429.9
Total DASELINE COSTS            165318.6 1609201.3 169,335.9 115,620.6  91439.5 721,615.9   30.4  219,429.9
P"ical Cantingecius           169531.9  186020.1  169933.6  11,562.1   9,114.0  72,161.6   30.4   21,943.0
Price Continsecins            13,954.6  28,687.6  40#442.1  35,757.4  31,604.6 1509446.4   23.1   34M795.2
Total PROJECT COSTS             195,805*0 2269909.0 2260711.6 162,940.0 131,8S8.1 944,223.8   c9.2  276,168.0
-33-33  3313333  =28=   33333X333   83 32 383   383  338323-3
Taxes                          99321.8  149344.9  17,545.8  16294.0  13,195.8  70,692.3    0.0          0.0
Foreign Exhnie               104,230.0  09535.1  619104.4  11,703.2   96595.3 276,168.0    0.0          0.0
N.W.F. PROVINCE
A$ CIVIL VOWKS              30,458.3 309671.3 34696#0 31,470.1 27,660,3 155M056.0       7.1  101935.0
s. EOUIPIENT                20M202.4 12#623*1  7t752.6        -         -  40578.1    95.0 3M,U4.7
C. SUP.    ANN.              2,183*6  3,426.0 3t426.0  30426*0  3,426.0  15,887*7    10.1   19600.2
Total INVESTIENT COSTS         52t844.3 46t720.4 45i774.6 34,896.1 31,286.3 211,521.8    24.2  51.0gg,9
Totel DASELINE COSTS            52,844.3 469720.4 45,774.6 3468961 31,286.3 211,521.8    24.2  51tog9
Piwuical Continuncies         5P284.4  4672.0  4,577.5  39489.6 3i128.6  21r152.2    24.2   5911o.o
Price Contin-nci s            4,380.2  7,446.6 10,956l 10793.0 106851.2  44t427.0    16.6  8255.2
Total PROJECT COSTS             62,509.0 5aw839.0 61,30861 49,178.7 45,266.2 277101.0    23.3  64*465.1
Taxes                         3,647.5  4,296*0 509865  4,917*9 4,526.6  22.686.4         0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchnie              259672.5 18t244*8 139514.4  39637.0 3,396.5  64,465.1       0.0       0.0
Novumber 3u 1967 13:25



AIE  1
-41-                                  Table 1
Page 3
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary Accounts by Year
-t t *00                              Iorsn Exchanae
EXYa                              21i       a2          i      latl       5    hMmt
IUUIISTAN  PR Nt
A.- CIVIL bWIKS                     27,96.3  27.421.2  31,178.5  29,423.4  24,125.3  140,134.7  7.1   9,882.7
9. EQUIPMENt                         12,157.9  10,944.9  5,654.8         -         -  28,757.6  95.0  27,330.7
C. SU W. & ADM.                      2,282.3   2,508.7  2,508.7  2,508.7   2,508.?  12,317.1  10.1   1,240.6
t_NTTS42  40,874.8  -9,341.0  -1-9-2.2  -6,634.0  -81,209.5  -1.2  -8,454.1
Total INASTMENT COSTS                42,426.5  40,874.8  39,342.0  31,932.2  26,634.0  181,209.5  21.2  38,454.1
Total aASELINE COSt                   42,426.S 40,87.4.8  39,342.0  t192226,634.0  181,202.1 21.2  30,454.1
Physical Contingencies               4,242.6  4,087.5   3,934.2   3,193.2  2,663.4  18,120.9  21.2  3,845.4
Price Contingencies                  3,472.1  6,515.1   9,426.0  9,876.0  9,237.3  38,526.5  16.9  6,502.5
Total PRWJECT COStS                   50,141.3  51,477.4  52,702.3  45,001.4  38,S34.?  237,857.0  20.5  48,802.0
Taxes                                3,567.7  3,770.9  4,517.2   4,500.1   3,853.5  20,209.5   0.0          0.0
Foresin Exchange                    16,376.6  15,834.1  10,416.8  3,301.2   2,873.3  48,802.0  0.0          0.0
FEDERAL dOORDINATIuN t:ELL
A. CIVIL WORKS                       16,200.6  14,954.4        -         -         -  31,155.1   7.1   2.197.2
B. TECH. ASSIST.                    77,174.8  38,727.6  38,404.8  30,105.2  31,870.0  216,282.4  70.1 151,668.8
C. TRAINING                         35,826.9  35,826.9  35,826.9  35,826.9  35,826.9  179.134.7  70.2 125,697.6
0.  SUPV. & ADM.                    79,873.0  60,758.5  37,553.8  37,005.1  37,179.8  252,370.2  10.1  25.418.7
Ta_STCS07     150,267.4 111,785.5 102,937.2 104,876.7  678,942.4  42.9 304,982.3
Total BASESTIN   COSTS              209,075.3 150,267.4 111,785.5 102,937.2 104,876.7 678,942.4  42.9 304,982.3
Total BASEL211E COStS                209,075.3 1S0,267.4 111,785. 102,937.2 104,876.7 678,942.4  42.9 304,982.3
Physical Contingencies              20,907.5  15,026.7  11,178.6  10,293.7  10,487.7  67,894.2  42.9  29,194.5
Price Contingencies                '17,421.1  23,948.5  26,452.1  32,245.1  37,501.4  137,568.5  45.2  62,180.7
- - - -- - -- -- -- - - - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - --  -- -- -- - -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -
Total PROJECT COSTS                  247,403.9 189,242.6 149,416.2 145,476.0 152,865.8  884,405.1  44.8 396,357.5
Taxes                               20,287.1  14,004.0  9,562.6  8,874.0  9,477.7  62,205.4  0.0            0.0
Foreign Exchange                   101,683.1  70,587.5  71,420.9  67,355.4  71,847.0  382,893.9  0.0        0.0



-42-                            £NUILX
Page 1
N!IMO IRRIGATION SYSTDIS RENAB!LITATION PNO.1T
CIVIL WoKS
PUNJAR PIOVI!E
CCA/CA  1/   Length                       Raa C.st  kEs. Ml
ha           Km    FY  ^2         toQ       1        PI        2^       ^a
Sargodha Zone            447,370         1611     29.2      32.4      37.3     34.0      29.2    162.1
Faisalahed Zone          720,240        2071      37.0      30.8      32.4     30.6      23.1    154.1
Bahawalpur Zone          839,270        2920      58.5      53.4      48.3     51.0      43.3    254.5
Multan Zone              7"9190          2634     42.4      38.2      44.5     46.6      40.2    211.8
Lahore Zone               1S.8 00       _m5      -.A       _.IL     .22,      J2        - ILl    1J2.L
Subtotal         2,964,770        9832    173.2    171.2    190.2    190.1    160.8    885.2
Sargodha Zone             153,440         379     16.0      13.6      11.8     11.8       5.9      59.1
Faisalahed Zone          214,570         200       4.6       6.1       7.0      6.7       6.1      30.5
Sahawalpur Zone             6,500         100      2.8       2.7       2.5      2.5       1.9      12.4
Multan Zone               182,190         144      0.5       4.2       3.8       3.8      3.1      15.4
Lahore Zone               7.S410          121     J.Z          -                                  _ _  -
Subtotal           637,240      10,777      32.6     26.6      25.1      24.8      17.0    126.1
Miscellaneous
(Renovation of PID)                                1.7       4.0      6.5       9.1      11.4     32.7
Imrovements to PID                                           -        -         -         -          -
TOTAL                                 207.5    201.8    221.8    224.0    188.9  1,044.0
Physical Contingencies                              20.8      20.2      22.2     22.4      18.9.   104.4
Price Contingencies                                .142    .2243                .JI    -AL U .8    191.9.8
Total Punjab Province                242.5    249.3    2U6.8    302.9    256.6  1,340.2
1/ CCA - Cultural cormanded area of canals
1/ CA - Catchment area of drains
1.5c/p-,



_43  -ANNEX I
Page 2
~E~OO I3!CTThU~Y5EkRKNAL!TATIhU P30.1KCT
CCA/CA  1/   Length                        NU   ca.t 1k. M)
ha Itm KM              A A         U l1                 3 2I             IAa
Rohri Canal Circle        275,930          803      70.3     28.1      28.1      14.1          -    140.6
Nara Canal Circle         284,850          666       6.5      32.6      32.6     32.6      26.1    130.4
Khairpur Canal Circle    72,490            119 l               2.3       3.5       3.4       2.3     11.5
Western Sind Circle        59,230          260         -       6.3       8.8       8.5       7.8     31.4
L.D.C. Circle              72,710          197         -      4.2        8.8       S.6      5.2      20.8
Ghotiki Feeder Circle    33,180            142         -       2.3       3.7       2.6      2.2      10.8
Desert Pat.F Circle        18,620           78         -       3.0       3.0       2.9      2.2      11.1
Raghar Circle              32,890          210         -       7.2      10.1      9.7       9.0      36.1
Inundation Circle          38,230          191         -      5.2        7.2      7.0       6.5      25.8
Canal Gate                       -         --.a              .3.L     . _.a       -LA      _ LA       .1J1
Subtotal           888,130         2613      76.8      98.9    110.6       94.2      69.1    449.6
Umm
Lower Sine Circle         136.270          251         -       5.0      6.9       6.7       6.2      24.8
Larkana Shikarpur                                      -       2.2       3.0      2.9       2.7      10.a
SCAP Khairpur                --                    ,                     I        ?.A       LA       Il.
Subtotal            136,270         21          -       9.3      12.9      12.4      11.5      46.1
Miscellaneous
(enovation of PID)                                   1.       .5.4 2.t .                    7 .      .t
TOTAL                                   77.9    110.7    127.7    112.4         87.8    516.5
Physical Contingencies                                 7.8      11.1      12.8      11.2       8.8     51.7
Price Contingencies                                    L1 .               ..        .L 6      L20   .      0..
Total Sind Province                    90.6    136.2    165.6    150.2    116.7    659.2
C1 CCA - Cultural commanded area of canals
1/ CA - Catchment area of drains
1 9sC.P-2



-44 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 2
Page 3
PAItSTAN
ECfOND IRRIGATION SYST MS EIAuILITATIXON PROJECT
11 W.F . PROINC!E
CCA/CA  1/   Length                       fal  Cost (Rs. Ml
h               VA L     h2         U.        11   2 2           2U      Inal
Central Circle             57,050         10S      8.1       9.6      11.6     11.1      10.1      50.5
Northern Circle           78,690          221      6.8       8.1       9.8      9.4       8.6      42.7
Malakand Circle             6,090          56      4.3       2.8       2.7        -         -       9.8
Southern Circle           74.7fif        221      _.LZ      _L        Li       _Li       -L2    ILl
Subtotal           216,590         660      27.4     27.0      30.6      27.0     23.6    135.6
Peshawar Orainage
system                  47,490          95       2.7       2.8      2.5       2.4       1.8      12.2
Miscellaneous
(Renovation of PDI)                               .j4         i       -JA 1-4  _2.       _U         7.1
TOTAL                                  30.5      30.6      34.5     29.4      27.9    154.9
Physical Contingencies                               3.1       3.1       3.5      3.0       2.8      15.5
Price Contingencies                                 _1,2      _ L.     _ L-Ui    _2A.1    ..LQ      ILl
Total N.W.F. Province                 35.5      37.5      44.5     41.5      36.7    195.7
1/ CCA - Cultural commanded area=of canals
1/ CA - Catchment area of drains
1 S9C/P-I



45                              TihL2
Page 4
PAKfelfN
SECOND fRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHARILITATION PROIJECT
CIIL WEOKS
BALUCHISTAN PROVINS£
CCA/CA  1/   Length                       Bass Cott lRs. M)
ha           Km fa.% FY           2Q        21       22        21      lo
GUAL ~       ~       b .           .K      U    i        At         1       A         A        na
Quetta Irr. Circle          3,890          42      6.5       3.3       3.9      2.9       3.0      19.6
Sibi Irr. Circle          95,030          122      7.6       9.0      11.0     10.5       9.5      47.6
Loralas  Irr. Circle       8,280           33      9.8       9.8      11.3     10.8       7.3      49.0
Kalat Irr. Circle           3,540          38      3.2       3.9       4.1      3.9       2.7      17.8
Makran Irr. Circle            400     2   --I       0       ...8         -                     -1.4
Subtotal           111,140         237      27.7     26.8      30.3      28.1     22.5    135.4
Miscellaneous
(Renovation of PID)                               -.L        ... 0.9                    .i1  z -..
TOTAL                                  27.9      27.4      31.2     29.4      24.2    140.1
Physical Contingencies                               2.8       2.7       3.1      3.0       2.4      14.0
Price Contingencies                                 _.        AiL       _.2       _.2      _4       ...1
Total Sind Province                   32.7      33.9      40.5     39.6      32.5    179.2
1/ CCA - Cultural comnanded area of canals
1/ CA - Catchment area of drains
195CP-4



PAKISTMX
SECOD ZRITOu SYSTDIS RENAHILXTATION PEU
EourPmT tn a M. CONSTRUCTION. HYDRAULIC AHD SEDIENT
nEAStlREIIT. COMPUTERS. SURVEYING. TRNSPRT) AMD SPARE PAPTS
Ease Cost it 0ooo0
Unit            P.minab               Sind               NWfP           Balu&hjjan         _  Total
L                                       cas            I   QKL Cask   1 L        Cask       Ka      Cas        EL        as       IL       Cs  11
Q 8 M Eaulmint
- Form Tractor, 50 HP with blade,
3-point hitch. Pl, 7' lifting              2S-AI          40    1,000.0      20      500.0       5       12S.0      5       125.0     70    1,750.0
took. 6'I bush hoe. 5 I ver
&M Trailer
-  2-weeled Tractor Trolley                    2.5           40       100.0     20        50.0      S        12.5      5        12.5      70      174.0
-  Iater Tank, 100 Gallons. self
filling with spray bar with                12.5           40      500.0      20       250.0      S        a2.s      s        62.5      70      875.0
tractor toe hitch
70 HP motor grader, with scarifier         43.8           16       700.0       -          -       -          -        -         -      16      7M0.0
1-Ton vibratory compactor                   5.0           40      200.0      20       100.0      5        25.5      S        25.5     70    1,2S0.0
- Mobile Flood Lights                         12.5           40       500.0     20       2S0.0      5        62.5       5       6?.S      70      875.0
-  Pick-up trucks 4x4, 3/4 Ton                15.0           40       600_0     20       3Do.o      S        7s.0       S       7s.0      70       oso.J o
Sub-Total                           3,600.0            1,450.0              363.0              363.0            S,776.0
Construction EP iunmnt for ISRP-1I
-  Vibratory Compactor 2-Ton capacity          7.0           20       140.0     55       400.0       -          -       -         -       75      540.0
-  Dragline 70' boom, 1.5 yd3 capacity       167.5            -          -       3       1CO         1      ] 1iZ5      - -                4    .6.7s
Sub-Total                             140.0              900.0              167.5                 -             1,207.5
Eauinment for Hvdraulic Measurements, etc,
-  Assorted equipment 2/                        Lump Sum       -   1,000.0       -       600.0        -     100.0       -      100.0       -    1,800.0
Eouiemfnt for Institutional Zmorovement
-  Assorted equipment 3'                        Lump Sum       -   2,000.0       -    1,250.0         -     300.0        -     200.0       -    3,750.0
1s5C/P-s



ANNEX I
Table 3
Page 2
PAKSTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REMABILXTATION PROJECT
EOUIPNENT (O & M. CONSTRUCTION. HYDRAULIC AMD SEDIMENT
HEASUREMENt. CMPUTERS. SURVEYINf. TRANSPORT) AND SPA*E PARTS
Base Cost it '0001
Unit             Puiab             Sind               YUFP           Baluchistan          Tetal
ZlIt                                    Cost          Na..    Cost       ILz    Cost       Na..    Cost       lEA     Cost      IL.     Caat 1J
-,TrMosort 
- Jeeps 4x4 (Suzuki)                        10.9           46      500.0    30       330.0      6       65.4       5       54.5     87      949.9
Spare Parts for EGui mtent Overhaul Proaram
- Assorted spare parts for various
equipment. required for overhaul 4/        Lump Sun       -  9.S60.0        -  6,270.0       -    1.304.1       -                     ILf.l - 18.16.6
Total Equipment and Spares                   16,800.0          10,800.0           2,300.0            1,600.0          31.500.0
- Contingencies                                                  3,300.0           2,000.0             400.0              300.0           6,000.0        A
TOTAL                                   20,100.0           12,800.0           2,700.0            1,900.0          37,500.0
" Woes not include customs duty, sales tax and inland transportation, etc.
2/ (current-meters, boats, booms, echo, sounder's, sediment. samplers Laboratory Analysts Equipment Visual
Accumulation Tubes, Analytical balances, etc.)
3' Computers and appurtenant equipment, survey instruments (levels. etc.), audio visual
equipment, office equipment and supplies.
4/   Budgetary costs which includes labor costs of overhauling estimated to be in the order of 12.S percent
19SC/P-6



AhEX I
tahle 4
- 48 -                                      Page 1
SECOND !RRIGATION SYSTEMS tEHABXLITATIQM PROJECT
SLJPERV!S!aM AND AD!NXSTRATION
(Rs. Mi1lion)
FY    2       2Q        21        22        21     Total
I. PUNJAB PRoVINCE
A. Provincial Coordinators Office
Staff                               1.1       1.1      1.1       1.1       1.1       5.5
Other                               AA      LQi Q.2                        LI.. lQa
Subtotal                       1.6       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3      6.8
S. Field Circle
Staff                               0.5      0.5       0.6       0.5       0.6       2.7
Other                               LA       L.2L      LI        Li.       Li        L.
Subtotal                       0.9       0.7       0.7       0.6       0.8      3.7
C.  Field Division
Staff                              11.1     11.0      11.1      11.0      11.1      55.3
Other                              -.A       .AI      -.L        -.L       3.       ILl
Subtotal                      16.2      14.1      14.2      14.1      14.2     72.8
D. Desion Office
Staff                               1.3       1.2      1.3       1.3       1.3       6.4
Other                               L 2        i    LAAi    L              Li Z
Subtotal                       2.0       1.9       1.9       2.0       2.0      9.8
E.   outer CLgll
Staff                               0.5      0.5       0.6       0.5       0.5       2.7
Other                               Li       0.3       LI2                 Li QI,.1
Subtotal                         0.7       0.8       0.8       0.7       0.8       3.8
F. Honitorina & Data Collection
Staff                               0.4      0.5       0.4       0.4       0.5       2.2
Laboratory                          0.8      0.8       0.8       0.9       0.8       4.1
Computer Section                    0.2      0.2       0.1       0.2       0.2       0.9
General Support Staff               0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2       0.1       o.)
Other                               LI       LA        LI L,              Li ,1.1
Subtotal                       2.6       2.7       2.5       2.7      2.7      13.2
TOTAL (PunJab Province)   24.0        21.5      21.4     21.4      21.8    110.1
l95C/P-I-



ANNIEX I
- 49 -ah 4a2
Page 2
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHAB!LITATION PROJET
SUPERVISION AND ADMINTSTRATION
(Rs. million)
FX r2               2Q        91       2a        22      rai
It.  SINEROVNCE
A. Provincial Coordinator's Office
Staff                              0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.4       1.6
Data Flow Center                   0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2       0.3       1.1
Computer Cell - Karachi            0.2       0.1       0.2      0.1       0.2       0.8
Design Center - Hyderabad          La,        Li.       Li      Li        Li        Li
Subtotal                       0.9       0.8      1.0       0.9       1.1      4.7
S. Others
Incentive to Additional Staff    0.1         0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.5
Travelling Fund                    0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.5
miscellaneous                      0.1       0.1         -        -         -       0.2
Expend.on Data Collection                    LA 21     ,Q       2L.                 LAi
Subtotal                       0.3       2.4      2.2       2.3       2.3      9.5
TOTAL (Sind Province)        1.2      3.2       3.2       3.2      3.4      14.2
III. N.WAL. PROVINCE
A.  Provincial Coordinator's Office
Staff                              1.6       1.7       1.6      1.7       1.7       8.3
Other                              LI    LA    Li    LA    ILL   LA
TOTAL (N.W.F. Province)    2.1        3.5       3.4       3.5       3.4     15.9
1 9SC/P-4                                                                        - 



AEXI
Tabl e 4
-50-                                      Page 3
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PRQJIECT
SUPERVISION AND ADMINISTRATION
(Rs. Million)
El        12 2Q                1        22               T Inal
IV. RALUCHISTAN PROVINCE
A. Secretary Office
Staff                               0.1      0.2       0.1       0.2       0.2       0.8
Other                               LI.                Li. O_                        Li
Subtotal                       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.2       0.3      1.1
B.  Chief Enaineer Office
Staff                               0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1       0.2       0.6
Other                               LI.                          LI                  L
Subtotal                       0.2       0.1       0.1       0.2       0.2      0.8
C.  Smrnrintendina Enaineeo' Office
Staff                               0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5       0.5       2.5
Other                               LA       I.2       LI        Li                 1.1
Subtotal                       0.9       0.7       0.6       0.7       0.7      3.6
0.  Provincial Coordinator OffLce
Staff                               0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       1.5
Other                               L.       .          --.1                           i
Subtotal                       0.5       0.3       0.4       0.3       0.4      1.8
E. pesian Office
Staff                               0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3       1.5
Other                                      2           1A        LA        L        _-
Subtotal                         0.5       1.2       1.2       1.1       1.0       5.0
TOTAL (Baluchistan
Province)        2.3       2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5      12.3
'95C/P-15



ANNEX I
51-                                   Tahl 
Pase 4
PAKISIM
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION AND AOMINISTRATION
(Federal Coordination Cell, Direct Support to PID and M8E)
Support to 1INI
(Rs. Million)
EX        A2        2Q       21        22       21      io
V. FEDERAL COORDINATION CELL
Staff                              1.2      1.2       1.3      1.2       1.3      6.2
Other                              2.Ql      Li.      L        l.       1Li       LI
Total FCC             3.2       2.2      2.3       2.2      2.4      12.3
VI.  DIRECT SUPPORT TO PIDS             69.6      51.6     28.5      27.9     24.9    202.5
VII.  MONITORING AND EVALUATION                             Ai LA Li          ..LS      thZ
Total Supervision 8 Adm.    79.8       60.7      37.7     37.0      37.2    252.4
SUPPORT TO IIMI
Civil Works                      16.2     15.0        -        -         _
Total IIMI                -in2                                            31.2
195C/P-16



-52-
ANNEX I
Table S
SECOND IVIIIATION SXSTEMS REHARLITATION PD.ICCT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINI
(tRs. HMiIion)
FY ~~~~2g    21. 22   2 
TeehnEcal  Iss stSnce
Long Term Advis. Team                 49.6      17.9      17.6      9.3       5.7    100.0
Project Preparation                  I1.        IL.2      uLl      I0 i2              _S10
Subtotal                        59.8      28.1     27.7      19.5      15.9    151.0
Local Sunorvisgrv Consultants
Salary and Overheads                   7.3       7.3       7.4      7.3      11.0      40.3
Other Expenses                         3.3       3.3       3.4       3.3      5.0      18.3
Transport and Equipment                6A          -         -         -        -      7.Z
Subtotal                        17.3      10.6     10.8      10.6      16.0     65.3
Cnnt1naOmines                            1.A      IO.          Z      ILA      1l        iLA
Total TA                                90.5      48.7      51.2     4.7       46.6    279.7
Trainini                                 35.8     35.8      35.8      35.8     35.8    179.0
Contingencies                          Li        2.1      12.0     lid-    1i 6         9
Total Training                        42.5    45.1       47.8     50.7      52.4    238.5
1 9SC/P- 12



-53-
ANNEX 1
Table 6
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of IDA Credit
(US$ Million)
FY and Semester           Per Semester     Cumulative
'89 First                  2.0               2.0
Second                  5.0              7.0
'90 First                  6.0              13.0
Second                  7.0             20.0
'91 First                  8.0              28.0
Second                  8.0             36.0
'92 First                  8.0              44.0
Second                  8.0             52.0
'93 First                  8.0              60.0
Second                  8.0             68.0
'94 First                  11.5             79.5



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procedures and Criteria For Determining Planning and Design Approach
Backaround
1.       The irrigation and drainage systems in Pakistan have deteriorated
progressively, mainly due to deferred maintenance. This resulted in frequent
breaches, poor distribution of irrigation water and less effective working of
the drainage systems. Various studies carried out between 1973 and 1979
culminated into execution of a First Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project
(1983-1988). The good results achieved from the first Rehabilitation Project
encouraged preparation for a second similar project to address mainly the
deferred maintenance. However, as a consequence of the construction of Indus
Basin Works under IBRD in the 60s such as the Mangla and Tarbela reservoirs
and link canals (which transfer water from one river to another resulting in
change of source of water supply to the existing systems) some hydraulic
problems, arising due to change in characteristics of sediment, also did
occur. Further due to the practice of allowing discharges more than original
to design capacities (mainly for growing more food and meet enhanced demands)
the requirements of O&M did increase. This also affected equity of irrigation
waters rather adversely.
2.       While the rehabilitation works were being executed in the first
Rehabilitation Project several studies and investigations were also carried
out relating to sediment flow, distribution of supplies. Also various
Hydraulic Design Criteria of channels, in vague as well as those suggested by
Advisors engaged on the Project, were critically examined. This was carried
out to address situation on those channels which could possibly have hydraulic
problems in addition to accumulated maintenance. Such studies have resulted
in adopting a procedure for verifying as to whether or not a system/subsystem
or channel has a hydraulic problem. In case a channel has a hydraulic
problem, under the Second Rehabilitation Project, it would be removed through
appropriate solution.
3.       In order to persue the above approach and also based on the
recommendation of PID Punjab's Committee of experts which, among others,
recommended that identification of problem of channels should be the
responsibility of field divisions and circles - (scrutinized as appropriate
by the Chief Engineers and PID's cxpert consultative group, it is considered
appropriate to adopt a comprehensive, but simple criteria for the
determination of a channel/reach as problematic. Broadly, a channel or a
reach may be considered as problematic if it suffers from one or more of the
following:
(i)    it cannot safely take the discharge it is intended to pass,
(ii)    it has a chronic tail shortage problem,



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(iii)   it has a history of periodic silt clearance, overgrown berms or
breaches, and
(iv)    the outlets have a persistent and general complaint of short
discharges and/or heavy silt induction.
DETAILED PROCEDURES FOR IDENTIFYING SYSTEMS/SUBSYSTEMS WITH HYDRAULIC PROBLEMS
4.       The above criteria (para. 2) is in line with the existing PID rules
and is generally acceptable to IDA, USAID and Netherlands. It is therefore
used as a basis for developing planning and design procedures for systems/
subsystems to be rehabilitated in ISRP-II (see para. 4 and attachment A --
schematic drawing - Procedures for Rehabilitation of Irrigation
Sys'.em/Subsystems).
5.       In view of the foregoing, identification o4 systems/subsystems with
hydraulic problems is now an important consideration in ISRP-II, because such
determination is essential to deciding those system/subsystems requiring
addressing of the same and those that could be rehabilitated to take care of
the accumulated maintenance. For identifying as to whether or not systems/
subsystems have hydraulic problems, the procedure detailed below would be
followed:
(a) The condition survey of the channels would be appropriately updated
based on the following:
(i)   Moghas would be checked against the outlet register.  The actual
inspection of mogha discharges consists of measuring the
hydraulic head over the sill from a reference level while
"authorized discharge" (see para. 4(b)(ii) for definition) flows
in the feeding canal. The mogha flow is then computed from data
pertaining to the type and size of mogha. The presence of flow
modularity is verified at the same time;
(ii)   The "authorized discharge" in the distributary or minor would be
checked by current meter measurements or similar method at the
head of reach, concurrently with the verification of mogha
discharges. Rating curves at structures would be developed/
checked for verification of canal flows. PIDs are generally
capable of handling this procedure, however, initially they may
need to seek assistance from other organizations such as ACOP or
a local consulting firm to assist them.
(iii)   Cross-sections would be taken along distributaries and minors at
1000' intervals covering the complete channel formation
(toe-to-toe of channel banks), and at critical sites, e.g. near
structures. This interval is considered to be sufficiently
accurate for both hydraulic and non-hydraulic design computations
in distribution canals. Cross-sections would be taken at shorter
intervals, say 500', along conveyance channels (main and branch
canals) in view of required accuracy for engineering estimates of
the works, and



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
iv)    Longitudinal section would be provided indicating the following
details:
- authorized discharge
- bed width
- depth of flow
- any other properties defining the channel prism such as value
of "n" in the case of a lined channel, etc.
- location of outlets with type, capacity and setting
- bank widths
- berm widths, where applicable
The updated condition survey would provide a description of the actual
situation in the channel from both the hydraulic and physical point of view.
It would form the basis for the design of the required rehabilitation works.
(b) The determination of design flow would be as follows;
(i)  Design flows in the system/subsystem would be based on the
authorized flows for each outlet plus amounts added (measured or
estimated) for percolation and other water losses in the
distribution system.
(ii)   If the present operating flow (as of 1 July 1981, ref. SAR ISRPI,
9 April 1981, section 3.03) is greater than the design flow, then
this actual flow would be considered as authorized discharge for
the purpose of rehabilitation. Otherwise, the original design
flow would be utilized.
(c) Analysis of the results of the condition survey would be carried out
as follows;
(i)   The updated data of the updated condition survey would be
analysed by PID, which will declare a channel as problematic
(hydraulically) in accordance with the agreed criteria stated in
para. 2 above.
(ii)   Channels found to be free of hydraulic problem would be
rehabilitated to render it safe for operations (deferred
maintenance) without redesign.
(iii)   Channels would be redesigned when there is hydraulic problem.
PIDs would propose solutions to the identified problems.
(iv)   For purposes of ISRPP-II, the definition of equitable
distribution is that no outlet would receive less than its
authorized entitlements as established in the official records of
the PIDs.



57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
CLEARANCES BY COFINANCIERS
6.       In addition to the routine concurrence to the scheme (tender
documents, cost estimates, etc.) prior to inviting tenders, the cofinanciers
would be required to make two official clearances in the above procedure.
These clearances would be in respect of the updated condition survey along
with its interpretation, and proposed design solution to the identified
problem. However, in order to expedite rehabilitation works in the case of
channels declared by PIDs as non-problematic, as indicated on the attached
plate..., the clearance of scheme is combined with clearance of updated
condition survey and its interpretation. In order to ascertain that this
modification (combining two clearances) is practicable and would be useful it
is required that for FY88 schemes the first 10 updated condition surveys and
PIDS interpretation of the same to identify problems (5 in Punjab, 3 in Sind
and 2 in NWFP) will be submitted to cofinanciers for information and review,
by March 1, 1988. Based on this review the decision to combine the two
clearances would be confirmed or reversed.
It w'ould be understood that the cofinanciers would have 30 days to
complete their required reviews, otherwise the PIDs could consider the
clearance requirement waived. In the case of the Netherlands, this clearance
action generally would be the responsibility of the supervisory consultants,
however, all tender documents in excess of Rs 2.0 M would be submitted to IDA
for clearance prior to tendering and later concurrence on the award of works
to the contractor would also be obtained from IDA on such schemes. It is
envisaged that the supervisory consultants would carry out the following:
(a)  Random checks would be made on 102 of the data relating to the
updated condition survey;
(b) Full review of the redesign of all problematic systems/subsystems,
including reaches proposed for lining, would be performed.
(c)  The above checks and reviews would result ir. acceptance or rejection
of the schemes. PIDs standards and rules would generally be followed.
It is considered that if sampled and verified data/quantities are
found within 10 percent, then PIDs data/quantities would be
acceptable.
Attachment



- 58 -                              ATTACHMENT A
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procedure for Rehablitating Irrigation Systems/Subsystems
Starl ~ ~     ~    esg  Cerac
P U> Pdated
oncitbon 8urvey
No        _         X              __sYes
Hydraulc P05 Prear
V & 2/ ~      ~       Scem
-  Shom              No        |                          RetelgC
Scheme
Cleatanc
PPDs   Execute
Works
Full
I     Funded O&M
V See pars 5 h the text of the procedure.
2/ For critorla In respect of Hydrauc problem retor para 2 In the text.
3) Prepaation of the scheme to take care of the othor problom which may Inciude:
osaoty. sit clbarance. overgrowth of berms. ropairs to structures etc.                P/*40562c



59 -AN     3
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REIAIILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
FY                 89        90       91        92        93
1. Civil Works, S
Punjab                20        20        20       20        20
Sind                  1S        20        25       22        18
NWFP                  20        20        22       20        18
Baluchistan           20        20        22       20        18
2.   Procurement of
Equipment and
Vbehicle. -s
3.   Local and Interna-
tional consultant
contracting
service                 -
4.   Submission of
Annual Work Plan   _          _        _                  _
Evaluation Program
Quarterly Report    _ _ _        _  _  _   _ _          - _ __
Annual Report                                    -         -
Audit Report



ANNEX 4
-60 -                      Page l
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervisory Consultants' Terms of Reference
Description of Works
1.        For the purpose of this agreement, a team of local supervisory
consultants, supplied by a consulting firm, will be engaged by the Ministry of
Water and Power to provide certain professional, engineering and technical
services for the purpose of carrying out certain prescribed assignments
related to the overall coordination and implementation of ISRP-II. The team
shall report to the Chief Engineering Advisor in the Ministry of Water and
Power, and shall be under his immediate supervision. However, the team's
major responsibility would be to assist the Provincial Irrigation Departments
in implementation of the project.
2.        All project records and sites shall be open and available to this
team of consultants
Scope of Work
3.        The supervisory consultant team shall perform the following services:
a) review PIDs' annual Project Work Plans to determine, among other
things, compliance with GOP, GOProvinces and IDA agreements on:
(i) eligibility of schemes to be rehabilitated; (ii) schedules,
targets and levels of proposed funding for rehabilitating
schemes, and (iii) adequacy and followup on O&M Program of Work
including levels of funding to ensure maintenance of such
funding in FY1987-88 real terms, and adequate O&M funding for
new schemes becoming operational;
b) spot-check all up-dated condition surveys of the
systems/subsys ems, carried out by PIDs, including review of the
analysis and conclusions drawn by PIDs in relation to
identification of hydraulic problems;
c) spot-check all rehabilitated schemes during construction and
upon completion to determine quantities and quality of work
performed;
d) assist the Federal Co-ordination Cell in the office of the Chief
Engineering Advisor in;
i.     preparing consolidated Annual Work Plan after review of
the PIDs annual Work Plans (item 3(a) above, due July 31
of each year));



- 61 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 2
ii.    monitoring project program and preparing consolidated
quarterly and annual progress reports, and Project
Completion Report, based on data supplied by PIDs
(progress reports due within 45 days of the end of each
reporting period and Project Completion Report within six
months of closing date of project).
iii    preparing monthly summary progress reports (due within 15
days of the end of the reporting period);
iv.    maintaining consolidated accounts for the project;
v.     ensuring annuial audits of PIDs and FCC accounts as
agreed, by furnishing detailed data on physical program
and quantity and quality control as may be required by
the auditors for preparing the audit reports and
certification as required by the cofinancing
organizations;
vi.    preparing, certifying and submitting reimbursement
applications to IDA following verification.
The Consultant's Team
4.        The team would consist of the following full-time members:
Profession             Number               Man-Years
Project Engineer          1                      5.5
Resident Engineers        4                     22.0
Fields Engineers
(civil)             16                     88.0
Office Engineers          3                     16.0
Sub-engineer/
Inspector             16                     88.0
Coordination Engr.        1                      5.5
41                    225.0
5.        The Project Engineer and immediate supporting staff would be located
in Islamabad in close proximity to the Federal Coordinating Cell of the
project. Field personnel will be located in all four Provinces, as mutually
agreed to by the Cell, PIDs and consulting firm. Required office space would
be provided by the firm.
6.        The consulting firm's fee would include all personnel costs
(salaries, allowances and other related expenses); firm's overhead, office
rent, office equipment, transport, utilities as well as clerical support and
drivers. In addition, the firm would provide back-up staff support and
supervision services and technical assistance from its headquarters as
required.



ANNEX 4
-62                        Page 3
Condition of Pro lect Effectiveness
7.        A signed agreement for consultancy services for this project between
the Government and the consulting firm would be a condition of project
effectiveness and would be completed on or before June 30, 1988.



PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Croupina Patterns and Yields
Puniab               Sind                  NWFP             Baluchistan
X     KK/ha        X     K/ha           X      Kalha                 Kg/ha
KHARIF
Rice
Present             9.2    1,300       5.3    2,040          2.0   1550           1.0    1.570
Without             8.7    1,300        5.0    2,040         1.8    1,SSO          0.9    1,570
With               10.0    1,430        5.0    2,200         2.2    1,680          1.1    1,700
Cotton (Lint)
Present            16.7       326     23.0       368          -        -            -       -
Without            15.8       326      22.0      368          -        -            -        -
Witht              17.1       360      24.0      420          -        -            -
Sorghum
Present            13.3       SSO      3.2       630          -        -           3.2      650
Without            13.3       550       3.2      630          -        -           3.2      650
With               13.3       S95       3.2      680          -        -           3.2       700
Maize
Present              -        -          -       -          14.7    1,250           -       -                                        GN
Without              -        -          -       -          14.7    1,250           -       -
With                 -        -          -       -          15.0    1,350           -       -
Fodder
Present             4.5   13,340        1.7   12,450         2.4   17,230          1.0   1S,860
Without             4.5   13,340        1.7   12,450         2.4   17,230          1.0   15,860
With                4.8   14,000        1.7   13.100         2.4   18,100          1.2   16,650
Vegetables
Present              -        -        3.0    4,650          2.5   10,000          3.8   10,700
Without              -        -         3.0    4,650         2.2   10,000          3.0   10,700
With                 -        -         3.3    4,880         2.7   10,310          4.0   11,020
Pulses
Present.            5.8       600       -        -           4.7       510         1.5      720
Without             5.8       600        -       -           4.7      S5O          1.S      720
With                5.9       650        -       -           4.7       540         1.5      760
Melons
Present              -        -         -        -            -        -           1.7   15.030
Without              -        -          -       -            -        -           1.4   15,030
With                 -        -          -       -            -        -           1.7   15,480
Wheat
Present            38.0    1,600      27.6    1,900         27.5    l,1SO        20.0    1,550
Without            36.5    1,600      26;2    1,900         26.5    1,150         19.0    1,5S0                           ce
With               39.4    1,760      28.8    2,100         30.0    1,240         22.0    1,670                        0
'-' u'



PEKISIM
SECObD IRRIGATION SYSTENS RDHIARLzTAMT  PotEOcT
Crapmine Patterns and Yields
Puntab               Sind                 NWFP            Baluchistan
I     Ka/bha             Kg2/ha          X    Ka/ha                K aL_a
Fodder
Present             7.0    25,520    25.0    30,780         4.9    29,700        2.1    27.070
Without             7.0    25,520    25.0    30.780         4.9    29,700        2.1    27,070
With                7.1    26,280    27.0    32,320         4.9    31,250        2.5    27.880
Oilseeds
Present             2.9       850      1.0       770        0.3       590         -        -
Without             2.9       850      1.0       770        0.3       590         -        -
With                3.5       920      1.3       810        0.5       640         -        -
Vegetables
Present              -        -       3.1      6,290        1.6    13.760        1.8     8,090
Without              -        -        3.1     6,290        1.4    13,760        1.2     8,090
With                 -        -        3.4     6,600        1.8    14,170        2.0     8,330
Pulses
Present             7.6       620       -        -           -        -           -        -
Without             7.6       620       -        -           -        -           -        -
With                7.9       670       -        -           -        -           -        -
Tobacco
Present              -        -         -        -          2.8     1,500         -        -
Without              -        -         -        -          2.5     1,500         -        -
With                 -        -         -        -          3.0     1,575         -        -
PERENNIAL
Sugarcane
Present            6.5    34,740      2.5    41,060        13.0    38,800         -        -
Without             6.5    34,740      2.5    41,060       12.5    38,800         -        -
With                6.8    36,450      2.8    43,110       13.2    39,960         -        -
Orchards
Present             2.4     9,490     3.2      7.740        2.8    10.100       13.0     9,050
Without             2.4     9,490      3.0     7,740        2.5    10,100       12.0     9,0SO
With                2.6     9,770      3.4     7,970        3.0    10,400       15.2     9,320
CROPPING INTENSITY. ANNUAL                                                                                               'w,.g
Present           122.8              82.2                 95.0                  62.1                                      _
Without           120.0               79.1                 91.4                 57.3                                 S I-'
With              127.4               87.0                 99.6                 69.5
0040C. PP. 7-*



PAKISTAN
SECNON IRRIGAiffON SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PfO3~
Summary  fa    doets
(Constant 1987 Rs)
Cropped  Cropping       Gross                  Net      Net Prod. Value Per    Total         Hired
Area    Intensity  Production   Input    Production   Cropped   Family          Labor       Labor
Fa-n mo2del        _  hal       (%)I         Value   _Costs        Value       Area    Work D&Z    (Man Day)  (Man Dayl
1.  Punjab, 5 ha
- with project           5.97       119        26,516      11,224     15,292       2,561      55           347         69
- without prroject       5.S4       111        22,762      8.800      13,962       2,520      50           304         26
- incremental            0.43         8         3,754      2,424       1.330          41       1            43         43
2. Sind, 5 ha
- with project           4.14        83        26,603      8,465      18,138       4,381      76           300         60
- without project        3.94        79        23,772       7,154     16,618       4,218      69           273         33
- incremental            0.20         4         2,831       1,311      1,S20         16        7            27         27
3.  NWFP, 1 ha
- with proJect           0.85        85         5,744       1,179      4,565       5,371      80            57         -
- without project        0.76        76         4,467       1,018      3,449       4,538      72            4          -8
- incremental            0.09         9         1,277         161      1,116         833       8             9          -
4. Baluchistan, 3 ha
- with project           1.61        54        28,696       3,650     25.046      15,557     234           119          12
- without project        1.34        45        21,890      2,664      19,226      14,348     208            93         -
- incremental            0.27         9         6,806         986      5,8Y0       1,209      26            26          12
'Perennial crops' (sugarcane and orchard) acreage only counted once per year.
0040C. P. 0
FE



SEIIIID  til Pll    SIMBl4I      C
rU  3a  MJ# 5 U FM FosSiNb
FINIEI 'tOUT
(to WSW,
FIWAM NO9
litlwA                              91 PNjct 
1      2       3       4    5t20    £          2       3      4    5.2c   1         2      3      4   5t20
315                               1,465.1 194.92  1,433.3 147.3 19401.4 14651 1bl    t1651.1  1701.1 tp75I.C        -  137.6  217.9  233.1  3584
CTUS am)                          3,713.3 3,669.1 36249 3,51.4 192.2 1713.3 3*91U.0 4916.5 4211.6 4,295.3           -  3U.t  491.7  675.2  l30.6
f .433.    63.9   43.9   4o.   43.    63.9.  670.2   400.7   dUS   691.2                                            -   32.4   4.S   47.6   52.3
K. FIE                             396.9 39                  6.9 " S   396.9 396.t  410.7   414.7  416   416        -   11.3   15.8   17.0  19.7
s                                 1WW.I 191236.  1,..   1.26.1 1223 1.1  1.36.1 1*365.4 1,4.1  1417.9 1.453.        -   79.3  116.9  t31.0  167.7
NOT                               6#.0*600 6,016.0 5,952.0 s.,0  5.1140 6*4.0  6512.46 6.2 6#906.2 7040.0           -  496.6   7.2 1018.2 1,216.0
. FM                               9.2   893.2    3.2  89.2  693.2  092              .t   929.0   9315   93.0       -   269   35.3   40.3   44.8
01.55                              311.O   314.5   36.1   301.6  297.5   33.6   56.4   379.?   191    43.1          -   41.9   71.   9"   115.
3h3C         311                   31.9  3,361.4  340.9 3s,310.2 3,279,5 3,311.9 31515.0 3,131.2 3J.19.0 3,3.6     -  153.6  260. 3109.   319.2
omI (M I)                         5,249.9 5,249.9 5,249*9 5,249.9 5,249.9 5.29.9 5,476,4 5,642.5 5743.  5*132       -  226.S  192.6  49.   63
S.*-Total Nbin P,uaUtn             23,426.0 23,277*1 2311261 22,920.7 2271.6 21S426.0 24801.7 25,511.7 26040.4 26,s56O  - 1524.5 2411.5 3,119.7 3,750.5
Nt  la  of Z3PH&CUM                246.0 23,277.1 231126,1 22920.7 22761. 21O26.0 24,801.7 25437.7 26040.*4 26516.0    - 1,524.5 2411.S 3,119.7 3,74.5
b*ft tir                                                                                                                                                              cft
Iswts
RICE 55                        20.2   20.0   19.3   19.         9.*4   20,2   20.7   21,1   21.6   22.0        -    0.7    1.3    2.0    2*6
FELI mU                      1599.1  1,57.1 1,515.0 155t.1  1,5667  1,5".l 1..0  1,720.5 1,7*15 1,142.3        -   70.9  145  222.4  295.5
FBtILUEI RNWU1E               93.2  s53.3   579.3   S73.4  56.9  93.2    0.4   61.9   65.9   679.7             -   26.6   54.6   63.4  110.0
FTILI  PMtS                     4.3    4.3    4.1    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.5          4.8    5.0    5.1       -    0.2   .*4    0.6    0.3
PnTICUE  MM                  1,124.6 1,114.1 1,103.3 1.4.S  10.O l,2.3 1,140.1 1115.9 1,169.9 1,134.0         -   26.3  52.5   65.5  111.
33165 PM                    2,744,0 2,727.4 2,706.3 2,676.6 2,5.4 2760 2 .6.0 2,317.5 280.1 263.2              -   534  111.2  171.4  223.6
llIua-ME                      36.*6  375.3  373,0  369.2  366.4   375.6  31.2   383.3   m9    397.0            -    7.4   15.3   23.5  30.6
CoTl  RE                       45.4   44*.   44*.3   43.2   42.7   45.4   45.9   46.4   47.0   47.*            -    1.1   2.2   3.       4.9
_     Om                       22.3   22.6   22.6   22.8   22.3   22.6   22.3   22.3   22.3    2.3             -      -      -      -      -
L. FO_l MD                     23.3   23.8   26.8   28.3   26.3   26.6   26.8   28,    23.8   20.0             -      -      -      -      -
FiLE Om38                      31.2   18.2   30.2   33.2   13.2  31.2   136    39.1   39.2   39.9              -    0.5   0.9    1.0    1.7
AT IED                        495.9   49.7   4s5.5   460.2  475.0  495.9  501.1   50.0   516.8  522.0          -   10.4   2.5   36.5  47.0
R. fO_ OD                     210.   210.0   210.0   210.0  210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0      -      -      -      -      -
ESI                           6.9    6.0    6,7    6.5    6.4    6,4    7.4    7.7    3.1    1.3             -    0.6    1.1    1.5   1.6
S    lEE OTIUM                526.0  524.3   51.6   516.8   512.0  523O0  512.3  537.6  540a   544.0           -    8.0   16.0   24.0   32.0
2oa   6ELUh                   336.0   336.0   3        36.0  336.0   6.0    34.4   352.   358.4   364.0        -    6.4   16.3  22.4   23.0
b-Toa  IN""                    8,175.1 6,I11.4 0,054,  7,971.2 7,907.9 3,175.1 8329.7 834962 8,649.3 8M.5        -  214t4  44.3  678.1  00.6
Hice4 Labo
PUISLSE                     1WS29.3 1,176.2 1,092.4  97.t  89.8 1,259.3 1,563.3 1847.4 2,139.2 2,425.9         -  167.1  715.11160.1 1434.0
SOtal erh.iat                     9 A436.4 9 .16 9147.13 8395.4 3.m9.7 9434.4 9473. 10,343.4 10,78.6 11t224.4       -  9t1. 1#196.4 1833.2 2,424.7
CASH FLUNH DEF  FIICINB             13,991.6 13*5.6 13,978.9 13,970.3 139961.9 13,M.6 14.926,6 1SI,94.1 1S251.8 IM.7  -  943,1 1,215.2 1o2SB.5 1,29.6
mewr 30D 1987 15:37



SE   WS 119611 919191 E9IDITATIU VUACT
TAILE  3b SM  5 # FM Fm  fId,?
tin %PM)
Fl9Mt TE
FUlm                                    With pyjit                                  In,omta
1      2       3       4    11.20    1        2      3       4       5       1o2D   1     2      3      4      5   6to20
_1 _                               K_a  -   -  _        -       -     _m        _sl__
Isi Pvafelgmnt
R1K                              1,4994 1,499.4 1499.4      94 1499.4  1,499   1,5B.2 1,111.7 1,665.2 I,17.0 1,17.0      -   13.0  62.3  115.8  117.   I7.6
C0l1I MUM!)                      5,t336 5,713.6 5,U8.7 5,463.7 5,13.  573.M6 6197.  6409.5 660.3 6#.77    6,94.2         -4839  720.3  96. 1.13B.5 t1195.4
mm"                                219.2  21t.2  219.2  219.2  219.2   219.2  227.9  231.4  236.9  226.6  236.6          -    87   12.2  15.7  17.4  17.4
K. FlWID                           174.3  174.3  174.3  174.3  174.3  174.3  173.9   15.7   125   1334   14              -     4.5   6.4   9.2   t.t    9.1
K. IMAM  (T )                    1,023.  1030 1,023.0 1,30  1413.0 1023.0 19048.3 13.4  108.51 1                0734  13.4  -   25.3   35.4  64.    0.*6  50.6
Imm 5T266.0 5,206.0 5,120.0 5,0.0  4,97.0 5,244.0 5#510.0 5,52.8  ,W.2 6049.0 606.0                                      -  36.0  622.9  853.2 1070#.0 1,00.0
L. 3,                              169.4  369.4   39.4  369.4  369.4   69.4   30.4   186.1  390   3W7.   3W.3l               11.1   14.9  16.6  18.5   18.
on131                              19%4   196.4   164   1964   1964   1964   201.5  203.13 25   2066   206.6             -     5.1   7.1   9.2  10.2  10.2
B.       m  (                    1,509.  1,5309.6 1509.6 15596 1,559.6 1,50946 1,5.8  1,51.?  1,576.6 1,5.0 1,18.0       -   37.2  52*1   67*.0  74.4  744
IEU                              1s,231.8 l1,231.  1,23 1.3   1,23.8  1,2.9 ,231.  1,262.6 t,274.9 1,28.2 1,M.3 1,293.3  -   30.3  43.1   5.4  61.5   61.5
138 (M1511)                      69131.9 6931.9 6,931.9 6931.9 693t.9 6,931.9 7, 9 7.076.1 7117.3 72137.9 7,17.9         -  103.0  144.2  U1.4  206.0  256.0
ITal Iid s PN n                    24,137.6 24 ,74.6 23 973.7 23,372.7 23M,7.8 2417  21,169 2714.? 26*211.3 265. 26402.5    - 1,122.3 1,741.2 2,3JI,5 27M.8 23l0.7
at NW  0t P,aRtt                   24,13.* 24,474.6 2397.7 238727 23,tM1  24,137,6 25,196*9 25,714*9 26h211.3 2655.*6 26h.5  - 1122.3 1,741.2 2,31.5 2,773.8 2,36.7
Piohim Cst                                                                                                                                                                        I
b .144
111K RED                     t13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   132    13.2   132    13.2   13.2            -      -      -      -      -                         I
fTIU  I3130K                1,319.5 1*354.0 1.144,7 1,115.5 1,316.2 1319.5 1400.9 1,66   194.9 1,15.7 1,t9.1        -   4169  101.9  1S.5  209.5  213.3
FERTUJER _UIE                494.1  492m1   431h9   485.7  482.5  4"4.1    Mot.1  525.5  560.8. 5.7   5S.1          -   16.9   U.   55.1   75.2  76.6
mUmTLIZR M01                  18.0   13.0   16.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   IB.5   18.9   19.4   19.8   19.8    -    0.4   0.9   1.4   1.8   1.8
viiiiCI In                 1,258.0 1*254.3 1,250.6 1246.9 19243.2 1,290.  1,215*4 1272J.  1,28.2 1,57.6 1,295.0    -   11.1  22.2   3.3  44.4  51.3
3A1OCI S1W                  1,742.0 1,73515 IM720 1,714.5 1704.0 19742*0 1,751.0 1764,0 177n.0 1786.0 1M91.0        -   15.5  39.0  18.5  32.0  07.0
Ulu-a                        36.   3657   346.2  362.8  341.3  3266    3680   369.9  351.3  353.2  354.1            -    2.    5.7   8.6   11.9  12.8
an3133on                      62.1   61.    61.6   61.3   61.0   62.1    4.6   43.2   43.7   64.3   64.3            -    0.6   1.    2.4   3.2   3.8
_3                             6.9    6.9    6.9    6.9       6.9    6.9    6.9      6.9   64.9    6.9    6.9       -      -      -      -      -      -
K1. f     WEDI                12.5   12U.    12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12,5   12.5   12.5   12.5           -      -      -      -      -      -
KIM=E    _                    24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0   24.0
MDT ED                        400.2    73   39.s   355.7  379.9  461.2  491.1   408.9   41t1   417.6  417.6         -    5.8   17.4  26.4   3.7   D.7
R. F_ IIIE                    60.00    0      00    00                0.0   40.0     00      0.0     O       0.0    -      -      -      -      -      -
0Wl1 UWD                       4.6    4.6    4.6    4.        4.6    4.6    4.6    46        4.6    4.6    46       -      -      -      -      -      -
II_IE 5N .-N                 160.0   1.0   160.0  14O.O  160.0  140.0  140.0   10.    140.0  140.0  140.0
mirn EDS                      3M.0   31.00 33640  336.0   M2    336,0  326.0  136.0   36.0   36.0   36.0
9*-Toa IeAS                   6297.7 6275.9 h62417 6,207,5 6,1733 6,297.7 6h375.8 64w.1l 61                            -   99.9  225.4  3A8.   465.7  48
31,43 Labs
IID 1                       1,143O 1t114.8 1,070.1 1,0284  938.7 11430 1,292.5 1440.0 1,61.  1732.0 1,.             -  177.7  3A9.9  34  301.3  18.9
h-Tal 9.1.                       7,440#7 7,390.7  ,t311.8 7222?9 7,1540 7,440.7 7,648.3 7,927l 8,13.I 8,421.0 3464.7     -    .5  615.3  925.2 1267.0 1T,310.7
M  FLU 1II W  FAN                  16U96.91613.9 16419 16439.9 16617.3 16.9 175.7 1787.3 Ih           2 1h124.6 1831d3.     -  941t125.9 1,413.3 1506#7 19520.0
_ 316,137 15SD7



'Fa   3c   1         I a FMl f  P WM
fMLM
31t"                             1th Pvokt                       iwu"mta
_       1     2      3      4   5 20    1        2      3      4    Stob         1    2    3  4   5U20
binh
1m                                 7h0   7.   74.0  76h0   76.0  760  79.1    0.4   1.7   S2.3    -  3.2  4.5   5.7   h4
I1                                 11.9  11.9  1.9  301,9 1 1911.9 J9   H   31W31     .   3409  37.8    -    32.5   39.0  45.*
.    ULIB "am                      3180  294.   2O  2.2v  212.0  310  32L9   24.9  326.9  379    - 2               9.9      7  115.9 IW
h FU                               41*4   41.4  41.4   4.4   4.4   4.4   42.4  4263   43.2   44    -  1.0  1.5    1.9   2.1
E                                  S2.9   02.9   32.9  82.9   S2.9  S2.    O5M    3h3   67.3 .S           -  2.4  3.4    4.4    4.9
M                                  44T 4.0  4S U .O   0.5  533.   440  43.2  703.5  72.3  740    -   S 263.5  11                144.0
TOll                               31.5  21t.4  21.3  221.1  201.0  311.5  300  3.1  315.1  31.    - 27.4 40.    94.   I1
3. I'l                             200.5  200.5  25005  210.5  200.5  200.5  206.   2.6  209A   2104    -  5.1  .1   9.1   10.1
oILE                               15.    15.2  15.2     2   15.2    52    MO   16.1    h4   1.5    -  0    0.9  . 1.2    1.3
a.  tTIS (IiS                      3302  2n.2  247.7  193.1  15.1  33.2  3L2   W.1  339.1  340.1    - 3.9               141.0    O0
IANE                             1,432.7 1,452.7 162.27 1,2.71,432.7 1,4527 1474.414.1141.1,4S 94         - 2730.4   N          43.4
O 1 441)                         141.0 1519.0 1,410.9 1.2321, S1.7 1dI.0 1706.0 1.71U.0 1724.0 1731O    - IV.0 315.1  493.2  410I3
Si-oabl bit, p5.et                  5,44525.247,3 4.956.2 4,5.1, 640.2 544562 5S50 5,43 35 1.15.7439    - 3V27.A.1 1,3.01,2747
811* v1g or Pruit                  5,442 5S247.3 4W9J2 4,I5.1 4472 54452 5,55. 5,43  5M70.15 5743.9    - 327.7 8.1 1.01S.0 1274.7
am  3ED                        0.9    0.9   0.9    O       0.9    0.9    0.9    09    09    0.9    -    -    -         -      -
FEBT1UEt 1oil                214.1  210.1  2H4.7  19.4  115.3  214.1  221.3  223.   236.4  24*.3    - Ut2 24*1   37.0  435
FOWL=  U U                    VA a.           635.5   61.5 4 60.1    .0  692  71.5  73n.s        .   - 3     7.9  12.2   6.0
FIliED Mli                     4.4   4.1    3,6   3.2    2.t   4.4    4.5    4.4    4.7    4.9    -  0.4  1.0    14    2.0
RI8ICI3 MP                    37.0  S3.5   71.3  73.1   69.4  37.0  37.0   S7.0   37.0  S7.0    -  3.5  L.7  13.9  17.4
iUL    1IP                  23.   252.5  2463  21.1   2 234.32 34.   2.   261*.0  2642  245.2    -  6.2 14.2  22.2   2.4
i   13-Em                     73.   72.6   70.9   0.2  68.0  73.3   74.2   74.7  75.1   75.5    -  t.6  3.8   5.9   7.4
amN gmD                       15.2   15.2  15.2   15.2   12   1.2   1.4   15.7  U1.0   12    -  02  0.5   0.3    1.0
UTiLE am                       2.4    2.2   1.    1.4    1.4   2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4    -  0.2  0.5   0.3    1.0
I.FUIIBU                       2.5   2.5   2.5    2.5   2.5    2.5    2.    2.5   2.5    2.5    -    -    -            -      -
MIE IE                         2.9    2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9   2.9    -    -    -           -     -
lU TED                        7.1   71.8   7.5 4S.2  U7.9   7           74.4  75.7   77o   73.3    -  2.4  5.2  7n3   10.4
TUM   On                       0.     0.7   0.4   0.5    0.5    0.7   0.    0.7    0.7   0.7    -  0.0  0.1    0.2    0.2
R. FIII  ID K0m0   30.0 10.0   3.0.   10.0   10.0   30                           .0 30.0    00  .0    -    -    -     -       -
iltg                           0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5   0.5    05    0.5    -    -    -           -      -
EImE CIoll                   2030  203.   203.0  20.0  2s.0  20.0  203.   203    20   20             -    -    -      -       -
1EBLIlu                       34.0  78.4   70.0  61.6  5h60   30   34.0    60   30   84.0    -  54 14.0  .22.4   2o
-Tel.  1uts                   1.12h3 1t*1013 17.S 1040.3 10.4 112.U3 117 13  115.1 17.                  - 3S3 EO3O  1243  140.5
N,i" L*sw
P W_M                            -             0                       -     -     -      - 00°                               -
SITotabl b     u                 1n12t.3 1*101.3 1,00a 140.3 1t018A.4 1,12  1*313.7 1.1. IU52 1.178.11    - 35.3  0.0   2a.   140.5
tEM  FUI  MM FDIII                 4,321.9 4.1459.3 4 3       B 3346 .4,321.9 4,IL4 44,4   4 4d 59 4 .1    - 2S2.4 4Ol   914.1 1.1143
I     10 1967 I5lux



TMi  3d WWWA 3 3 FM Fern ON
fDpmllL  -X 
1      2       3       4    5to20    t         2       3       4    51.201t          2      J      451.30
66th P,ukctna ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ltwASb t§lt                                                                 snaf
RU                                  11S54   115.4   U5.4   115.4   115*4   15.4  132.2  146.5   1.1   I6             -    A         So1.1   41.7   51.2
_                                   11.4   114.4  114.4    1 4.4 114.4   14        1188   12.       2.3    123.2     -    4.4   6h2    7.9    3
K. WEAE  (TUT)                    t127.2 1,212.4  1,13.6  1,07.  1,046.0 1t271.2 1,23.4  1,346.6 1,400.3 t14232      -  112.0  2130  a32.5  33.2
WE                                1202.4   12.2   901.1   MA    61.2 1P202.4 1,22.4 1W227.6 1 .8 123.*4              -  13.2   3.8B  513.4   37.2
I. F_                                64*2   64.2    64.2   64.2   64.2   64*2    70.2   77.6         0      1W.9     -    6*0   13.3   20.8   25.7
PM                                  1120   112.0   112.0   112.0  1l12O   IU.O   1.1t   U63   117.6   112            -    3.t   4.4    56    6.2
MSAT                              1,110.0 1,329.0 1.79    1n2.s 1,767.0 1,8     1,964*2 245.2 2U2.2 224.4            -  13.2  22.2  339.7  43.4
Rs IICETuLIO (0111O0)               48.5   3nM2   Wa.7   343.2   263   405   431.2   43*.7   4.6    504.8            -   39.0  91.0  143.4  130
R. F l                              M24   292.4   292.4  292.4   292.4   292.4   20        323.4  326.3   31.3       -   14.3   31.0   47.9   5 0.t
O      (Fl)                      19,396. 18,911.1 18.426,2 17941.3 17456.4 19t26.0 20177.4 20,7.1 21,906.4 22,471.5  - 1,26.4 2,364.9 3,946.2 5 1
Us-Tot 661* Pfoduti                 24,386.4 24,16U. 2344.6 22344*5 21,339.3 24,32*4 2S3U15 2,456.4 27974.6 23.4       - t173533 MOR.A 3S90.0 6O3 .6
611 aIb 0 Pratin                    24686.4 24,126.1 22347. 223 4*5 21319.3 2435.4 2 2,61      3*.516.4 27174.6 3B06.4  -1,715.3 3l,e8 .3,O3O    4,806.6
P,.,ti. Cost
hefts                                                                                                                                                             0'
Rn  ED                          1.3    1U3      103    1.3    1.3    1U3        1.5    1.6    1.7       lo8     -    0.1    0.3    0.4    0.4
FERUTJI  IITIEil              384*    376*8   34.6  3U*S   354.7   34.3  4*3.5   422.9  449.9   472.t    -   2.?  54.3   no.  117.5
FET        UIIIITE             118.0  115.3   112.*6  110.1   107.7   118.0   1239   130.1   13.7   145.7       -    8.6   1*5   29.6    3.O
FERILInE MOTSK                 14.4   14.0   13.7    13.3    I0        14.4   15.1   15.9   17.0   17.8         -    1.1    2.2    3.7    4.9
FUTICIIeS   JEHIa/            42.0   469.2   454.3  42*3   425.5  46330   494*5   5hO         29.0   540.5     -   25.3  51.    89.7  1U.0
KLB  IUISlU          l        422.0   423.2   413.3   405.8  39A.4   432*0   441.9   452.7   4.    480.8        -   to17   3.9 4?3.0 l i2.4
331543335                     2001t  195,0   196   14.*6  179,8  200.1   205.0   210.2   213.8  224.0           -   10.0   20.5   34.2   4*2
_    #E1ll                      2.3    2.2    2.3    2,3    2.3    2.3    2.2           2       2.3     2.3     -      -      -      -      -
ITILE =16                       4.0    3.8    3.6    3.4    3.2    4.0          4.t    4.3   4C5        4.7     -    0*3    0.7   t.2   1*5
IIIM  NU                        0.6    0.5    0.5    0.4        0.3    0.6      0.6     0.6    0.6      06      -    O.t   0.2    0.2    0.3
K F,ER on                       3.6    3.3    3.6       3       3.8    3.8    4.0    4.4        48      5.0     -    0.3   0.6    1.0   1.3
PazE EE1S                       2*9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2.9    2*9           2*9     2.9    2.9      -      -      -      -      -
VWAT ED                        1566   154.0   1514   150.1  14.3  156         159.2   161.3   1?.0   172.3      -    5.2   10A4   1.O   23.5
as F"MEt 3ED                   14.4   14,4   14.4   14.4    14.4   14.4    14.    15*.6    13    16.8           -    0.5    1.2    1.9    2.4
m=19 SEDIUS                  1,120#0 102.0 1.O 140 1,036.0 O t1,0.  1,1.0s  1t1.O t1,1ho  t1232.0 1260.0        -   56.0  112.0  t96.0  232*0
st-Tow  1m%*t                  2,928.2 284.  29796*6 2,729.0 2443.9 2,9.2 2621.4 Ine07#2 3,254.2 3,37,2           -  152.8  310.7  521.2  433.3
inud LAW
11       US                       -       -       -       -       -       -       -    47 .5   MA1   3025       -      -   47.5  M1      302.5
US-Tot       n                    2M933.2 2U864.6 2,796.6 2,729.0 2442.9 2,92.2 3SPZI4 3b154,7 3M4M.  3.449.7        -  12*.   358.1  716.8   MA
CMS FUL I     FIIICIII              21498.3 21,257.6 20551.0 19,355.5 19,225.9 21,398.3 22,840.1 23,501.7 249320.7 2500.7  - 19312.S 2,9%0.7 463.2 S.#.9
Uwern 30, 1967 15:33



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Table 4
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
(in Rupees)
Financial        Economic Prices
Unit    Prices       88/89   94/95   99/00
Outputs
Paddy                                     kg        2.45        2.10    2.58    2.66
Wheat                                     kg        2.00        2.12    2.46    2.57
Sorghum                                   kg        1.75        0.99    1.51    1.57
Maize                                     kg        1.61        0.96    1.49    1.57
Cotton (lint)                             kg       13.56       18.52   23.82   23.75
Sugarcane                                 kg        0.29       0.21    0.30    0.31
Oilseeds                                  kg        2.54        2.29    2.29    2.29
Pulses                                    kg        3.17        2.85    2.85    2.85
Tobacco                                   kg        6.70        6.03    6.03    6.03
Vegetables (tomatoes, onions)             kg        1.11        1.00    1.00    1.00
Fruits (mangoes, apples, melons)          kg        4.80        4.32    4.32    4.32
Fodder                                    kg        0.13        0.12    0.12    0.12
Inputs
Seeds
- Paddy                                   kg        2.20        3.73    3.73    3.73
- Wheat                                   kg        2.90        3.63    3.63    3.63
- Sorghum                                 kg        2.30        2.15    2.15    2.15
- Maize                                   kg        2.90        2.12    2.12    2.12
- Cotton                                  kg        3.60       10.96   10.96   10.96
- Oilseeds                                kg        4.60       4.14    4.14    4.14
- Pulses                                  kg        5.70        5.13    5.13    5.13
- Tobacco                                 kg      300.00     270.00  270.00  270.00
- Vegetables                              kg        6.00        5.40    5.40    5.40
- Melon                                   kg        6.00        5.40    5.40    5.40
- Kharif Fodder                           kg        2.50        2.25    2.25    2.25
- Rabi Fodder                             kg       40.00      36.00   36.00   36.00
Sugarcane Cuttings                        kg        0.20       0.43    0.43    0.43
Seedlings (mango, apple)                  No.      14.00       12.60   12.60   12.60
Fertilizer
- Nitrogen                                kg        5.80       8.20   10.20   10.69
- Phosphate                               kg        4.30       6.91    8.61    8.92
- Potash                                  kg        1.80       4.00    4.77    5.11
Pesticides                             Appl./ha  802.50      722.25  722.25  722.25
Bullock                                Pair-Day   23.75       21.38   21.38   21.38
Labor                                  Man-Day    28.75       25.88   25.88   25.88
Note: Prices are averages of the Provincial prices used in the calculations.
Economic prices of internationally traded commodities are based on
World Bank commodity price forecasts (September 1987).
November 10, 1987    14:54



- 71 -
PAKISTAN                                                   ANNEX  5
-                                                          Table 5
SEWOIID IR ATIQ N   STENSM RWILITATI0N PRJT
Eeomic ktitts -W Costs
(In Nillii b)
199    190    191    12    1993    19            195    1M9       1997    1       19"9 2000-2008
Pun jab
Incuntal lstits                     -   22446  164836  476485  953177 145426 1952058 2252576 M2126  24691 250393   250632
lnvotunt Costs                 43       3671  34752  2719  248275             -       -       -       -        -       -         -
Incantal Poductimn Casts            -   286  121377  29569    74   813447 1050170 1241677  13717   1310 143245   1
Not lncrntul    tits          -55304 -39 2 -3041  -9733  147256 64197   901    101699105W5 104741 105                      104576
Internl bte ot Return a 321
Sind
Inre ntal Imntits                   -    94    5S01  150840  319213    744   8            09712   6ag  91265  912373    912166
Investent Costs                21529  21453  192556  130955  107400                   -       -       -        -       -         -
incrmntal Poduion Costs              -    743   2133   719  136739  1"751  2M6062  306023  3 42  362                        36094
Net Inemrtl  enotlts          -2152  -21290-158   -50734   7464  2973  424126   01689  541427 5 63  55207    551562
N-P
Incrmental thtits                   -    3462   17607   462   91785  12963   1669  19360  211632  2196    220391    220
investmnt Csts                  6699   54549   51442   39        36947                                                 -         -
Inmental Prduction Costs            -    2017    O50   2100   3m956   56406   72235   6037   9860   963    8455              96736
et Incm ntal         tlts      -669  -53    -4284  -138 I       9    2            94234  10602m   1177    1701  1217    122210
Internl Rat  t Return a 281
Dluchslan
Incrntal m         its              -    1600    6202   20863   40252   56n     72402   g84         9255   94al8   9606      96494
Invetmnt Costs                  52745   47699   43976   U174   31451                              -        -
Inernemtl Production Cost%          -      434    162     4464    8502   12102   1545    18195   20070   2072   21016        21059
et Incrementlacl  netlts       -545  46        -37601  -1974       300   44676   56946   64293   72525                 2     754
Internal  ate oat Rm r    2
Total ProJct
Incrmntal  enefits                  -   36953  24554 69470140           273    9 231363341636002327  33 375   3m239
Investment Costs               79307  704M     635525  484812  424272         -       -       -       -        -       -         -
Incrmntal Production Csts           -        39030  15   M      74411041907 13941 16529331627831911987 1917282   12436
Nkt Incremntal krtits         -79030 -7049 -549865 -181920  2413 105071 147M95 16464 1712  1615751 19157m3   1611503
InMml Rd oat Relurn a 311
Dcete 3. 197  13:18



-72-
PLATE I
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHNAILITATION PROJECT
WATER BALANCE (PRESENT)
INDUS PLAINS AND PESHAWAR VALE
RIVER INPUT
152 millon acr
f"t    ~Eveporion
101 1___Cna____
61
EFFECTIVE '13    65
s         ~~~PRECIP               Eepoweion
*,saporeon 1   l
15T~~RW so-                                           NE CRO USE               33
I Perecmn    a43                          
43~~~~4
muniepal1           Evdon t                                       w
2 Or_     i                                RUDWATER           
SYSTEM OUTFLOW
Source: Perper Planning Divion
Watw and Poner Dwieopmen AuthorIt
World Benk-22428



PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
INWUS IRRIGATION SYSTEM
,7;
.~~~~
kw- K~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nw
WA
X  % ~~~~~~~~~ __ -{ ou                                               i~~
\                -v        L  _
tSE"D             \ i s        \  -d         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od -By_mo
O___a soS)
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t _*Nw_e"o                                              1-
__mm._ Pulp                                                                           _   _aftDwid
vAmwdmdftww Dswsbpaww                                        Amu aw2fl-gam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



CANAL LAND BOUNDARY
ilfi11 r                                CANAL LAND BOUNDARY
CANAL LAND BOUNDARY
| i;rtl    mi|24                                          U)    m               U)i.F;  
m   S                              dl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-   -  - -          ~~~ir~ 
I C I    i                                          q i  V   i    e   g | t
;;n 5       1    t                    Xt
4   0              F4                                                        9"
X                     n i,                                                          a
--L0
ir~~~~K
S  S *   a        b rrr                                                    I
r~~                              II
CAA- LN BONDRY           CAA LAN BONA-CNLLN -SUDR
una~~~~~~~~



-75-
PLATE IV
PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
TYPICAL CROSS SECTION OF DISTRIBtJTARIES AND MINORS
S.&.orW  ,w_, l Z-W.                             Poll BOt;t     W-0   5w DRI
lrr-wr             7-0".w.--                         -
1. NATURAL SURFACE LEVEL ABOVE FULL SUPPLY LEVEL
§            1  1      1    ~~~~~~r-l'C FN:FRIEEOARD       
BOUNDARY          I It FL
s $'-  t'-4                                      Iit,
2 NATURAL SURFACE LML BELOW FULL SULY LML *UT ABOVE ED LEVEL
|   BOUNDARY ROAD        N.S.L.j                                                        T
ir            (-  MI k(3\-W'MIN: EARTHCOVER    S                                       .
I                          S. NTUAL SURFACE LEVEL  LOW BED LEVEL
b. HYDRAULIC GRADIENT                              N.SL. NATIJAAL SURFACE LEVEL
iS.L FULL SUPPLY LEVEL   _
!. SANK WIDTH W'                              SOIL                   H.G.L                H.G.L. HYDRFAULIC GRdiIENT LINE
TYPE       CLASSIFICATION
|C4ANEL-DISCHARGE  W  1pt    AVERAE SOIL SILTY CLAY         CL   1 IN4
OFT-04-OCS  4               ~~~~CLAYEY GRAVELS     o
* 0 CS TO Igo C    b          (MD SOIL  CLAYEY SAND            SC   I IN 5
2D STO 350 CS   26II      GOSIL SILTY GRAVELS               GM   II 
VERY FINE SAND OR SILT
SAD  SOIL  FINE To mEDIUm        ML
SAND POORLY GRADED    SP   I IN 6
SILTY SNAD            SM
Maum: Vtsr &W Powe D.lwsopom A~kthorItv



PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJE:T
Organization Chart
Federal Coordination Cell
MNSTMY OF
WATER AND POWER
CHEF ENGINEERING 1
ADVISER     l
ZIZEZI~~~~
FEDERAL PROJECT
COORDINATOR
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SUPERINTEDING                        SUPERINTENDING
ENGINEER I                          ENGIEER U
.II -
SENIOR                               SENIOR
ENGIEER                              ENGINEER
SUPPORT STAFF                        SUPPORT STAFF
pk1w40562a



SEOC NO        N AGAMSVS     _R OECTM M)A
Ovgm _ Chki - Wg      PCndPOarOp_bnt
ft4'o
l              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
bj3XX+A+SA~~~~~~~~~~~~£~ A WwC£LC4 
r                    .~~~~~1m .             2MpC.        av|w           .5w,,         1hw.1§                                                 s' -
sVxh " I  ozn   acs                     ~~~~~~aa*WDIso  a rins ce.> a nmow        Iuc.Jg5      au_~   a 5                    20
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4m,C    Xl iA.    _                                    Ow           4^71 5IDS_l_D~    40.CDw7.l_Ds 
sWA*.W                    A kCOk &bVOk                53±1.          &Igg.                     &Ww
SC LiW w.                 7                Loc WM  &wOd I7QUM O7                 7 OAC9M       7 W"AC
5mA. S~~~~ 9~~O t mm     azi             *M.31       YA w.      I0 1.50                                                            rO            I.O £b5iMa*b5m,  IN
~~  3~~~  6~~~~D          St lik'.5s               93y.uw        a   o.55,Io'   a1w         9 kupo7dwack.  9h 15,tW      V
1    -     -       L       I MAW ow      t or, Damon,    1. 4apOK Lt m*c62    I4mI L.  tAL 6
nW  Oblldo,    ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    I1M.         16W5m5         I od id       II0y~95      I&5mlWWDW                    7 ft1
I47.6Ok  I&T*7.ua~~~~~~   IS ~~~0k  140160k ~~~~    I4g~~2wo"" 2.hwI
&ODO kh  0  3' "   M          ak$"W*DW     s tourla lk m  3L                     3~~~~I7t~0k1 1350wolmm kom
ALMOW  4 foRkoh CL M  Al P Lb*DW         Apmodi"Dil   ALACMAID,     AL*Aftmop*~~~~~~~~~~~~12 S
11  lo"owa  ok  ftmid"D              &'I-   m     Sla **,q'mosa-



21
.13 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.
'Hf y     WEX       yiw    tM
,b  t          0200T:0  (t    TW   p[t   ES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.4PM0-
13          13         3a                                                          3 3                           1
.  I   l        l    .                        ,  .                                  ...                                 ...wo  -W
*13~~              13                      - ~.3D-Iw                                      --P    as3         MM   -P4 
---t  I                          0.   W-                             '013                                Wm10 '01 
ESEt3   Cg~0   -CaEr    473 wECEtEt E3C
13~~  o    '06'0                         'P3 0        J                n 10 Oa ~  
~~  13   ~~'  060  -~~~~  -.   6.H   0- -'mr.--                                                    
~~I--W Ll II 
I6  I 3  -  3.63                                                    3       1 7  asc*
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" WOM t
06  13  13  30130  13  D 63  13  060  ~   ~ ''  *3$?3       3
caw13  N_S3   NOr_ -  -   66060   -'  -   3.z3;   '" s                          -
*- N.d~13  ~  066  ~3.  -  -    0613  600    60                   __D



PMN
SECOND sVGM a #SWREI e_ONFOC
KWFP.
r  |  l  ,  l  ,  S  |  ,  1  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~ot. P     
p,i            Im                    Im     I *        I       eL
II   I
PAJ    o wf  080e, f  XemoXe  Pz  C       i~T6-  P)tP  gw ca           P         ChO,
stak   sbm,  f*              O@sb m           UP,    h~
~~ ~~~Nm     Pd,*~~~lo  FOKUC  Pb,    P  -  I   8I IO-
Pl                                                     A I  .      H
Al             a .   l m~a  C d       , ,    l'                   1 P is dL  .   l
~~Dy  Dy~~~  ~     Dy ~DyS  cw  w  b                A   I    I
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
VI.W WqWX Pmd                                WM
9ERE XWX tWS XWX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*tSM11W



PAKISTAN
SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization Chart
Irrigation and Power Department
Baluchistan
PROVNCIAL
PROJIECT                     SECRATARY
CO-ORDINATOR
CHIEF                     DEPUTY
ENGINEER                  SECRETARY                                          co
SUPERENTENDING             SUPERENTENDING             SUPERENTENDING             SUPERENTENDG 
ENGINEER                   ENGINEER                   ENGINEER                   ENGINEER
QUETTA CIRCLE               SBI CIRCLE                KALAT CIRCLE               LORLAI CIRCLE
QUETTA                      SIBI                     KHDAR                       LORALAI
I XEN. QUETTA DIVISIN      I  XER' KACCHI DW' DHADAR  I XEN. UTHAL (BLA) DIM.    I XEHX LORALAI DIVISION
2. XEt. P1541 DIVISION     a 2 XEN SamI DIVISION      1.XRMSUGO                  2  E    o  nM
3. XEIL MECHANICAL DIV.    3. XE JHAT PAT  V          3. XEI TUSASTU  DIM.       3. XE. KHB DrIVSION
_________________J 4. XEM KNITHER CANAL DIM.  3  E.TRA  i                 . E&KHUDVSO 
pk/w40662b



IBRD 19iZ 
; j                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A K I S T A N                                                   .,-                    _-
C / \ ~~~~~~~SECOND IRRIGATION SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT 
,   % /  \                                      *   Drci~~~~~~~~    ect Irrigation WwsDps  D- =/t adw d R     Dsjvoi     0    Disroinct HclutodDremsf' 
,.-   \                                  -LTi4olion(e~~~~          ~       ~~~~~mals  _iood E.bok.enhts                  Nohrni.,dCapital                                               .
I S  L AM  I C    R E P.                  .D.-i\                                                                                           Dry lobrs                     *-.      tamtiwal Brnmdrariml 
o°    O F I R A N z                        )-9                     J                                                                                                                                                                      U 5  .R 
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ws                                                                                                                                                                                                          A       r    
t_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-, waal                                                                                                                                                              INQ A\ /n,5
Uf/XPX '4 9 ; 9 JJb +; EPTEbDERl#r .~~~~TJ



