Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1888 PAK
        (Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 9, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1888 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  9,  1988,  between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its  President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement (the  Project),  has  requested  the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the United States  Agency  for International Development
(USAID) intends to make funds available (the USAID Funding) to the
Borrower in an aggregate  principal  amount of ninety-five million
three  hundred  thousand   dollars   ($95,300,000)  to  assist  in
financing the Project on the terms  and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the USAID  Agreement)  to  be  entered into between the
Borrower and USAID;
     (C)  the Netherlands  intends  to  make  funds available (the
Dutch Funding) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of
Page  2
seventeen million dutch  guilders  (Dfl  17,000,000)  to assist in
financing the Project on the  terms and conditions included in the
arrangement (the Dutch Arrangement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Netherlands;
     (D)  the Project  will  be  carried  out  by  the Province of
Punjab (Punjab),  the  Province  of  Sind  (Sind),  the North West
Frontier  Province  (NWFP)   and   the   Province  of  Baluchistan
(Baluchistan) with the Borrower's assistance  and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Punjab, Sind, NWFP
and Baluchistan the proceeds  of  the  Credit  as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and Punjab, Sind, NWFP and Baluchistan;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Punjab" means the Province  of Punjab, a political sub-
division of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (b)  "Sind" means the Province  of Sind, a political subdivi-
sion of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (c)  "NWFP" means the North  West  Frontier Province, a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (d)  "Baluchistan" means the Province of Baluchistan, a poli-
tical subdivision of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
     (e)  "Provinces"  mean  Punjab,  Sind,  NWFP  and Baluchistan
collectively,  and  "Province"  means  each  or  any  one  of  the
Provinces;
     (f)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and the Provinces of  even  date herewith, as the same
may be amended  from  time  to  time,  and  such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (g)  "Rupees"  and  "Rs"   mean   rupees  in  the  Borrower's
currency;
     (h)  "FY"  and  "Fiscal  Year"   mean  the  Borrower's  or  a
Province's fiscal year, as  the  case  may be, covering the period
July 1 through June 30;
     (i)  "O&M cost" means the  operation  and maintenance cost of
the facilities concerned;
     (j)  "SCARP" means a salinity control and reclamation project
of the Borrower;
     (k)  "FCC" means the Federal  Coordination Cell in the office
of the Chief  Engineering  Adviser  in  the Borrower's Ministry of
Page  3
Water and Power; and
     (l)  "PID" means any of the Provincial Irrigation Departments
of the Provinces.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifty-eight million  two  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 58,200,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of  the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for  expenditures  made  (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  February 1 and August 1
commencing August  1,  1998  and  ending  February  1,  2023. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on February
1, 2008 shall  be  one  and  one-fourth  percent  (1-1/4%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
Page  4
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The  Chairman,  Planning and Development Board,
Punjab, the Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Planning and
Development  Department,  Sind,  the  Additional  Chief Secretary,
Planning and  Development  Department,  NWFP,  and  the Additional
Chief Secretary, Planning  and Development Department, Baluchistan
are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes
of taking any action required  or  permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions, in respect  of  the  parts  of the Project for
which they are respectively responsible.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Provinces to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Provinces therein set forth, shall take  and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or  appropriate to enable the Provinces
to perform such obligations, and  shall  not  take or permit to be
taken any  action  which  would  prevent  or  interfere  with such
performance.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall,  and shall cause the
Provinces  to,  carry  out  the  Project  in  accordance  with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit available to the  Provinces  under procedures and terms and
conditions which shall  be  mutually  satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) shall be
carried out by  the  Provinces  pursuant  to  Section  2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graphs (a) and  (b)  (i)  of  this Section for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently  applied, by inde-
               pendent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by  March  31,   1989,   carry   out  and  complete,  in
          association  with  the  Provinces,  and  under  terms of
          reference  satisfactory  to   the   Bank,   a  study  on
          improvement of water and drainage charges assessment and
          collection procedures;
     (b)  by May 31, 1989,  in  consultation with the Bank, review
          the findings of such study and prepare an implementation
          plan therefor; and
     (c)  cause the Provinces  to  adopt  such implementation plan
          and  to  improve   their   water  and  drainage  charges
          assessment  and  collection   procedures  in  accordance
          therewith.
     Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause Punjab and Sind to
Page  6
achieve, in accordance with a phased timetable satisfactory to the
Association, full  recovery  of  the  O&M  costs  of their surface
irrigation and subsurface saline drainage facilities through water
and/or drainage charges.
     (b)  To that end, if by  July  1, 1992, Punjab and Sind shall
have been unable to  achieve  full  O&M  cost recovery despite the
improvements in their  water  and  drainage charges assessment and
collection  procedures  made  pursuant  to  Section  4.02  of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Punjab and Sind:
          (i)   if the shortfall is expected  to be less than 25%,
                to adjust their  water  and/or drainage charges so
                as to make up  the  shortfall and achieve full O&M
                cost recovery by July 1, 1993;
         (ii)   if the shortfall is expected to be 25% or more but
                less  than  40%,  to  adjust  their  water  and/or
                drainage  charges,   through   periodic  increases
                satisfactory to the Association,  so as to make up
                the shortfall and  achieve  full O&M cost recovery
                by July 1, 1995; and
        (iii)   if the shortfall is expected to be 40% or more, to
                adjust  their   water   and/or  drainage  charges,
                through  periodic  increases  satisfactory  to the
                Association, so as  to  make  up the shortfall and
                achieve full O&M cost recovery by July 1, 1997.
     (c)  The Borrower shall thereafter  cause  Punjab and Sind to
maintain such full O&M cost recovery and, to that end, to continue
to  adjust  their  respective  water  and/or  drainage  charges as
necessary.
     (d)  The  Borrower  shall  cause   NWFP  and  Baluchistan  to
automatically  adjust  their   respective  water  and/or  drainage
charges  to  the  levels,  if  any,  to  which  Punjab  and  Sind,
respectively, shall  have  adjusted  their  water  and/or drainage
charges under paragraphs (b)  and  (c)  of this Section; provided,
however, that in no  case  shall  such adjustments result in water
and/or drainage charges at levels below those assessed in FY88.
     (e)  The provisions of paragraphs  (a),  (b),  (c) and (d) of
this Section shall be  modified  in  their  application to any new
subsurface saline  drainage  facilities  to  be  completed  in the
future, to the extent  that  with  respect  to such facilities the
Provinces shall begin  O&M  cost  recovery  only  at  the end of a
three-year development period  commencing  from  the completion of
such facilities.
     (f)  The provisions of paragraphs  (a),  (b)  and (c) of this
Section  shall  not  apply   to  the  subsurface  saline  drainage
facilities constructed  under  the  Association-financed Left Bank
Outfall Drain-Phase I Project  (Credit No. 1532-PAK), with respect
to which Sind shall achieve and maintain full O&M cost recovery in
accordance with the arrangements  agreed  for this purpose between
the Association and Sind under that Project.
     Section 4.04. (a) The  Borrower  shall cause the Provinces to
phase out all public  tubewells  in fresh groundwater areas (other
than those in  the  South  Rohri  and  Ghotki  areas  in Sind), in
accordance with a  program  mutually  satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
     (b)  To that end, the Borrower shall cause:
          (i)  the  Provinces   not   to   undertake   any  future
               investments in  new  or  replacement  tubewells for
               public operation in  such  fresh groundwater areas;
               and
         (ii)  Punjab  and  Sind   to  privatize  existing  public
Page  7
               tubewells  in  such   fresh  groundwater  areas  as
               follows:
               (A)   under a  second  SCARP  transition project in
                     the SCARP I area  in  Punjab, to be completed
                     by June 30, 1994;
               (B)   under a pilot SCARP transition project in the
                     North Rohri area in  Sind, to be completed by
                     June 30, 1994; and
               (C)   under other SCARP transition projects both in
                     Punjab and Sind, to  be  initiated by July 1,
                     1994, and completed by June 30, 1998.
     (c)  The Borrower  shall  ensure  that  Punjab  and Sind will
complete and furnish to  the Association the necessary feasibility
studies:
          (i)  for the SCARP  transition  projects  referred to in
               paragraphs (b) (ii) (A)  and  (b)  (ii) (B) of this
               Section, by June 30, 1989; and
         (ii)  for the other SCARP transition projects referred to
               in paragraph (b) (ii) (C) of this Section, by March
               31, 1993.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Provinces shall have failed  to perform any of their
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall  have  arisen  which  shall  make  it  improbable  that  the
Provinces will be  able  to  perform  their  obligations under the
Project Agreement.
   (c)    (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of any  grant  or loan (including the
                    USAID Funding and  the  Dutch Funding) made to
                    the Borrower for the  financing of the Project
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (A) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
Page  8
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any  event  specified  in   paragraph  (c)  (i)  (B)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
has approved the PC-1 document with respect to the Project;
     (b)  the supervisory consultants  required  under Part E.2 of
the Project have been appointed;
     (c)  proposals  for   consultants'   services  for  preparing
feasibility studies for the  SCARP transition projects referred to
in paragraphs (b) (ii) (A)  and  (b)  (ii)  (B) of Section 4.04 of
this Agreement have been invited; and
     (d)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
USAID  Agreement  and  the   Dutch  Arrangement,  other  than  the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely,  that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified  by the Provinces, and is legally
binding upon the Provinces in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary,  or  Section  Officer  in  that  Division of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ECONOMIC                          ECDIV-05-634
               Islamabad
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
Page  9
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ H. E. Kûpp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                49,000,000       80%
(2)  Consultants'                4,000,000       90%
     services
(3)  Monitoring and              1,500,000       90%
     evaluation
(4)  Unallocated                 3,700,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 58,200,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  10
     The objectives of the  Project  are to: (a) increase agricul-
tural production  through  the  provision  of  more reliable water
supply and improved surface drainage; (b) provide a more equitable
system of water supply  through  increase  of deliveries to water-
deficient commanded areas;  and  (c)  strengthen the operation and
maintenance (O  &  M)  capabilities  of  the Provincial Irrigation
Departments (PIDs).
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Systems
     Rehabilitation of selected  systems  or subsystems of canals,
surface  drains  and  related   structures,  including  lining  of
channels as appropriate,  silt  removal  and  redesign of selected
channels and outlets, both within and outside of the Indus system.
Part B:   Upgrading of PID Facilities
1.   Provision  of  construction,   surveying,  office  (including
computers),  and  telecommunication  equipment  and  related spare
parts.
2.   Improvement of workshops  and warehouse facilities, including
major improvements  at  Lahore  and  Bhalwal  (in  Punjab)  and at
Jamshoro (in Sind).
3.   Rehabilitation  and   expansion   of   office  buildings  and
construction of staff housing.
Part C:   International Irrigation Management Institute Facilities
     Construction of branch facilities for the International Irri-
gation Management Institute (Pakistan Branch) at Lahore.
Part D:   Project Management
     Provision of incremental  staff  to  assist  (i) FCC and (ii)
PIDs in carrying out and supervising the Project.
Part E:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of consultants'  services  to  assist:  (a) PIDs in
strengthening their design, construction and inspection, and O & M
capabilities;  and  (b)   FCC   in  developing,  implementing  and
monitoring an  organizational  development  and management program
for PIDs.
2.   Provision of consultants' services to  assist (a) FCC and (b)
PIDs in carrying out the Project.
3.   Provision of local institutional  services to assist in moni-
toring and evaluating the Project.
4.   Provision of consultants' services to assist FCC in preparing
future projects.
5.   Provision of foreign study  tours, and in-country and on-the-
job training for FCC and PID staff.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  11
Section I:   Procurement of Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.   Except as provided in paragraph  2  below, civil works may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   Civil works,  involving  substantial  quantities of earthwork
with long leads, underwater  excavation, or repair and replacement
of hydraulic structures, may be carried out by force account.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $200,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (b)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
3.   For the purposes of  these  provisions, the term "Guidelines"
means the "Guidelines  for  Procurement  under  IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower and the Provinces in carrying
out the  Project,  the  Borrower  and  the  Provinces shall employ
consultants  whose  qualifications,   experience   and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
A.   Implementation Arrangements
1.   Responsibility for coordinating  Project  activities shall be
assigned:
     (a)  for the Project overall, to FCC; and
     (b)  within  each  PID,  to  a  Project  Director  or Project
Coordinator.
2.   Specific responsibility  for  implementation  of  the Project
shall be assigned as follows:
     (a)  for Parts C, D (i) and E of the Project, to FCC; and
Page  12
     (b)  for Parts A, B and D (ii) of the Project, to PIDs.
B.   Other Matters
3.   Annual Work Plans.  FCC  and  PIDs  shall,  in respect of the
parts of the Project  for  which  they are responsible, furnish to
the Association an Annual  Work  Plan,  including  an Annual O & M
Work Program, not later than  September  30  of the Fiscal Year to
which such Plan relates.
4.   Selection Criteria and Designs.  (a)  In selecting the canals
to be rehabilitated under  Part  A  of  the Project, the Provinces
shall apply criteria satisfactory to the Association.
     (b)  In carrying out the rehabilitation works under Part A of
the   Project,   the   Provinces   shall   follow   specifications
satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Evaluation   Institutions.   FCC   shall,   not   later  than
September 30,  1988,  appoint  suitable  local institutions, under
terms of reference and other  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, to  carry  out  monitoring  and evaluation of the
Project in the Provinces.
6.   Progress Reports. FCC shall,  within  sixty (60) days of each
reporting period, submit to the Association consolidated quarterly
and annual progress reports on  the Project, prepared on the basis
of quarterly and annual progress reports received from PIDs.
7.   Other Funded Works and  Equipment.  Works and equipment to be
procured for the purposes of  the  Project and to be financed from
the USAID Funding or the  Dutch Funding shall comply with specifi-
cations satisfactory to the Association.
8.   Other Funded Consultants. Consultants  to be employed for the
purposes of the Project and to  be financed from the USAID Funding
or the Dutch Funding shall  have qualifications and experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
