Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1888 PAK
        (Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                        PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                                and
                         PROVINCE OF SIND
                                and
                   NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
                                and
                      PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
                        Dated June 9, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1888 PAK
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   June   9,   1988,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)  and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB,
PROVINCE OF SIND,  NORTH  WEST  FRONTIER  PROVINCE and PROVINCE OF
BALUCHISTAN acting by their respective Governors (the Provinces).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic  Republic  of Pakistan (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association  has agreed to make available
to the Borrower  an  amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to
fifty-eight million two  hundred  thousand  Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 58,200,000), on the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that the
Provinces  agree  to   undertake   such   obligations  toward  the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  the  proceeds  of  the  credit  provided  for  under the
Development  Credit  Agreement  will  be  made  available  to  the
Provinces on terms  and  conditions  mutually  satisfactory to the
Page  2
Borrower and the Association; and
     WHEREAS the Provinces, in  consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
have agreed to undertake the  obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) The  Provinces  declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
the Project with due  diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering and irri-
gation practices, and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the Association and the Provinces
shall otherwise agree, the  Provinces  shall carry out the Project
in  accordance  with  the  Implementation  Program  set  forth  in
Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Provinces  shall  carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect  of the Project
Agreement and the parts of the  Project for which they are respec-
tively responsible.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Provinces  shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of the Project,  the performance of their obligations
under this Agreement, and  other  matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
     (b)  The Provinces shall  promptly  inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or  threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  the Provinces of their obligations
under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Financial and other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  The  Provinces  shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices their operations and  financial  condition in respect of
the Project.
Page  3
     (b)  The Provinces shall:
          (i)  have such records and accounts for each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year the report of such audit
               by said auditors, of such  scope and in such detail
               as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
               and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and accounts as well as the
               audit thereof, as  the  Association shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. The Provinces shall:
     (a)  with  respect   to   existing   surface  irrigation  and
subsurface saline drainage facilities,  at  all times maintain the
FY88 levels of O & M funding in real terms; and
     (b)  with respect to  new  surface  irrigation and subsurface
saline  drainage  facilities   becoming   operational  during  the
implementation of the Project, provide and thereafter maintain O &
M funding at appropriate levels.
     Section 3.03. The Provinces shall:
     (a)  assist the Borrower in carrying  out, by March 31, 1989,
a study on improvement  of  water  and drainage charges assessment
and collection procedures;
     (b)  assist the Borrower  in  reviewing  the findings of such
study and in preparing an implementation plan therefor, by May 31,
1989; and
     (c)  adopt such implementation  plan  and improve their water
and  drainage  charges  assessment  and  collection  procedures in
accordance therewith.
     Section 3.04. Punjab  and  Sind  shall,  in accordance with a
phased timetable  satisfactory  to  the  Association, achieve full
recovery  of  the  O&M  costs  of  their  surface  irrigation  and
subsurface  saline  drainage   facilities   through  water  and/or
drainage charges.
     (b)  To that end, if by  July  1, 1992, Punjab and Sind shall
have been unable to  achieve  full  O&M  cost recovery despite the
improvements in their  water  and  drainage charges assessment and
collection  procedures  made  pursuant  to  Section  3.03  of this
Agreement, Punjab and Sind shall:
          (i)   if the shortfall is expected  to be less than 25%,
                adjust their water  and/or  drainage charges so as
                to make up the shortfall and achieve full O&M cost
                recovery by July 1, 1993;
         (ii)   if the shortfall is expected to be 25% or more but
                less than 40%, adjust  their water and/or drainage
                charges, through  periodic  increases satisfactory
                to the Association, so as to make up the shortfall
                and achieve  full  O&M  cost  recovery  by July 1,
                1995; and
        (iii)   if the shortfall is expected to be 40% or more, to
                adjust  their   water   and/or  drainage  charges,
                through  periodic  increases  satisfactory  to the
                Association, so as  to  make  up the shortfall and
Page  4
                achieve full O&M cost recovery by July 1, 1997.
     (c)  Punjab and Sind shall  therafter  maintain such full O&M
cost  recovery  and,  to  that   end,  continue  to  adjust  their
respective water and/or drainage charges as necessary.
     (d)  NWFP and  Baluchistan  shall  automatically adjust their
respective water and/or drainage charges to the levels, if any, to
which Punjab and  Sind,  respectively,  shall  have adjusted their
water and/or drainage charges under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section, provided; however, that in no case shall such adjustments
result in water  and/or  drainage  charges  at  levels below those
assessed in FY88.
     (e)  The provisions of paragraphs  (a),  (b),  (c) and (d) of
this Section shall be  modified  in  their  application to any new
subsurface saline  drainage  facilities  to  be  completed  in the
future to the extent  that,  with  respect to such facilities, the
Provinces shall begin  O&M  cost  recovery  only  at  the end of a
three-year development period  commencing  from  the completion of
such facilities.
     (f)  The provisions of paragraphs  (a),  (b)  and (c) of this
Section  shall  not  apply   to  the  subsurface  saline  drainage
facilities constructed  under  the  Association-financed Left Bank
Outfall Drain-Phase I Project  (Credit No. 1532-PAK), with respect
to which Sind shall achieve and maintain full O&M cost recovery in
accordance with the arrangements  agreed  for this purpose between
the Association and Sind under that Project.
     Section 3.05. (a) The  Provinces  shall  phase out all public
tubewells in fresh  groundwater  areas  (other  than  those in the
South Rohri  and  Ghotki  areas  in  Sind),  in  accordance with a
program mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
     (b)  To that end:
          (i)  the  Provinces  shall   not  undertake  any  future
               investments in  new  or  replacement  tubewells for
               public operation in  such  fresh groundwater areas;
               and
         (ii)  Punjab and  Sind  shall  privatize  existing public
               tubewells  in  such   fresh  groundwater  areas  as
               follows:
               (A)  under a second SCARP transition project in the
                    SCARP I area  in  Punjab,  to  be completed by
                    June 30, 1994;
               (B)  under a pilot SCARP  transition project in the
                    North Rohri area in  Sind,  to be completed by
                    June 30, 1994; and
               (C)  under other SCARP  transition projects both in
                    Punjab and Sind,  to  be  initiated by July 1,
                    1994, and completed by June 30, 1998.
     (c) Punjab  and  Sind  shall  complete  and  furnish  to  the
Association the necessary feasibility studies:
          (i)  for the SCARP  transition  projects  referred to in
               paragraphs (b) (ii) (A)  and  (b)  (ii) (B) of this
               Section, by June 30, 1989; and
         (ii)  for the other SCARP transition projects referred to
               in paragraph (b) (ii) (C) of this Section, by March
               31, 1993.
     Section 3.06. The  provisions  of  Section 3.03, Section 3.04
and Section 3.05 of this  Agreement shall, to the extent relevant,
constitute an integral part  of,  and  supercede any provisions to
Page  5
the contrary in, the Project Agreements for the following projects
financed by the Association:
          (a)  the Khairpur  Tile  Drainage  and Irrigated Farming
               Development Project (Credit No. 648-PAK);
          (b)  the  Salinity  Control  and  Reclamation  SCARP  VI
               Project (Credit No. 754 PAK);
          (c)  the Salinity Control  and  Reclamation SCARP Mardan
               Project (Credit No. 877 PAK);
          (d)  the  Irrigation   Systems   Rehabilitation  Project
               (Credit No. 1239 PAK);
          (e)  the Fourth Drainage Project (Credit No. 1375 PAK);
          (f)  the Command  Water  Management  Project (Credit No.
               1487 PAK); and
          (g)  the Left Bank Outfall Drain-Phase I Project (Credit
               No. 1532 PAK).
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of the Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section,  the  Association  shall promptly notify the
Provinces of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  6
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT),
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Punjab:
          Planning and Development Board
          Government of Punjab
          Lahore, Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DEVELOPMENT                    82-04-4868
                Lahore, Pakistan               Punjab Secretariat
                                               Lahore, Pakistan
     For Sind:
          Planning and Development Department
          Government of Sind
          Karachi, Pakistan
          Cable address:
                DEVELOPMENT SIND
         Karachi, Pakistan
     For NWFP:
          Planning and Development Department
          Government of North West Frontier Province
          Peshawar, Pakistan
          Cable address:
                DEVELOPMENT
                Peshawar, Pakistan
     For Baluchistan:
          Planning and Development Department
          Government of Baluchistan
          Quetta, Pakistan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                DEVELOPMENT                   7875 BLNSE PK
                Quetta, Pakistan
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of any Province,  or by any Province on behalf
of the Borrower  under  the  Development  Credit Agreement, may be
taken or executed by the  Chairman, Planning and Development Board
(in the case  of  Punjab)  or  by  the Additional Chief Secretary,
Planning and Development Department (in  the case of Sind, NWFP or
Baluchistan) or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing, and  he  shall  furnish  to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
Page  7
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ H. E. Kûpp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    PROVINCE OF SIND
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                    NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
                              - 11 -
                    PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
                    By /s/ C. M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
