Page  1
                                                         October 24, 1990
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
      Re:   Credit No. 1888 PAK
            (Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project)
            Amendments
Dear Sir:
      We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the International Development
Association (the Association), dated June 9, 1988, as amended, and the
Project Agreement among the Association and the Province of Punjab, the
Province of Sind, the North West Frontier Province and the Province of
Baluchistan (the Provinces), of even date therewith, for the above-
captioned Project.  We also refer to your Division's letters dated July
10, July 31 and September 18, 1990, requesting that provision be made for
the establishment of Special Accounts, one each for the Borrower's
Federal Coordination Cell (FCC) and the Provinces, for the purposes of
the Project.
      We are pleased to advise you that, after due consideration, the
Association has acceded to your request.  Accordingly, the Development
Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement are hereby amended as follows:
A.    Development Credit Agreement
1 .   In Section 1.02, the word "and" appearing at the end of item (k) is
deleted, the "." appearing at the item (1) is changed to ";" and the
following new items are added:
      "(m)  "Special Accounts" mean collectively the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and more fully defined in
paragraphs (n) through (r) of this Section, and "Special Account" means
each and any such account;
      (n)   "FCC Special Account" means the Special Account which FCC
shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (o)   "Punjab Special Account" means the Special Account which
Punjab shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
      (p)   "Sind Special Account" means the Special Account which Sind
shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement
and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement;
      (q)   "NWFP Special Account" means the Special Account which NWFP
shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement
and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement; and
      (r)    "Baluchistan Special Account" means the Special Account
which Baluchistan shall open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement."
2.    In Section 2.02, the existing paragraph is re-lettered as "(a)" and
a new paragraph (b) is added to read as follows:
      "(b) The Borrower shall cause FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP and
Baluchistan, for the purposes of their respective parts of the Project,
to open and maintain in dollars special deposit accounts in the National
Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
Page  2
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
3.    In Schedule 3, Part B.1, paragraphs (a) and (b) are amended to read
as follows:
      "(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix I
to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of a Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the
other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished  pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule
5 to the Development Credit Agreement."
4.    A new Schedule 5 (Special Accounts) to the Development Credit
Agreement is added to read as set forth in the Attachment to this letter.
B.    Project Agreement
      In Section 2.01, a new paragraph (c) is added to read as follows:
      "(c) Punjab, Sind, NWFP and Baluchistan shall, for the purposes of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars special accounts in the
National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts,
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the
Development Credit Agreement."
      Please indicate your agreement to the foregoing amendments by
signing and dating the attached copy of this letter and by returning said
copy to us.
                      Very truly yours,
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Manuel Penalver
                       Acting Director
                    Country Department I
            Europe, Middle East and North Africa
CONFIRMED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
PROVINCE OF SIND
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
PROVINCE OF BALUCHISTAN
By    /s/ M. Hamid Hasan
      Authorized Representative
Date: January 31, 1991
                                                               Attachment
Page  3
                                "SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible categories" means the categories set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of FCC, an
amount equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the FCC Special Account; in respect of Punjab an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Punjab Special Account; in respect of Sind an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Sind Special Account; in respect of NWFP an amount
equivalent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the NWFP Special Account; in respect of Baluchistan an
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Baluchistan Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the relevant
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, FCC, Punjab,
Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall furnish to the
Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.    On the basis
of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of FCC,
Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall have
requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, FCC, Punjab, Sind,
            NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall furnish to the
            Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at
            such intervals as the Association shall specify.
      (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, FCC, Punjab,
            Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall furnish
            to the Association the documents and other evidence required
            pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
            payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On
            the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on
            behalf of FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case
            may be, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
            Special Account such amount as FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or
            Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall have requested and as
            shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to
            have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
            expenditures.,
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as
Page  4
the case may be, out of a Special Account, FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or
Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special
Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or
Baluchistan, as the case may be, directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or
      (b)   once the total withdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible categories for the parts of the Project for which FCC,
Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be, is responsible
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to such parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible categories for
such parts of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the
case may be.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, FCC,
Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall promptly
upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be
.made until FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be,
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or
Baluchistan, as the case may be, shall promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   FCC, Punjab, Sind, NWFP or Baluchistan, as the case may be,
may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
