Report No. 1420b-NEP
Nepal: Appraisal of the Second   FILE   OgPY
Wate:r Supply and Sewerage Project
April 11, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Energy and Water Supply Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Docurniet of the World Bank
Thts document has a restrtcted distnbution and may be used by reciptents
only in the pertormance of their offt cal duties Its contents may not
otherwise be dtsclosed without World Bank authorizatiorn



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1, 1977)
Currency Unit                    =      Nepalese Rupee (NRe)
NRe 1.00                          =     100 Paisa
US$ 1.00                          =     NRs 12.50
,US$ 1 million                           N NRs 12.5 million
NRe 1.00                          =     US$0.08
NRs I million                     =     US$80,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1         =    Liter (1 liter = 0.26 US gallons)
1Tcd      =    Liter per capita per day
m3        =    Cubic meter or 1,000 liters (1,000 liters = 264 US gallons)
m /day         Cubic meter per day
1/sec     =    Liter per second (0.035 cubic feet per second)
mm             Millimeter (0.03937 inch)
m              Meter (3.28 feet)
km             Kilometer (0.62 mile)
ha        =    Hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
HMG       =    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
MWP       =    Ministry of Water and Power, Nepal
ODM       =    United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Development
UNDP      =    United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF    =    United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
WHO            World Health Organization
WSSB      =    Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Nepal
WSSD      =    Water Supply and Sewerage Department of the Ministry of
Water and Power, Nepal
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 to July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMAARY AND CONCLUSIONS             .  . . . . ..... . . . .  . . . . . .. .  -     i-iii
-.    INTRODUCTION . ....... C                   ............................         1
Ii.   THE SECTOR  ,..                   ................................               2
A.    Present Situation  ... ..*..................               .....*         2
B.   Sector Development  .. ..............................                      3
C.   Sector Organization .....................                                  4
III.   THE PROJECT ........ ....                   ... ..............                    6
A.   Description of the Project .             .......................           6
B.    Cost Estimates              ....................................          8
C.    Project Finance  ...........  ....................... .                  10
D.   Procurement  ......           .................................           10
E.    Disbursements  .....................................                     11
F.   Design, Construction and Supervision of
Construction  ....................................                    11
G.    Land Acquisition and Temporary Access ..............                    12
H.    Impact of the Project on the Urban Poor ....... ....                     12
I.    Environmental Impact .....            .........................          12
IV.    JUSTIFICATION .......           ...................................            12
V.    THE BORROWER AND BENEFICIARY   ...........................                     15
A.    The Borrower              ......................................         15
B.    The Beneficiary  ...................................                     15
C.    Organization and Management  ....             ...................        16
D.    Management and Accounting Systems  ..............            ...         16
E.    Staff            .............................................           16
F.    Training              ..........................................         17
G. Audit                          ...    17
H.    Project Risks  .......        ....................                       17
This report was prepared by Messrs. L.V. Smith (Financial Analyst) and
T. Skytta (Sanitary Engineer).
document has a restrictod distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performance
[fteir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI.   FINANCE ................................................         18
A.   General .................................. .  ..     .      18
B.   Past Performance and Present Financial Position
(FY1975 and FY1976) ....      . .......................  18
C.   Financing Plan ..........................I...               19
D.   Present Water Charges .. ..................O. ...           22
E.   Tariff Study ............................ ....              22
F.   Future Water and Sewerage Charges  ....... .........        23
G.   Future Finances .............................. ......       24
H. Performance Monitoring                 ...    26
I.   Insurance ..............   696
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . ................        26
ANNEXES
1. Description of the Project
2. Project Cost Estimates
3. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4. Construction Schedule
5. Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities
6. Population, Water Demand and Production Projections
7. Organization Chart of the Water Supply and Sewerage Board
8. Income Statements
9. Flow of Funds Statements
10. Balance Sheets
11   Assumptions for Financial Projections
12. Schedule of Present Water Charges
MAPS
IBRD -  12629  NEPAL:  Existing and Planned Water Supplies
IBRD -  12672  KATHMANDU VALLEY:  Existing and Planned Water Supplies
IBRD -  12677  KATHMANDU AND LALITPUR:  Existlng and Planned Distribution System.
IBRD -  12678  KATHMANDU AND LALITPUR:  Existing and Planned Sewerage System
IBRD -  12679  POKHARA AND BODE/THIMI:  Existing and Planned Water Supplies
IBRD -  12680  BIRATNAGAR AND BIRGANJ:  Existing and Planned Water Supplies



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a second project for improving
and exlending water supply and sewerage facilities in Nepal.  The first Proj-
ect 1/ provides for expansion and improvements to water supply systems for
urban and fringe rural areas in the Kathmandu Valley (including Kathmandu
the capital) and Pokhara, a major regional center. A sewerage system for
Kathmandu and adjacent Lalitpur is also provided.  An essential part of the
first 'roject is the establishing of the Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(WSSB), the start of its operations and the training of its staff under tech-
nical assistance provided by the United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Develop-
ment (ODM). At the time of appraisal of the first Project the plans for two
other provincial towns, Biratnagar and Birganj, were reviewed but, due to
financial constraints, were excluded from the Project. Now, His Majesty's
Government of Nepal (HMG) has requested a second credit to finance additional
works to make fuller use of the facilities being constructed under the first
Project and also those works excluded from the first Project. This second
project includes construction of reservoirs and secondary distribution mains
in Kat'amandu Valley and Pokhara; expansioni and improvement of water supply
facilities in Biratnagar and Birganj; extensions to sewage collection systems
in Kathmandu and Lalitpur; studies to prepare future schemes for six other
towns in Nepal; a tariff study and traininig of staff. The estimated cost of
the project is US$11.0 million equivalent (excluding duties and taxes of
US$0.3 million equivalent) of which about 50% represents foreign exchange. An
IDA CrEdit of US$8.0 million is proposed to cover about 73% of the project
cost excluding duties and taxes. Additional financing of US$4.0 million is
presently under consideration by the Executive Directors to assist in financ-
ing an anticipated cost overrun of about US$6.0 million on the first Project.
ii.       The project is based on studies for Kathmandu Valley financed by
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and for Pokhara, Biratnagar and
Birganj financed by HMG all carried out by Binnie and Partners, London. These
studies which were completed by 1973 have been reviewed and the cost estimates
have been updated by WSSB for the purpose of project preparation.
iii.      The credit would be made to HMG and onlent to WSSB at 9% for a term
of 25 years including five years grace on payment of principal and a waiver of
inlerest during these five years. WSSB is a semi-autonomous government entity,
set up to carry out the first Project. Although about twelve months behind
schedule, the first Project is now well in progress.
1/   Credit 470-NEP signed on May 8, 1974



- ii -
iv-       The proposed project has a high priority because of inadequate
ice to the growing population in the project area and the health hazard-
volved in the present systems.  The project will continue the rehabiliLa'-:- 
and extension of existing water supply and sewerage systems to provide ( F
safe and uninterrupted piped water supply for the population in Kathmandu wa
ley, Pokhara, Biratnagar and Birganj, and (2) waterborne sewerage systems for
certain areas of Kathmandu and Lalitpur with modern sewage disposal facilities
thereby reducing pollution of the Bagmati River. By 1981 on completion of the
proposed second project the population served with water within the project
area will be 590,000.  This is an increase of about 200,000 over the pop-
ulation that would be served with water on completion of the first Pzro_ecr
1978. Additionally over 85,000 people will be served by sewer connectiors
by 1981. The project will also continue to develop WSSB as a viable entity
capable of taking responsibility for water supply and sewerage through-
out Nepal.
v.        The water supply component of the proposed project includes the
development of tubewells (for Biratnagar and Birganj); a pumping station;
transmission and distribution main extensions and replacements; service ressr-
voirs; improvements and repairs to existing systems together with service
connections and meters.  These facilities will be adequate to meet requi-re.
ments for water supply in the project area up to about 1985. The sewerage
component of the project includes about nine km of sewer extensions for
Kathmandu and Lalitpur.  WSSB staff will continue to be trained in adminis
tration, accounting, engineering, and operations and maintenance; adequate
facilities, equipment and vehicles are included in the project for this >ur-
pose, and ODM technical assistance would be continued.
vi.       Of the estimated total project cost of NRs 141.1 million (USSIIJ
million equivalent), NRs 115.8 million (US$9.3 million equivalent) is f-s
water supply, NRs 18.1 million (US$1.5 million equivalent) is for seweragei
NRs 4.2 million (US$0.3 million equivalent) is for duties and taxes and
NRs 3.0 million (US$0.2 million equivalent) is for tariff and feasibiliLty
studies.  The proposed credit will cover the US$5.6 million equivalent f         g
exchange component of the project cost and US$2.4 million equivalent repfesen-
ing 42% of the local costs.  The remaining US$3.3 million equivalent will be
financed by HMG as an equity contribution to WSSB.
vii.      All contracts will be awarded on the basis of international compe'
titive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines, except for minor civil 1-.--s_
and equipment, totalling about US$500,000 equivalent which will be let ac
ing to HMG procedures.
viii.     HMG has agreed to levy a sewerage charge equal to 50% of water
charges in FY1978 when the sewerage service comes into use and to increase
water charges in FY1979 in order to meet the required rate of return.  ½>-
ther tariff increases will be required in later years.



- iii --
ix.       The return on combined annually revalued water and sewerage net
fixed assets is estimated to vary between 1% and 3% during the project con-
struction period of FY1978 to FY1981, increasing to about 4% in FY1984 and
6% in FY1987. The rate of return on water only in FY1984 is expected to be
about 6% and on sewerage barely positive.
x.        A meaningful internal financial rate of return on the project can-
not be calculated since benefits can only be quantified using incremental
sales to metered consumers, and these at present contribute only about 25%
of total revenues (though the proportion will gradually increase). However,
projected future water charges will be close to or exceed the average incre-
mental. cost of water.
xi.       The project is suitable for a credit of US$8.0 million equivalent.






NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Nepal is a poor country and very little development has taken place
in the water and sewerage sector. IDA has made a start in assisting the sec-
tor through a first Project (Credit 470-NEP signed on May 8, 1974).  This
Project although small (US$10.4 million) was considered to be appropriate to
Nepal's implementation capability and financial constraints but was much less
than had been proposed by the consultants for the project. It provides for
basic extensions and improvements to water sources as well as transmission
and primary distribution facilities. The sewerage component provides for a
new trunk sewerage system and sewage treatment facilities. The implementation
of the Project is a year behind schedule but all the major contracts are being
awarded and the Project is now proceeding satisfactorily. However, since the
1973 appraisal of this project, due to steep worldwide inflation a cost over-
run of about US$6.0 million (58% of project cost) is anticipated.  His Maj-
esty's Government of Nepal (HMG) had considered and rejected the alternatives
of either reducing the scope of the Project or financing the cost overrun it-
self. The Project was too small to begin with to allow further reduction and
procurement is in an advanced stage; also HMG's capacity to raise resources
is limited.  Additional financing of US$4.0 million is currently under con-
sideration by the Executive Directors to assist in financing the cost overrun.
HMG has now requested an IDA credit for a second project to help finance cer-
tain additional improvements and extensions of water supply and sewerage facil-
ities in the Kathmandu Valley, including Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bode/Thimi and
water supply facilities in Pokhara, a major regional center; in Biratnagar, a
regional center in the eastern Terai; and in Birganj, a town astride the main
access route from India to Kathmandu. The second project is expected to cost,
excluding duties and taxes, NRs 136.9 million (US$11.0 million equivalent).
Customs duties and taxes are estimated at NRs 4.2 million (US$C.3 million
equivalent)   The proposed credit of US$8.0 million will cover about 73% of
total oroject costs excluding duties and taxes, the remainder will be financed
by HMG as an equity contribution.
1.02      The project is based on the following four studies completed by
Binnie & Partners, London in 1973:
(a) A master p:Lan and feasibility studies for water supply
and sewerage for Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bode/Thimi and
Bhaktapur financed by UNDP with WHO as executing agency;
(b)  Preliminary studies of water supply and sanitation in the
villages of Kathmandu Valley financed by MSG;
(c)  A study of the water and sewerage sector in Nepal financed
by UNDP; and



- 2 -
(d) Feasibility studies of water supply and sewerage for five
regional centers, including Pokhara, Biratnagar and Birganj,
financed by HMG.
Cost estimates in these studies have been reviewed and updated,
as necessary, for the second project, by the Water Supply and Sewerage Board
(WSSB) with the assistance of Engineering Science Inc. of California, who
are consultants for the implementation of the first project.
1.03      An appraisal mission composed of Messrs. L.V. Smith, Financial
Analyst, and T. Skytta, Sanitary Engineer, visited Nepal in October 1976,
and after a review by the mission the project components were defined and the
construction program scheduled. This report is based upon the above reports,
on information provided by HMG, WSSB, and Engineering Science Inc. and on the
mission's findings.
II. THE SECTOR
A. Present Situation
2.01      Nepal, with an estimated population of 12.6 million at the end of
1975, and an area of 141,000 sq km, is almost rectangular in shape, about
800 km long, and lies parallel to the main Himalayan range of mountains. About
two-thirds of the land area is taken up by high mountains and the lower slopes;
the remaining one-third--a narrow strip to the south, called the Terai--is the
borderline of the Indo Gangetic plains (see Map IBRD 12629).
2.02      About 10% of the population live in the Himalayan region, 50% in the
hills of the lower slopes and the remainder in the Terai. The overall growth
rate is about 2.2%. Severe pressure on land in the hills has increased south-
ward migration and strained the limited utility services, such as water supply,
in some of the foothill and Terai towns, where such services are available.
2.03      Though rainfall is generally substantial, varying between 1,000 mm
and 1,600 mm a year, it is unevenly distributed with heavy concentrations in
the June to September monsoon season. Five rivers, Kankai Mai, Karnala,
Bagmati, Rapti and Babai follow this monsoon regime, but do not go completely
dry, as do numerous smaller rivers. The four main rivers in the country, the
Mahakali, Karnali, Narayani and Sapta Kosi are all snow-fed and have a sus-
tained flow. Surface water resources are therefore plentiful.
2.04      In recent years test well drilling has indicated the availability of
groundwater in limited quantities, both in the hills and in the Terai, as a
possible source both for irrigation and community water supplies, but further
test drilling is needed to confirm the extent of availability. In the long
term, surface water sources will have to be developed.



- 3 -
2.05      At present only about 6% of the people of Nepal living in some 58
communities have piped water supplies, and the majority of these live in the
larger urban areas. Apart from a small section of Kathmandu none of these
communities have sewage disposal facilities.
B. Sector Development
Urban Water Supply
2.06      Twenty-four urban areas with a 1975 population of 630,000 have
water supply systems serving about 86% of that population. About 20,000
house connections including 5,000 metered connections serve a population of
about 1.60,000 (25% of the urban population). The balance of population
served use standpipes. The unserved population use, because of greater con-
venienc:e, the traditional sources of water (private tubewells, dugwells,
rivers and other sources) even though they are of doubtful quality.
2.07      All urban supplies are intermittent due to insufficient source,
storage or distribution capacity. Although water treatment is provided in
Kathmandu and Lalitpur, no supply can be considered to be safe when it reaches
the consumer.
2.08      In the Terai, the towns lying at the foot of the hills use water
from pierennial streams and those lying near the Indian border use groundwater.
2.09      Kathmandu uses fully treated surface water which is available in
adequate quantities at the sources, but due to large leakage and wastage in
the distribution systems which empties the reservoirs, the supply is available
only four to six hours a day. In Lalitpur, the supply is from three springs
supplemented by a supply from the Bagmati River, but is only sufficient for a
mainly standpipe supply. Bhaktapur's source, a perennial stream, and the
spring supply for Pokhara are inadequate during the dry season. Biratnagar
has a tubewell source constructed in 1965 and Birganj has two tubewells con-
structed in 1965 and 1973.
2.10      The first IDA Project construction started in early 1976 and is due
for ccmpletion at the end of 1978 at which time the population served with
water by WSSB will be about 430,000. The only other on-going external assist-
ance in the urban water sector is being given by the Federal German Government
to the central area of Bhaktapur, an attractive tourist center.
Rural Water Supply
2.11      Less than 2% of the rural population have access to piped water
suppl:-es.  These were constructed by the Water Supply and Sewerage Department
(WSSD) with the assistance of the-United Nations International Children's
Emergency Fund (UNICEF). The Government of India has also assisted both urban
and rural water supplies through the Indian Cooperative Mission. The rest of



- 4 -
the rural population take water from traditional sources which are widely
dispersed and often subject to contamination. Due to the distances involved,
the amount of water used both for humans and animals is kept to the absolute
minimum.
2.12      Attempts by HMG to start rural water supplies in the Terai have not
met with success. Shortages of suitable drilling rigs and skilled personnel
and inadequate financial resources have been major constraints.
Sewerage and Drainage
2.13      The only public sewerage system is a small system serving the center
of Kathmandu. In other places, water borne sewerage is rtestricted to hospi-
tals, government buildings and new houses with septic tanks. In most towns,
the shortage of water and poverty of the majority of the population will
prevent the introduction of sewerage systems for some time to come. The
first IDA Project is expected to provide a sewerage service to a population
of 50,000 in 1978.
2.14      Due to the concentration of rainfall during the June to September
monsoon period, there is a need for drainage systems in the towns but even
where these exist, the lack of maintenance causes flooding in the low lying
areas. Only minor drainage work is included in the second project because of
limited funds available, but drainage master plan updating is included so
that future works can be considered.
Water Quality Surveillance
2.15      Only the Kathmandu water supply system is subjected to chemical
quality testing and occasionally to bacteriological tests; in addition, the
Department of Health carries out some surveillance when cholera or typhoid
cases are reported or suspected.
C. Sector Organization
2.16      During the preparation of the first IDA Project the sector organi-
zation was examined with a view to creating a corporation for the whole of
Nepal as in the telecommunication sector. However, in view of the limited
service area of the project authority, HMG agreed with IDA that as an interim
measure a board should be created for the first Project and then as the sector
developed and experience was gained, it would be converted into a corporation.
A sector report by WHO under the Cooperative Program which, inter alia, will
focus on the long term organizational aspects, is under preparation and is
scheduled for completion in mid 1977. Its recommendations will be taken into
account during the implementation of the second project but are not expected
to affect the organization of the sector significantly before 1980. For the
purpose of this project the sector organization is satisfactory.



2.17      The three main agencies operating in the sector are:
(i) WSSB under MWP;
(ii)  WSSD under MWP;
(iii)  Local Deve:Lopment Department (LDD) under The
Ministry of Panchayat.
2.18      The functions of these agencies are described below:
(i)  WSSB - This board was formed in 1973 to act as executing
agency for the first IDA financed Project for water supply
and sewerage services in Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur,
Kirtipur, Bode, Thimi and several villages around these towns,
all in the Kathmandu Valley and for Pokhara, a town about
200 km to the West.  The population within the present service
area, including Bhaktapur, in 1976 was about 470,000 and some 86%
of these were served with water; under 6% however had sewerage
service. WSSB will increase its area of responsibility under
the second project and will eventually become a statewide
corporation;
(ii)  WSSD has responsibility for design and construction of water
systems in all urban areas other than the Kathmandu Valley
and Pokhara, serving about 72% of a total population of about
0.3 million mostly by public standpipes. It has similar re-
sonsibilities for regional and district headquarters and some
1,350 medium sized rural communities in the 3,000 to 10,000
range with a total population of about 6.4 million. Currently
only about 2% of this is actually served. WSSD also operates
urban and rural water supply schemes not taken over by the
panchayats (town councils), some 38 at present.  No sewerage
schemes are yet in operation. Although WSSD is responsible
for design and construction of these, due to financial and
staff constraints no progress has yet been made;
(i:Li) LDD - This department was created in 1971 to assist communi-
ties of less than 3,000 with public works inrcluding water
supply, and in the long run, sewerage. There are about 2,550
such commujnities (gram panchayats) wi,h a population of about
5.7 million. To date, some 45 projects have been implemented
with considerable assistance from WHO and UNICEF in settle-
ment and rural development projects, benefitting about 60,000
people. Some assistance has also been provided by IDA under
the rural development project (Credit 617-NEP);
(iv) Other Agencies - The Department of Irrigation of the Ministry
of Agriculture, the Resettlement Department of the Ministry
of Forests, the Department of Electricity oF MWP and the
Department of Health Services cf the Ministry of Health are
all marginally involved in the sector, but are expected to



-6-
be increasingly involved in the future, in line with the
economic development of Nepal. The panchayats have been
responsible for operating sewerage and sanitation systems
but have not been able to perform this function satisfac-
torily.
2.19      The concept of paying adequate rates for water service has been,
until recently, unknown in Nepal. Piped water is wrongly regarded as being
freely available in unlimited quantities, and wastage is prevalent. As WSSB
extends its area of activities in the future and improves service, water
charges will have to be increased in all areas, with a view to providing the
service on a self-supporting basis.
2.20      A long time will be required before WSSB will reach its ultimate
goal of taking responsibility for water supply and sewerage services through-
out Nepal as there is a general shortage of trained staff at all levels. WSSB
will need technical assistance for a few more years (see para. 5.06) and is
presently obtaining this from the United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Develop-
ment (ODM) in engineering and financial administration.
2.21      The proposed project will have a significant role in shaping the
future development of WSSB and in helping to establish policies for its sound
management. Difficulties will have to be overcome, but as HMG has given prior-
ity to the sector by the allocation of a larger share of funds, reasonable
progress may be expected.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description of the Project
3.01      The proposed project consists of various works in the Kathmandu
Valley, excluding Bhaktapur town, and in the towns of Pokhara, Biratnagar and
Birganj. In the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara, the works are a continuation
of the ongoing first water supply and sewerage Project. In Biratnagar and
Birganj the proposed project is a first step towards improving and extending
the existing water supply systems, which for a long time have been inadequate
in capacity, extent and quality of services. It is proposed that these two
towns would become part of WSSB's service area in FY1979. With facilities
to be provided by the project, the systems will be adequate to meet the water
supply requirements in the project areas until various dates between 1983 and
1987. The served population in the project area will increase by over 300,000
to 710,000 people by 1985, representing 96% of the tota:L population of these
localities. The provision of sewerage extensions in the congested, popular
tourist areas of Kathmandu and Lalitpur will improve sanitation and public
health and reduce the pollution of the Bagmati River (see para. 3.16).
3.02      The ongoing first Project includes the extension and improvement of
water supply systems in the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara and the construction



- 7 -
of a new sewerage system for Kathmandu and Lalitpur. The final design and
preparation of tender documents for the Project have been completed except
for 1wo tubewell pump houses. The drilling of new tubewells in the valley is
underway and the main supply and construction contracts are being let. The
Project should have been completed in 1977, but due to delays in the early
stages of the implementation of the Project (see para 5.09) the most active
construction period will take place from early 1977 till the end of 1978.
Ihe i-irst new water sources provided for in the first Project will be avail-
able early in 1978 in the Kathmandu Valley (Pharping Springs) and in 1979 in
Pokhara (Kali Khola Scheme). The contract between WSSB and the consultants
for the implementation and supervision of the first Project, Engineering
Science Inc., contLnues until early 1979.
3.03      A detailed description of the project components is in Annex 1 and
illustrated in Maps IBRD 12672 and 12677 to 12680. A summary is given below.
(a) Water Supply
(i) Kathmandu and Lalitpur: Rehabilitation of four km
of the existing leaky distribution mains in sizes from
80 mim to 300 mm along with 5,000 service connections
as well as a number of standpipes, gatevalves and other
system facilities and construction of 48 km of new, 80
mm to 150 mm, distribution mains;
(ii) Villages in the Kathmandu Valley: New supplies to ten
villages involving the construction of 29 km of pipelines
in sizes 80 mm to 200 mm;
(iii) The town of Bode/Thimi in the Kathmandu Valley: Exten-
sion of the distribution system by constructing 6.5 km
of new mains in siies 80 mm to 200 mm and a new service
reservoir of 500 m for replacement of the existing leaking
and unsound reservoir;
(iv) Pokhara: Extension of the distribution system by con-
structing 11 km of pipelines in sizes 80 mm and 100 mm
and a new service reservoir of 500 m for replacement
of the existing Bindhabasini reservoir which is dete-
riorating badly due to poor foundations;
(v) Biratnagar: The construction of a new tubewell scheme
including 5wo deep wells with an estimated capacity
of 4,200 m /day each; improvements to the existin§
well for restoring the design capacity of 3,000 m /
day; extension oL the distribution network by con-
structing 34 km of pipelines in sizes 50 mm to 350
mm; the 5onstruction of an elevated service reservoir
of 500 m ; minor buildings such as staff quarters,
office and laboratory;



- 8 -
(vi)  Birganj:  Improvements to the existing wells and
extension of the distribution network including 27
km of pipelines varying from 50 mm to 25C mm;
(vii)  Installation of 27,000 new, metered service con-
nections in the four project towns;
(viii) Equipment and tools for maintenance and leak detection,
as well as vehicles for operations and office machines.
(b) Sewerage
Extension of the collector sewer network in Kathmandu and
Lalitpur consisting of nine km of sewer lines in sizes 200 mm
to 500 mm.
(c) Consulting Services
Consulting services including updating of water supply and
sewerage master plans for the project towns, detailed design,
preparation of tender documents, evaluation of bids, super-
vision of project implementation, a tariff study and feasibil-
ity studies in six provincial towns for future projects.
These services will include 138 man-months of foreign con-
sultants at an estimated average cost of about US$7,350 per
man-month plus US$324,000 for local staff and US$161,700 for
travel and other expenses; a total cost of US$1.5 million.
Local consultants are not yet available in Nepal for this
type of work.
(d) Training of Staff
Providing the staff with on-the-job training under the
supervision of the ODM team (see para. 5.07).
B. Cost Estimates
3.04      The estimated costs of the project are summarized below and detailed
in Annex 2.



- 9 -
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total
--- NRs Millions --          US$ Millions ---
Water Supply
Sour,ces                        1.2    1.9        3.1    0.1      0.2      0.3
Distribution Pipelines         25.4   22.4       47.8    2.0      1.8      3.8
Reservoirs                      1.7    0.6        2.3    0.2       -       0.2
Water Connections               1.5    6.1        7.6    0.1      0.5      0.6
Vehicles, Tools & Equipment   0.6    1.4          2.0    0.1      0.1      0.2
Staff Quarters, etc.            0.4    0.1        0.5     -        -        -
Sub-total                    30.8   32.5      63.3    2.5       2.6      5.1
Sewerage
Extensions of Sewerage
System                        5.7    4.3      10.0    0.5       0.3      0.8
Physical Contingencies            5.8    5.6       11.4    0.4      0.5      0.9
Sub-total                    42.3   42.4      84.7    3.4       3.4      6.8
Consulting Services               5.4   12.7       18.1    0.5      1.0      1.5
Land                              0.5      -        0.5      -       -        -
Training                          0.1               0.1      -       -        -
Administration                     1.6      -     _ 1.6    0.1       -       0.1
Sub-total                    49.9   55.1    105.0    4.0        4.4      8.4
Price Contingencies               16.9   15.0      31.9    1.4      1.2      2.6
Tot;al Costs                   66.8   70.1    136.9    5.4        5.6    11.0
Duties and Taxes                4.2      -        4.2    0.3       -       0.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            71.0   70.1    14101    5.7        5.6    11.3
3.05      The project is based on feasibility studies prepared some three to
four years ago. The final design of the first Project in the Kathmandu Val-
ley and Pokhara has shown the necessity of updating the master plans to re-
flect the need for additional reservoir capacity and future development of
the primary network. Development of new residential areas in Biratnagar and
Birganj also necessitates master plan updating and this will include arrange-
mentS for water supply for the adjoining villages.



- 10 -
3.06      Of the estimated total costs excluding duties and taxes--NRs 136.9
million (US$11.0 million equivalent)--NRs 115.8 million is for water supply,
NRs 18.1 million is for sewerage and NRs 3.0 million is for a tariff study
and feasibility studies for future Projects.
3.07      Construction costs are based on unit rates obtained in Nepal from
recent tenders for the first Project; base costs are at January 1977. Duties
and taxes, estimated at NRs. 4.2 million, are shown separately in the proj-
ect cost estimate.
3.08      The design of the project components is at a preliminary stage but
because of reasonable construction conditions, moderate physical contingency
provisions ranging from 10% to 20% have been added to the costs of components.
Price contingencies on base line estimates for both local and foreign costs
have been included on the basis of the following rates which are satisfactory
for the expected prices in Nepal:
1977      1978       1979       1980      1981
Equipment          8          8         8          7          7
Civil Works       12         12        12         10         10
C.  Project Finance
3.09      The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 million would finance about 73%
of the total cost of the project which is estimated at US$11.0 million equiv-
alent excluding duties and taxes. US$5.6 million or 70% of the credit would
finance foreign exchange expenditures. The balance of U'S$2.4 million would
finance 42% of local currency expenditures. The remaining local costs of
US$3.0 million equivalent would be financed by HMG in the form of an equity
contribution as would be the US$0.3 million equivalent for duties and taxes.
D. Procurement
3.10      As in the first Project (Credit 470-NEP) all equipment and civil
works contracts will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA's Guidelines, except for minor contracts for
(a) civil works for water supply and sewerage extensions, repairs, improve-
ments, house connections and metering, minor buildings and providing electri-
city supplies, each individually below US$100,000; and (b) equipment supplies
each below US$50,000, as these would be unattractive or otherwise unsuitable
for international competitive bidding. These minor contracts will be let
under local procurement procedures which are satisfactory. The total of these
contracts will not exceed US$500,000, and may include works by force account.
3.11      Although there is no manufacturer of pipes in Nepal at present,
such a factory could be established. A margin of preference of up to 15% or



- 11 -
customs duty, whichever is lower, is proposed to be granted to local manufac-
turers. Similarly a margin of preference of 7.5% is proposed for local civil
works contractors.
E. Disbursements
3.12      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a five year
period with the Credlit closing in June 1982. A quarterly disbursement fore-
cast is shown in Annex 3. Disbursements would be made against:
(a)  Civil Works (including force account):  100% of foreign
expenditures and 30% of local expenditures.
(b)  Equipment and Supplies:
(i)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goodLs; or
(ii) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for
locally manufactured goods; or
(iii)  60% of local expenditures for other goods procured
locally.
(c) Consulting services: 100% of total expenditures.
Disbursements for Civil Works under force account will be made against a
statement of expenditure with the supporting documentation retained by the
borrower and held available for inspection during the course of supervision
missions. Disbursement for all other items will be fully documented.
F. Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction
3.13      WSSB's Project-in-Charge (General Manager) will be responsible for
carrying out the project. As WSSB will not have adequate senior technical
staff for the expanding operation, consultants would be engaged to prepare
updating of master plans, detailed designs and bid documents, to evaluate bids
and supervise construction. The construction schedule covers a period of about
four years and is shown in Annex 4. It is scheduled to be completed in mid-
1981. Consultants will also be needed for feasibility studies required for
preparation of future projects (see paragraph 3.03(c)). HMG has agreed that
consultants acceptable to IDA will be engaged for the project and to carry
out feasibility studies; their appointment would be a condition of effective-
ness of the credit. A preliminary implementation schedule (see Annex 1,
appendix 1) has been established with HMG. The schedule will be revised after
compLetion of master plan updating.



- 12 -
G. Land Acquisition and Temporary Access
3.14      The total time required for land acquisition is not expected to
exceed 18 months. Sites for new wells and a reservoir have to be acquired
and temporary access for pipelines obtained. A detailed timetable for legal
actions on land acquisition and temporary access has been established with
HMG.
H. Impact of the Project on the Urban Poor
3.15      At the present time standpipes or temporary sources such as streams
and ponds serve the urban poor in the project towns and adjoining semi-urban
villages. In the Terai towns of Biratnagar and Birganj public and private
handpumps and open shallow wells are also used. All these sources are subject
to contamination. The first and second projects will ensure a continuous
service and thus improve the supply of potable water through standpipes.
The inclusion of new fringe villages in the piped water supply system and an
increase in the number of standpipes within the existing systems will improve
health standards for an additional population of over 75,000 most of whom are
in the category of urban poor. The use of standpipes will be subsidized by
HMG (see para. 6.14) and these will gradually replace the unsafe handpumps,
shallow wells, streams and ponds as a main source of supply for the urban
poor.
I. Environmental Impact
3.16      The Bagmati river, the principal water course flowing through the
Kathmandu Valley, receives most of the liquid wastes and some of the solid
wastes of the area. The greatest contamination occurs from sewage flowing
into the river at Bhaktapur, Lalitpur and Kathmandu. The first project pro-
vides for the first stage of sewage collection and treatment in two of these
towns, Kathmandu and Lalitpur. With the extensions of the collection systems
in the second project, sanitary conditions of the area will be further im-
proved, pollution of the river reduced and ecological and health benefits
realized. In other project towns the increased use of water may endanger the
quality of water in nearby rivers and sewerage construction would be included
in future projects.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
4.01      Kathmandu, the capital city, and neighboring Lalitpur and Bhaktapur,
all in Kathmandu Valley, are the country's most important cities with several
tourist attractions. Pokhara is an important regional center with tourist
potential, and Biratnagar and Birganj are two major towns adjacent to the
border with India and astride two of the main communication roads between



- 13 -
India and Nepal.  The two latter toTwms, iwnose water supply operations are
presently carried out by the Panchayat and WSSD respectively, were, due to
finar.cial constrairnts, not included in the first: Project. Despite favorable
economic prospects, the water supply facilities in these cities barely provide
a six-hour daily supply, and sanitary services are practica'i-y nonexistent.
As the water supply is intermittent it cannot be considered safe=  Waterborne
diseases such as gastro-enteritis, dysentery and typhoid  aave a tigh incidence,
and the danger of a cholera epidemic lurks in the background.  Because of the
lack of sewerage facilities, debilitating fecal-borne diseases such as hookworm
and roundworm are common. The high priority given to the second project by
MTIG is well justified.  The existing facilities are described in Annex 5.
4.02      The first IDA financed Project is providlng adequate water sources
for l:he areas covered by that project as wellr as distribution systems and
s,ewage collection systems and treatment works.  The second project will fur-
tner expand the water distribution and sewage collection works as well as
improve the water supply facilities and distribution systems in the two addi-
tional towns.
4.03      Projections of population and water demanas are showvn in Annex 6.
As the water supplies are intermittent at presenit, and 50% to 95% of the
served population in various towns are on standpipe supplies, the consumption
is low, varying from 20 to 70 1/cd. In Biratnagar and Birganj the percentage
of the population served is also low--16% and 40% respectively. The rest of
the population in the towns and almost all in the adjoining villages are
dependent on public or private handpumps, ope-n wells, or on other temporary
sources which are exposed to contamination.  Th'  two projects will improve
the water supply conditions in the project areas so that 96% of the population
will be served by a 24-hour supply by 1985, anrd. the consumption will be
brought up to about 75 1/cd on average.
4.04      The facilities included in theg first Project were for Kathmandu
Vall2y and Pokhara, and were selected from several alternatives as the least-
cost solution for meeting the requirements of the Project area. The second
project is a logical continuation of the first Project and makes fuller use of
the basic source and distribution facilities being constructed under the first
project.  The facilities in the second project for Biratnagar and Birganj are
selected on the least-cost solution basi-s and fore the first stage of water
supply development in those towns.
4.05      A meaningful internal financial rate of return on the project cannot
be calculated since benefits can only be quantified using incremental. sales to
metered consumers, and these at present contribute only about 25% of total re-
venues (though the proportion will gradually increase). Calculations of the
.average incremental cost (AIC) of supplying 1,000 liters of water and collect-
ing and treating 1,000 liters of sewage have been made using the capital costs
of the first and second projects with some additional expenditure on sewage
collectors plus operating costs in relation to the additional units of water
Consumption and sewage flows generated by thoss e.xpenditures. These AICs
(at 1975/76 levels) are compared with pr-esent an/d 'uture tariffs as follows:



- 14 -
Water    Sewerage        Deflator
Per 1,000 liters of water used
NRs       NRs                6%
Average incremental cost (AIC)                1.62        1.95              Nil
Metered tariff for consumption in
excess of 10,000 liters - current             .80         -                Nil
Present value of proposed sewerage
charge for FY1978                             -          93.36 (0.40) /a  1.12
Present value of expected tariff
for FY79                                    1.34 (1.60) 0.67 (0.80)       1.19
Present value of probable tariff
for FY1981                                  1.80 (2.40) 0.90 (1.20)       1.34
Present value of probable tariff
for FY1983                                  2.41 (3.60) [.20 (1.80)       1.50
/a   Actual values in parenthesis
The present value of the expected water charge for FY1979 is close to the
AIC and in FY1981 the present value of the probable tariff is in excess of
the AIC, however for sewerage the charge is very much lower. The sewerage
service is new and several years will elapse before the use of the service
builds up sufficiently for the AIC and the charge to come close together,
but even then it is likely that the charge will still fall short of the
AIC. All charges are subject to further review after completion of the
tariff study (see para 6.09) and this study will seek tc show how to bring
the sewerage charge closer to the sewerage AIC.
4.06      WSSB will be committed to setting tariffs that will progressively
strengthen its financial position (see para. 6.17), but the substantive justi-
fication for the project does not rest primarily on the financial forecasts
but rather on the fact that a modest level of water supply is provided parti-
cularly for the urban poor, in the most economic manner, and that the health
hazards of not doing so are serious. Moreover, Nepal's tourism potential is
one of the valuable assets of the country but to be exploitable requires that
reasonably safe health conditions prevail. Other benefits of the project
affect the general quality of life and include health, social and environ-
mental improvements and the ending of further deterioration to the existing
installations all of which are difficult to quantify. The second project
will also support the favorable economic prospects for the project area (see
para. 4.01). The average incremental cost for water is about NRs 1.60 per
1,000 liters. With the tariff increase expected for FY1979, consumers with
metered connections will pay about this rate for the consumption in excess



- 15 -
of 10,000 liters per month and the first 10,000 liters per month (see para
6.111) will be charged at a lower "lifeline rate." 1/ This would promote
efficient resource allocation.
4.07      Further benefits will arise from the continued development of
WSSB as a satisfactory institution to operate the facilities provided by
the ?roject, to carry out its objectives, and to extend its expertise and
services into additional areas of Nepal.
V. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
A. The Borrower
5.01      HMG, the Borrower, will onlend the proceeds of the credit to WSSB.
(See para. 6.06.)
B. The Beneficiary
5.02      WSSB, the Beneficiary, was created in 1973 by an order of HMG under
the Development Board Act 1956, to carry out the first Project.  The order
gave WSSB adequate powers to take over and operate the assets of the exist-
ing water supply and sewerage systems in the Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara
to develop them and to maintain its own funds and accounts and make its own
rules with the approval of HMG. Adequate rules have been made as follows:
(a) Financial Procedure Rules 1973;
(b) Employees Management Rules 1973;
(c) Water Regulations 1974;
(d) Provident Fund Rules 1975;
(e) Water Service Tariff Charge Rules 1975; and
(f) Sewerage and Sewage Disposal Rules 1976;
5.03      The Board of WSSB has seven members under the chairmanship of the
Secr-etary, MWP. The other six are the Project-in-Charge of WSSB who is the
secretary, the Chief Engineer of WSSD and representatives of the National
Planning Commission Secretariat, and of the Ministries of Finance, Health
and Panchayat.
1/   "lifeline rate" means a subsidized rate for the minimum amount of
water required by an average family to maintain a healthy and pro-
ductive life.,



- 16 -
C. Organization and Management
5.04      The chief executive officer of WSSB is the Project-in-Charge to
whom the Board has delegated most of its powers so that he may have the
freedom of action to ensure that WSSB operates effectively. The two top
executives next to the Project-in-Charge are the Manager-Engineering and the
Manager-Finance and Administration. The former assisted by a chief of design
and construction and a chief of operations, will be responsible for completing
the first Project, carrying out the second project and operating and maintain-
ing the systems. The latter, assisted by a chief of finance and a chief of
administration is responsible for collecting the revenue, keeping the accounts
and general administration. Division engineers with line responsibility to
the Manager-Engineering will represent WSSB in Biratnagar, Birganj and Pokhara.
The organization chart for WSSB is shown at Annex 7. Th-is represents the pres-
ent organizational structure with the addition of the two new project areas
of Biratnagar and Birganj. The performance of WSSB in imaplementing the first
Project has not been as good as had been expected at the time of appraisal
particularly on the letting of contracts and the Project is now about 12 months
behind schedule.  However all the major contracts are being let and no further
delays are anticipated.
D. Management and Accounting Systems
5.05      Systems have been designed by the consultants for the first Project
for long range planning, budgetary controls and reporting procedures and also
for accounting based upon accrual principles. The latter entail a complete
change of accounting philosophy from that of the traditional government cash
accounting to an appropriate system of public utility accrual accounting with
separate accounts for water and sewerage. Progress has been slower than was
anticipated at the time of appraisal of the first Project and WSSB requires
assistance to complete the introduction of, and training in the operation of,
these systems. HMG has agreed that WSSB will arrange for the necessary train-
ing. A new billing and collection system has also been introduced and this
is being operated satisfactorily.
E. Staff
5.06      The staff of WSSB has been built up to a satisfactory level and
the position of Project-in-Charge is filled by a person with acceptable
qualifications. Arrangements have been made by HMG with ODM for technical
assistance in the fields of engineering, finance, leak detection, metering,
water production and laboratory work. The ODM team has been working with
WSSB since the middle of 1974 with excellent results. HMG has agreed that
such technical assistance should continue with the exception of leak detec-
tion and metering where the experts' contracts are due to terminate and local
staff are sufficiently trained, but with the addition of a trainer in water



- 17 -
supply system operation and maintenance. I-ZiG has also agreed that it will
continue to fill the position of Project-in-Charge wich a person of such
qualifications and experience as are appropriate to such position and
acceptable to IDA.
F. Training
5.07      There are no facilities for professional training in engineering
or accountancy in Nepal.  Such studies are pursued abroad, mainly in India,
by scholarships or with the aid of bilat:eral or multilateral agencies. Post
graduate training has also to be obtained abroad and four engineers have com-
pleted or are undertaking appropriate training. EMG has agreed that similar
training should continue and that finance staff should also be included.
Local technical institutions provide training at the sub-professional level
for supervisors and surveyors. The teclnical assistance staff, particularly
the designated trainer, will supplement the institutional training by on-the-
job training.  HMG has agreed that WSSB will institute a program of overseas,
local and on-the-job training.
G. Audit
5.08      The audit is presently being carried out by a professional account-
ant appointed by the Auditor-General and is paid for by WSSB.  The scope of
the audit is inadequate both in content and in depth and after discussions
with the Auditor-General considerable improvement is expected.  HMG has agreed
that an auditor satisfactory to IDA will be appointed and that audited finan-
cial statements would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the
period audited.
H. Project Risks
5.09)     There is adequate provision in the second project for engineering
consultants to carry out detailed design, to prepare and evaluate bid docu-
ments and to supervise construction of the project components. However, WSSB
is still a comparatively new organization and in ti-e early stages of the im-
plementation of the first project there has been some delay in the letting of
contracts. This is due in part to the complexity of these contracts, but also
due to the very much higher than expected bid prices.  However the Board is
continuing to gain experience and has adopted a timetable system for bid let-
tingi to eliminate as many delays as possible. It is expected that future bid
invitations should attract more competitive offers than in the past, particu-
larly from India, as the two new project areas are on the Indian border.
5.10      The financial requirements of WSSB over the project period call
for very high tariff increases in order to meet a comparatively low rate of
return covenant and political and social pressures may make this difficult



- 18 -
to achieve. However a tariff study is planned as part of the second project
and this will recommend tariffs that will maximize revenues and at the same
time give the lower income groups the benefit of the new and improved services
and should assist WSSB and HMG in making tariff decisions (see para. 6.09).
5.11      In order to maintain its role in the long process of institution
building, IDA should continue its financial participation and accept the
risks of dealing with a somewhat inexperienced institution with a lower than
average financial performance target. Supervision missions will be alert to
the problems and will recommend steps during project implementation to correct
any situation before it seriously affects the project.
VI. FINANCE
A. General
6.01      An examination of the financial statements of WSSB and its pre-
decessor in the project area is limited to historical accounts synthesized
by consultants in 1973 and unaudited accounts for FY1974--a period prior to
the creation of WSSB--plus audited accounts for FY1975 and FY1976, the first
two years of WSSB's operations. Proforma income statements, flow of funds
statements and balance sheets are shown in Annexes 8, 9 and 10 and the assump-
tions for these are shown in Annex 11.
B. Past Performance and Present Financial Position (FY1975 and FY1976)
6.02      The audited statement of accounts for FY1975, the first year of
WSSB's operations, shows that income covered all cash operating costs as well
as part of the provision for depreciation. No target rate of return on aver-
age net fixed assets in operations was covenanted for FY1975 and the actual
rate of return was negative. The resulting potential cash flow problems were
relieved, however, by the fact that HM4G provided its full 25% equity contribu-
tion towards the first Project expenditures in the year, whereas the actual
Project expenditures were much lower, i.e. NRs 7.0 million actual instead of
the estimated NRs 15.2 million. The portion of the HMG equity contribution
not used for the Project was taken for working capital. Such use of these
funds is acceptable as a temporary measure but in the long run, working cap-
ital should be provided from WSSB's own resources or additionally by HMG.
Informal assurances have been given by HMG that any equity contribution funds
used as working capital would be replaced by additional equity contributions
when required for project purposes.
6.03      The audited statements for FY1976 show a somewhat better financial
performance than in FY1975 with a revenue surplus of NRs 300,000. The rate
covenant under Credit 470-NEP required WSSB to meet a 1% rate of return and



- 19 -
this was nearly achieved. The improveinent was brought about by a 60% tariff
increase made in FY1975, the full year's benefit of which was only received
in FY1976.
6.C4      The financial position of WSSB at the end of FY1976 was as follows
(see Annexes 8, 9 and 10 for fuller details).
NRs Millions
ASSETS                                     LIABILITIES
Net: Assets                     41.48      Equity                        63.58
Work in Progress                 23.99     Debt                          13.91
Current Assets
Cash                8.01
Receivables         1.57
Other               3.58
13.16
Less: Current
Liabilities 1.14       12.02
Tol:al Assets                   77.49      Total Liabilities             77.49
Debt/Equity Ratio                18/82
Receivables to Billings         37%
Current Ratio                   11.5 times
While the position shown above (after only two years' operations) cannot be
taken as the basis for making any profound judgement, WSSB's financial position
wa3 nevertheless reasonably satisfactory. At the end of FY1976 WSSB had a low
debt/equity ratio--giving a margin for further borrowing--and receivables at
37Z of billings, half of which were due from HMG for standpipes. WSSB pro-
poses to take steps to reduce these to not more than 25%.
C. Financing Plan
6.05      WSSB's capital investment and working capital requirements during
the period FY1978 to FY1981 along with the sources from which they would be
met are summarized below:



- 20 -
US$
NRs      Equivalent       Percentage
000's       000's
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Proiect
First Project (Balance)               49,340        3,950             15
First Project (Cost Overrun)          75,390        6,030             23
Second Project                       135,130       10,810             41
Duties and Taxes                       4,200          330               1
Studies for a third Project            1,750          140              1
Subtotal                           265,810       21,260             81
Other
Start of Third Project                30,000        2,400              9
Other Work by WSSB                    11,000          880              4
Increase in Working CaDital           19,490        1,560              6
Total Application of Funds         326,300       26,100            100
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation              45,120        3,610             14
Less:  Debt Service                   23,080        1,850              7
Net Cash Generation                   22,040        1,760              7
Borrowing
First IDA Credit (Balance)            41,880        3,350             13
Supplemental Financing                50,000        4,000             15
Proposed IDA Credit                  100,000        8,000             31
HMG Loan for Start of Third
Project                             21,000        1,680              6
HMG Equity Contributions /a
First Project (Balance)                3,500          280              1
First Project (Cost overrun)          26,180        2,100              8
Second Project                        37,500        3,000             11
Duties and Taxes                       4,200          330               1
Start of Third Project                 9,000          720              3
Other Work                            11,000          880              4
Total Sources of Funds             326,300       26,100            100
/a   The value of the Biratnagar and Birganj assets amounting to NRs 6.73
million to be vested in WSSB in FY1979 (see para. 6.20) is not included
in the financing plan.



- 21 -
The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million equ±vl- Ient wlll prov-.ide aDout 31%
and the balance of the first IDA credit w:ith the suLpplemental financing, about
28% of the financing required during the project period. HMG will provide
about US$9.0 million equivalent which is about 34% of the financing required.
This includes about US$5.7 million equiva'Lent in Che form of equity contri-
butions. US$1,7 million equivalent in the foru; of- a loan, and US$0.7 million
equivalent in the form of an equity contrlbution for the start of a third
project.  Other work amounting to about US$0.9 million will be carried out
by WSSB with HMG equity contributions.  Internal cash generation amounting
to about US$1.8 million equivalent will be required almost entirely for use
as working capital.
6.06      HMG proposed, as in the first Project, to onlend the proceeds of
the credit at 6% foIr 25 years but not to charge :nterest for t1he first five
years  rn order to reduce some of the intial f n.nuacua  bur den on l SS    How-
ever, the financial projections indicate that 'WSSB coulI'd mai-ntain interest
payments based upon a rate of 9%, which is about the current Bank Group lend-
ing rate.  The decision of HMG to waive interest for the first f ive years is
acceptable and will assist WSSB by reducing the drain on its operating reve-
nues during the period when the new project works are under construction or
only partially productive.  It will also alleviaze any potential cash flow
proo1 enMs because, despite the projected large tevifnf icreases  there would
be inadequate cash to pay this interest.  Capita:lization of' interest durirg
construction (even when actually payable) is not practiced in Nepal and is
not pr-oposed for the waived interest referred t.o above nor is it proposed to
add this to the amounts onlent to WSSB due to the difficulty that would arise
in sustaining the slubsequent higher level of debt service.  T'.L view of the
ex;pected li4fe of the facilities to be built, a 25 year onlending term  for the
credic  is considered reasonable.  During the second project period FY1978 to
FY198L }H{G is expected to contribute an average of about NRs 22.8 million a
year, compared with NRs 10.5 million annually during the first three years of
WSSB's operations.  HMG, as part of its program to maximize the generation of
local resources, has changed its policy on the vailring of customs duty and
taxes on projects, and these will be charged in future and become part of the
project cost.  However HMG has given informal assurances that it intends to
make add.tional equity contributions to reimburse WSSE for any duties and taxes
paid. EMG has agreed to provide all funds required to complete the second
projezt, and to onlend the proposed IDA credit to WSSB for 25 years at 9%
with a five year grace period on amortization and no payment of interest in
the first five years (7.2% equivalent over the 25 years). The execution of a
subsidiary loan agreement between HMG and WSSB to cover the onlending of the
IDA credit on terms acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness
o: the credit.
6D07      The need for carrying out minor capital w'o-,s outside the scope of
the project might arise during the course of the construction of the project.
TrJ avoid the overburdening of WSSB's implementationr and financial capacity,
W4G has agreed that the value of such works in any year un.il completion of
the project would nLot exceed NRs 6.25 million (CS$$3.5 .million equivalent)
witout adequate strengthening of the project organmiation of WSSB.



- 22 -
D. Present Water Charges
6.08      The present charges for water, which are detailed in Annex 12, were
introduced in 1975. The flat rate charge varies according to the size of the
supply pipe and the number of taps, and is heavily biased in favor of the
smaller consumers. The metered charge is at the rate of NRe 0.50 per 1,000
liters for the first 10,000 liters per month (US$0.15 per 1,000 US gallons)
and NRe 0.80 per 1,000 liters (US$0.24 per 1,000 US gallons) for all consump-
tion over 10,000 liters, with a minimum charge according to the size of the
supply pipe. This compares to a charge of US$0.25 per 1,000 US gallons for
all consumption in Lahore, Pakistan and for domestic consumption in Chittagong,
Bangladesh. Standpipes are charged to HMG at the rate of NRs 100.00 per
standpipe per month. There is an additional fee for late payment.
E. Tariff Study
6.09      A tariff study was proposed in the first Project and UNDP offered
financing for this. The study was not implemented following the curtailment
of UNDP funds and it is now included in this project. The objective of the
present tariff is to allow WSSB to earn sufficient revenues to cover its
operating costs and to produce a positive rate of return on average net fixed
assets in operation while at the same time enabling the lower income groups
to obtain minimum services at a "lifeline rate." As the tariff is based upon
very limited information and experience, a tariff and connection charge study
is scheduled to be completed by the end of 1977 when more adequate data on
demand should be available. The study will include the following:
(a) a review of all types of water and sewerage facilities
available and the extent to which these are used;
(b) the ability of consumers to pay for the services;
(c) an analysis of incremental system costs and the rela-
tionship between these and the charges;
(d) the effect of metering in relationship to present and
future tariffs and the use of alternative methods to
reduce wastage;
(e) the effect of water and sewerage connection charges on
the rate of new connections and the introduction of easy
payment terms;
(f) a review of the charges for standpipes and alternatives
to these, e.g., bucket sales;



- 23 -
(g) alternative methods of charging for the sewerage services,
e.g., general taxation or property tax;
(h)  the tariff structure to be used with the possibility of
introducing a more graduated tariff; and
(i) annual asset revaluation and its implications for the
tariff.
MMG has agreed that consultants acceptable to IDA will be employed for this
study .
6.10      Because of a water shortage, new connections have been kept to a
minimum in the past but when the water from the first Project begins to flow
in early 1978 it will be possible to increase the rate of new connections.
The tariff study will assist in providirng a basis for making proper connec-
tions at a reasonable cost by early 1978. Sewer connection charges will also
be studied at the same time. As the second project develops WSSB will intro-
duce a house connection program which will enable the more affluent of the
present standpipe users--55% of the population use standpipes--to take indi-
vidual house connections, thus freeing the use of standpipes for the urban
poor who cannot afford a house connection.
F.  Future Water and Sewerage Charges
General
6.11      The consultants for the first Project had considered that a family
would be prepared to spend 5% of its income on water and sewerage services.
With an average of about eight persons in each family and water usage of about
40 I/cd the monthly consumption of a family on a separate metered connection
would be about 10,000 liters. At the present minimum monthly charge of NRs
5.0C (equivalent of metered water charges for the first 10,000 liters per
month), plus a potential sewer surcharge of 50%, the annual charge for a family
would be about NRs 90.00. This is appropriate to an annual family income of
NRs 1,800 which is about the average for the lowest urban income group. Thus
it would be appropriate for future tariff increases to be imposed mainly upon
water consumption in excess of the monthly minimum of 10,000 liters. These
aspects will be reviewed during the tariff study.
Water Charges
6.12      Large increases in water charges will be required in the coming
years, the first being in FY1979 and FY1980 when the Pharping Springs water
beg-ns to flow into the system and improves the service.  This increase will
probably average about 100% (the metered tariff would be about US$0.48 per
1,000 US gallons) and further increases of about 50% will probably be required
every two or three years thereafter.



- 24 -
Sewerage Charges
6.13      The new sewerage system is expected to be in partial operation in
FY1978 and a sewerage charge tentatively fixed at 50% of water charges, pend-
ing the outcome of the tariff study, will be levied in that year. HMG has
agreed that in FY1978 it will ensure that WSSB levies a sewerage charge at a
level not less than 50% of water charges and carries out a water and sewer
connection survey.
Standpipe Charges
6.14      It is proposed to meter standpipes within the next two years to
check the consumption of water and this may show a need for a variation in
the monthly charge. This will be studied as part of the tariff study (see
para. 6.09).  Otherwise, no change is proposed at this time.  HIG has agreed
to continue to pay the monthly charge for all standpipes.
Metering
6.15      HMG commenced the metering of connections in FY1971 with the objec-
tive of reducing waste of water. By the end of FY1975 some 2,000 connections
out of a total of some 17,000 had been metered. With the delivery of meters
under the first Project, the metering of connections is now proceeding at a
faster rate--over 2,000 in the second half of FY1976 and WSSB plans to increase
this to 10,000 in FY1977. The metering program will be reviewed when the
tariff study mentioned in para. 6.09 is carried out.
G. Future Finances
6.16      The financial forecasts for WSSB's operations for the period FY1977
to FY1984 are given in Annexes 8, 9 and 10 and the assumptions for these
are shown in Annex 11.  A summary of the projections is shown below:
1977      1978       1979       1981       1984
Total Revenues NRs Millions       5.23       6.51      15.84     30.48      62.68
Net Income (before interest) It 0.70         0.25       5.60      11.64     30.01
Operating Ratio %                63.00      65.00      38.00     29.00      22.00
Rate of Return %                  1.50       0.33       3.53       3.16      4.36
Debt/Equity %                    39.00      55.00      54.00      51.00     44.00
Current Ratio (times)            14.00      10.00       4.00       4.00      4.00
Debt Service Coverage (times)   0.00         0.00       0.00       1.36       1.74
Contribution to Investment %    3.00         2.00      12.00       8.00     20.00
Receivables to Billings %        35.00      30.00      25.00      25.00     25.00
The projections show that during the period FY1977 to FY1984 water connections
will increase by 170% from 24,750 to 67,310, sewer connections will increase



- 25 -
by nearly 500% from 3,000 to 17,000 and water consumption will increase by
180% from 7.68 million m3 to 21.36 million ra3. During the same period there
will be an increase in total revenues from NRs 5.23 million in FY1977 to NRs
62.68 million in FY1984. Net income before interest will improve in the same
perioDd from NRs 0.70 million to NRs 30.01 million. The annual rate of return
on average revalued 1/ net fixed assets in operation is expected to reach 4%
overall in FY1984; this is made up of 6% on water supply assets and a barely
positive rate on sewerage assets.  The unit cost of the sewerage service is
high in relation to the income reasonably recoverable so that this service
is much less financially viable than the water supply service. The overall
rate of return, although low, will only be obtained by large increases in the
charges for the water service and by the imposition of an entirely new charge
for the sewerage service. Receivables are expected to reduce to a level of
25% of billings. WSSB will seek to improve on this but the level is con-
sidered to be prudent for projection purposes.
6.17      Under the first Project WSSB was required to achieve an 8% rate of
return by 1987, however, due to the large project cost increases that target
cannot now be met. It is therefore recommended that the covenant be slightly
modifiecl and -DIG has agreed that it will adjust and maintain WSSB's rates and
charges for water and sewerage services to provide revenues sufficient to meet,
as aE miniimum, all operating costs and depreciation up to FY1978, and to produce
an annual rate of return on the average of revalued net fixed assets of at
least 2% in FY1979 to FY1982, 3% in FY1983, 4% in FY1984, rising to at
least 6% in FY1987 and. thereafter. This will provide sufficient revenues in
FY1984 t-O meet all operating costs and debt service and to meet 20% of invest-
ment which in the circumstances of Nepal isi a satisfactory performance. On
the booi value of assets the equivalent rate of return would be 7-1/2% in
FY1987.
6.18      The financial position of WSSB should be satisfactory during the
project construction period FY1978 to FY1981. At the end of this period
debIt is forecast to be 51% of equity and this would leave an adequate margin
for further borrowing. The current ratio at about 4 times would be more than
adequate and WSSB is expected to have satisfactory liquidity.
6.19      HIMG has agreed that no further debt will be incurred by WSSB without
IDA approval, unless net revenues for the previous year provide debt service
coverage of at least 1.5 times maximum interest and amortization payments in
any future year. This will be adequate.
6.20      HMG intends that WSSB shall take over the water supply assets and
liabilities in Biratnagar and Birganj at the beginning of FY1979.  In view of
WSSB's limited resources the net value of these assets and liabilities will be
treated as a contribution by IR4G to the equity of WSSB. HI4G has agreed that
1/   Assets revalued on the basis of the Nepal Rastra Bank consumers' price
Irdex for Kathmandu



- 26 -
all assets and liabilities of the water supply systems to be taken over in
Biratnagar and Birganj in FY1979 will be vested free of debt in WSSB and a
schedule of the main assets to be transferred to the Board would be published
in the Nepal Gazette before July 15, 1978. HMG has also agreed that the
Kathmandu sewers still in the ownership of the Town Panchayat will be simi-
larly vested in WSSB free of debt.
H. Performance Monitoring
6.21      WSSB is such a new organization that there :is insufficient informa-
tion on financial performance upon which to base a sound judgement. The first
years' financial statements indicate a reasonable level of performance al-
though the progress on system implementation and training has not reached the
level expected at the time of appraisal of the first Project (see para 5.05).
It will be necessary, therefore, to monitor closely the future performance of
WSSB and a project implementation schedule and a list of key indicators for
monitoring purposes is set out in Annex 1, Appendices I and 2.
I. Insurance
6.22      Materials for the project will be insured.  WSSB is owned by HMG
and other risks are not covered by insurance. The insurance market in Nepal
is not broadly based but HMG has agreed that provision for insurance, satis-
factory to IDA will be made.
VII. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with HMG on the following
principal points:
(a)  HMG will provide the funds required to complete the project
and will onlend the proceeds of the IDA crediit to WSSB for
25 years at 9% with a five year grace period on amortization
and no payment of interest in the first five years (para. 6.06);
(b) A tariff study will be carried out by the end of 1977
(para. 6.09);
(c) A sewerage charge of 50% of water charges will start and a
water and sewer connection survey will be carried out in
FY1978 (para. 6.13);
(d) An annual rate of return on the average value of net fixed
assets operated by WSSB will be achieved at a rate of at
least 2% in FY1979 to FY1982, 3% in FY1983, 4% in FY1984
and increasing to at least 6% in FY1987 (para. 6.17); and



- 27 -
(e) WSSB will take over the water supply assets and liabilities
in Biratnagar and Birganj in FY1979, free of debt (para. 6.20).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness for the credit are as follows:
(i) Effectiveness of the agreement amending Development Credit
Agreement 470-NEP to finance the cost overrun on the first
Project (para. 1.01);
(ii) WSSB having employed consultants to carry out the project
(para. 3.13); and
(iii)  The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between HKG and WSSB
(para. 6.06).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$8.0 million on the standard terms.






ANNEX I
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Description of the Project
Introdaction
1.        The proposed project consists of various works in the Kathmandu
Valley and in the towns of Pokhara, Biratnagar and Birganj. In the Kathmandu
Valley and Pokhara, the works are a continuation of the ongoing first water
supply and sewerage project. In Biratnagar and Birganj, the proposed project
is a first step to improving and extending the existing water supply systems,
which for a long time have been inadequate in capacity, extent and quality of
services.
2.        The project components are based on various master plans prepared
by the British consultants, Binnie & Partners, in 1973.  The master plans
for Kathmandu Valley and Pokhara were updated by Engineering Science Inc.,
U.S.A., in late 1974 prior to commencemenit of the final engineering design
for the first project. These master plans generally cover the period through
1985 cr 1987 and since they are already three to four years old, there is a
need to update the plans before the final design of project components. Some
changes proposed by WSSB have been taken into account already in the prepara-
tion cf the proposed project. The various project components for each of
the fcur areas are described below and shown on Maps IBRD 12672 and 12677
to 12680.
Kathmandu Valley
3.        The first Project provides for basic extensions and improvements
to water sources as well as transmission and primary distribution facilities
in the Kathmandu Valley and these are expected to be sufficient till 1987.
Theref'ore, the proposed project includes mainly secondary distribution mains
which will enable WSSB to extend its services to larger areas and improve
sanitation conditions in the area. The rehabilitation of existing leaky
distr:'bution mains and services will be continued in this project. The
need for this has been brought to light by the work of the leak detection
teams under the first Project.
4.        Since there will be better information available after implementa-
tion of the first Project on quantities of water produced and consumed, it
is proposed, that the basic water supply projections would be updated. Also
the configuration of the primary network over a longer period and the neces-
sity of new reservoir capacity must be reviewed when updating the master
plan. Special attention will also be given to future arrangements for water
supply services in semi-urban villages in the valley area.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        The sewerage component in the first project provides for a new
trunk sewer system and sewage treatment facilities which are expected to be
sufficient beyond 1985. Therefore, the proposed project includes only ex-
tensions to collection systems in the northern part of Kathmandu and in
central Lalitpur. The updating of the sewerage master plan will include
extensions to sewage treatment plants and the trunk sewer system.
6.        Bhaktapur, which has its own supply system, is not included in the
proposed project, since the Federal German Government through bilateral aid
is carrying out water supply works in the town. Bhaktapur, however, will be
included in the updating of the master plans.
7.        The following components are included in the proposed project.
Water Supply (Maps, IBRD 12672, 12677 and 12679).
(a)  Rehabilitation of Existing Distribution Mains,: WSSB has been
working on leak detection since the arrival oif the ODM expert
and this has pinpointed the poor state of some pipelines and
the low quality of materials and workmanship used on service
connections which is causing the high rate of water leakage.
Of the pipelines investigated so far, about 10 km need replace-
ment and WSSB proposes to include four km of the most urgent
replacement pipelines ranging from 80 mm to 300 mm in diameter
in this project. It is also planned that 5000 service connec-
tions, 400 standpipes, 500 gate valves and 150 washouts and
air valves will be repaired or replaced simultaneously. The
total value of this is NRs 6.16 million.
(b) New Secondary Mains in Kathmandu and Lalitpur: WSSB has
prepared a proposal for extensions of secondary distribution
mains to meet the increasing demand for new services for
which the number of outstanding applications is at present
1,500. The program provides for construction of about 48
km of pipelines from 80 mm to 150 mm in size. A sum of
about NRs 15.72 million is provided in the project.
(c) Water supply to villages in the fringe areas of Kathmandu
and Lalitpur: Altogether 10 new villages with an estimated
total population of 40,000 are proposed for connecting to
the water supply system. Six of these, namely, Edol,
Dhapakhel, Hari Siddhi, Sano Gaon, Tikathali-Datti and
Ochu form one system along the new distribution main which
will consist of a link between the Muldole scheme and the
Lalitpur network being constructed in the first project.
Two villages, Bungamati and Khokana, will obtajin water
from the Pharping transmission line and two others, Panga
and Kirtipur, from the new main connecting the transmission
lines of the Doodpokhari and Lokhot schemes. New lines,
ranging from 80 mm to 200 mm in size, will have a total
length of 29 km and will cost NRs 6.02 million. Supplies
in the early years will be mainly through standpipes.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(d) Distribution Network Extension in Bode/Thimi: The newly
constructed well in Bode will provide ample water and the
extension of the distribution system with replacement of
some old, badly leaking mains is very necessary. The work
will involve the construction of 6.5 km of mains, varying in
sizes from 80 mm to 200 mm and the total cost will be NRs 1.80
million. Standpipe supplies will be supplemented by metered
connections in the proposed project.
(e) Service Reservoir: The existing leaking reservoi5 at Bode will
be replaced with a new service reservoir of 500 m . This will
probably be constructed near the site of the existing one and
the cost will be NRs 0.70 million.
Sewerage (Map IBRD 12678).
(f) The proposed sewerage component consists of extensions of
collector sewers in the most densely populated core areas
of Kathmandu and Lalitpur. Sewers vary from 200 mm to 500 mm
in size and have a total length of nine km. Total construc-
tion cost is estimated to be NRs 9.96 million. The work will
also include minor drainage works related to the construction
of sewer lines in four separate localities.
8.        WSSB proposes to construct a new service reservoir, 2,000 m  in
volume, at Bansbari, adjacent to the transmission line of the Bir Dhara Scheme.
The e3timated cost is NRs 2.26 million. It has not yet been shown that this
reservoir is absolutely necessary for the operation of the particular supply
zone and this will be subject to justification when updating the master plan
for water supply. The construction cost of the reservoir is not included in
the project cost because of limited funds available, but if the construction
is justified a corresponding reduction could be made in the allocation of
funds to network extensions.
9.        The supply capacity of the system in the Kat mandu Valley, after
completion of the first Project will be about 71,000 m /day which is estimated
to be sufficient3till 1987.  Eotal storage capacity after the first Project
will be 11,000 m to 17,000 m depending on whether the existing Maharajgunj
and Mahankal Chaur reservoirs can be kept in operation after recent repair
work. This will give a total reservoir volume of at least 20% and 17% of the
maximum day demand in 1980 and 1985 respectively, which is considered to be
sufficient in a system where over 60% of supply is by gravity.
10.       The extended distribution system will serve more than 36,000 water
connections and 1,400 standpipes. The total number of sewer connections is
expected to be about 11,000.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Pokhara
11.       The first Project provides for increasing the water sources and
reinforcing the primary network in the core area of Pokhara. WSSB proposes
to extend the secondary transmission network, since sources are estimated to
be sufficient almost up to 1985 and has prepared a program consisting of two
priority categories. Production meters will be installed in the transmission
lines in the first Project and on the basis of improved data the water supply
projections will be updated and recommendation for future sources made. Con-
figurations of the network will be reviewed in line with the latest development
of the town and corresponding modifications to the sewerage master plan will
be made.
12.       The following components are included in the proposed project (Map,
IBRD 12679):
(a) Extension of the Secondary Distribution Network: The project
covers only the first priority of WSSB's proposal consisting
of 11 km of pipelines of 80 mm and 100 mm. The total construc-
tion cost is estimated at NRs 2.72 million. The demand for
new services is high and the number of outstanding service
applications is 700.
(b) Bindhabasini Reservoir: Since the repair of the existing
reservoir is beyond reasonable cost, it is proposed that a
new service reservoir will be constructed3at the same site.
The reservoir will have a volume of 500 m and the esti-
mated construction cost is NRs 0.70 million. The existing
reservoir will be demolished.
13.       The total volume of service reservoirs in Pokhara will be 950 m
after completion of the proposed project which will be less than 15% of the
peak-day demand after 1981. The necessity for additional storage capacity
will be studied in more detail while updating the water supply master plan.
14.       The extended distribution system will serve about 3,000 water con-
nections and about 200 standpipes.
Biratnagar
15.       The scope of the project will provide for increased source capacity,
reinforcement and extension of the distribution system, as well as general
improvements to water supply operations. The planned time for takeover of
operations by WSSB is July 1978. It has been established that some develop-
ments have taken place in the town of Biratnagar since the water supply master
plan was prepared. Therefore, the plan must be updated before commencing the
final design of the project components in respect of extent and configuration
of the supply network, basic projections and the location and dimensioning of
new wells. In particular, groundwater investigations should be instituted
immediately after Credit approval. Corresponding modifications to the
sewerage master plan will also be made.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
16.       The following components are included in the project (Map, IBRD
12680).
(a)  Improvements to the Existing Tubewell Scheme:  The existing
pumphouse will be lodified to improve ventilation, a new
pumpset of 3,000 m /day will be supplied and installed
with spares, and a new chlorination station with a store
will be constructed. The estimated cost is NRS 0.31 million.
(b) New Tubewell Scheme: The consultants recommended the drilling
of two new tubewells near the old airfield, but the location
of the wells will be finally decided on the basis of further
investigations when updating the master plan. The preliminarily
designed scheme fill consist of two tubewells with submersible
pumps of 4,200 m /day each, pumphouses for wells, 700 m of
transmission pipes 250 mm in size and a chlorination station
with store. The estimated cost is NRs 1.69 million.
(c) Extension of Distribution Network: The proposal is based on
the consultant's plan and consists of about 24 km of pipelines
in diameters of 100 mm to 350 mm and 10 km of pipes for sec-
ondary mains sizes 50 mm and 80 mm. The cost estimate for this
is NRs 9.23 million. The demand for new water services is
high and the number of outstanding applications is 500 at
present.
I'd)  Water Tower:  An elevated water tank of 500 m  is proposed
for construction at the new tubewell site. The cost estimate
is NRs 0.92 million.
(e) Staff Quarters and Other Buildings: It is proposed to erect
pump operators' quarters at the new tubewell site and
reconstruct quarters at the existing tubewell site. WSSB
also proposes to construct a building for a laboratory and
an office.  The total cost provided in the project is
limited to NRs 0.45 million.
17.       After cSmpletion of the project the total production capacity will
be about 11,400 m /day.  This is expected to meet the peak-day demand till 1983
if th,- projections fol ow the predicted high assumption.  Total reservoir
capacity will be 950 m which is small when compared with the projected peak-
day demand beyond 1980. In order to minimize the risk of discontinuation
of supply in case of pump break-down, necessary spares are provided in the
project. Additional storage capacity should be considered for future phases
in orler to meet a reasonable standard of supply in case of electricity
failure.
18.       The system is estimated to serve over 3,500 service connections and
200 standpipes.



ANNEX I
Page 6
Birgani
19.       The project includes improvements to the existing tubewell schemes
and extensions to the distribution system. The planned time for takeover of
water supply operations by WSSB is July 1978. During the visit to Birganj,
the mission identified new developments which have taken place since the
master plan was prepared. The town Panchayat is planning extensions of resi-
dential areas at present and the water supply master plan must be updated
before commencing the final design of the project components. Necessary
modifications to the sewerage master plan will also be made.
20.       The following components are included in the project proposal (Map,
IBRD 12680):
(a) Improvements to the Existing Tubewell Schemes: Consultants
have recommended some modifications and extensions which will
improve the operational efficiency and soundness of the tube-
wells. The following items are included in the project:
(i) Adarsa Nagar; chlorination station and store;
(ii) Birganj; overhauling of the existing pump and supply
of spares, modification of the pumphouse ventilation,
chlorination station and store, ground reservoir of
500 m for chlorination 3and storage, and a delivery
pump station of 6,000 m /day. The estimated cost of
the above improvements is NRs 1.13 million.
(b)  Extension of Distribution Network:  The proposal is based on
the consultant's plan and consists of about six km of distri-
bution mains from 100 mm to 250 mm and 21 km of pipes for
secondary lines varying in size from 50 mm to 80 mm. The
cost estimate for this is NRs 6.08 million. The number of
outstanding service applications is only 50 but the new
development areas presently being planned are expected
to be fully built-up in 3 to 5 years and demand for new
services will increase.
21.       WSSB proposes the construction of staff quarters and a laboratory
building at an estimated cost of NRs 0.44 million. Since facilities in
Birganj are reasonably sufficient when compared with, for instance, Biratnagar,
these are proposed for inclusion in a future project and no provision is made
now.
22.       The existing production capacity is expected to mSet the peak-day
demand till 1987. Total reservoir capacity will be 1,400 m which will be
over 15% of the peak-day demand.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
23.       The extended system is estimated to serve about 2,700 connections
and about 150 standpipes.
Land Acquisition
24.       The project includes a provision for crop compensation and acquisi-
tion of new well sites in Biratnagar at a cost of NRs 0.45 million. The re-
servo:Lrs in Pokhara and Bode are expected to be constructed at the existing
sites.
VehicLes, Tools and Equipment
25.       WSSB will need more operational vehicles as it expands its functions.
Six trucks, four jeep-type vehicles, 10 motorcycles and 50 bicycles are in-
cluded in the project. Tools and equipment such as pipe cutters, tapping
machines, pipe testing equipment, waste detection equipment, office machines,
etc. are also included in the project. A provision of NRs 2.00 million is
made for these items and the details will be decided when updating the master
plans.
Water Connections
26.       The expected total number of house service connections will be about
45,000 by the end of FY1981 in the towns and villages included in the Project.
All of these connections are expected to be metered. The first Project pro-
vides for domestic water meters and materials for 13,000 connections. A
provision of NRs 7.63 million is made in the proposed project for meters and
fittings for an additional 27,000 connections. About 1,000 existing, metered
connections, 40% of the total, are in good condition and do not require re-
placement. The balance of about 4,000 connections will be provided from WSSB's
own resources by 1981.
T rai_ing
27.       The training of the technical staff will mainly be carried out by
on-the-job training under the supervision of the ODM team. This applies
especially to plant, pump station and reservoir operators who will be trained
in operating the treatment plants and distribution facilities. WSSB is ob-
taining, in addition to the water production superintendent, a chemist-
bacteriologist from ODM. It has also been decided that WSSB should apply for
a trainer in distribution operations and maintenance from ODM, since the
contracts of the metering and leak detection experts will expire in 1977.
During the first Project the above ODM team has successfully trained WSSB's
operational staff in metering and rehabilitation of service connections and
distribution mains as well as in waste-prevention. This staff will be used
during the second project in developing the same activities in the new project
areas under the supervision of the trainer from ODM. A provision of NRs 0.1
mill:Lon is made in the project for the supply of necessary materials such as
textbooks and films. The vehicles and equipment as detailed in paragraph 25
will also be used, in part, for training purposes.



ANNEX I
Page 8
Consulting Services
28.       The consulting services include updating of master plans for various
project towns, detailed design of the project components, preparation of
tender documents and supervision of the construction work. The provision for
updating the master plans including groundwater investigations in Biratnagar
is NRs 8.86 million and for detailed design and supervision NRs 6.26 million.
Broad outlines of the consulting services are described in the paragraphs
above, town by town. It is proposed that WSSB's staff will be responsible
for a part of the final design which is still to be decided. A provision
of NRs 1.25 million is included in the project for a tariff study which is
described in paragraph 6.09 of the main report. Consulting services include
also the preparation of Feasibility Studies for six provincial towns expected
to be as follows: Hetauda, Dharan, Janakpur, Nepalganj, Bhairawa and Butwal.
The total population of these towns is about 170,000, Dharan being the biggest
with a population of over 40,000. The provision for feasibility studies is NRs
1.75 million.
Construction of the Project
29.       Cost estimates are based on unit rates obtained from the recent
tenders for the first Project. Estimates were prepared by WSSB and reviewed
by the mission. The base cost is at January 1977. Designs are only at a
preliminary stage but as construction conditions are reasonable, moderate
physical contingencies have been used as follows; pipelines 10% to 20%,
source works 20%, reservoirs 15% to 20% and equipment supplies 10%. Cost
estimates will be revised in the course of master plan updating.
30.       Most of the contracts will be subject to international competitive
bidding. The installation of water and sewer connections and minor drainage
works may be carried out by force account as part of the project. The cost
estimates are detailed in Annex 2 and the construction schedule is shown in
Annex 4. The main actions and target dates are presented in the implementa-
tion schedule in Appendix 1 and monitoring indicators in Appendix 2.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
ACTION                                            BY         DATE
1. Agreed During Negotiations
(a) Employment of consultants etc. for:
(i) master plan updating and second project
(ii) feasibility studies
(iii) tariff study (see Attachment 1)
(b) Land acquisition timetable (see Attachment 2)
(c) Timetable for bid document preparation, review,
advertising and letting (see Attachment 3)
2.  Pro_ject Implementation
(a)  Agree sewage charge                                         WSSB/Bank  6/15/77
(b) Application to obtain a technical assistance
laboratory expert by December 1977                          WSSB        6/30/77
(c) Application to obtain a technical assistance
system operations and maintenance trainer by
December 1977                                                 "           "
(d)  Introduce sewage charge                                                 7/16/77
(e)  Start water and sewage connection survey                      "      
(f) Subsidiary loan agreement signed (condition for
credit effectiveness)                                       WSSB/HMG   7/31/77
(g) Arrangements made for continuation of technical
assistance financial advice                                 WSSB        8/31/77



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
Implementation
ACTION                                            BY        DATE
(h)  Agree planning and design schedule                          WSSB/Bank 9/30/77
(i) Propose a program of overseas, local and inhouse
training to the Bank                                        WSSB         "
(j)  Arrangements made for start of technical assistance
laboratory expert                                            "      
(k) Arrangements made for start of technical assistance
water systems operations and maintenance trainer             "
(1)  Agreement on revised construction schedule                  WSSB/Bank 10/31/77
(m)  Proposals for tariff for FY1979 to the Bank                 WSSB       4/15/78



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Attachment 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Timetable for Consulting Action
BY            DATE
1.  Propose shortlist of consultants to Bank                          WSSB          3/31/77
2. Draft: Terms of Reference and Notice of Invitation to
consultants for:
(i) Master plan updating and second project
(ii) Feasibility studies
(iii) Tariff study
Sent to Bank for review                                           WSSB          4/15/77
3.  Invit:e consultants to make proposals                             WSSB          4/30/77
4.  Receive proposals                                                 WSSB          5/31/77
5.  Submit recommendation to Bank                                     WSSB          6/21/77
6.  Appo:int consultants                                              WSSB          7/31/77



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Attachment 2
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
TimzEtable for Land Acquisition
A. Purchase of Land
Access to site for      Gazette
investigations          notice
1.  New well sites in Biratnagar               9/77                4/78
B. Temporary Access
Survey of land          Notice on
owners                  compensation
2. Kathmandu Valley
(i)  Water mains                          9/77                4/78
(ii)  Sewer lines                          3/78               10/78
3. Pokhara
Water mains                          9/77                4/78
4. Biratnagar
Water mains                          9/77                4/78
5. Birganj
Water mains                          9/77                4/78



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Attachment 3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Timetable for Bid Letting
Bid
Documents
Review      Advertising   Bids Close   Letting
Meters, connections and fittings                4/77           5/77          7/77         8/77
Biratnagar wells drilling                       4/78           5/78          9/78        10/78
Screens and casing supply                       5/78           6/78          9/78        10/78
Pumps and chIorinators civil works              5/78           6/78         10/78        11/78
Pumps and chlorinators supply                   5/78           6/78         10/78        11/78
Pipes distribution supply                       6/78           7/78         11/78        12/78
Vehicles, etc..                                 6/78           7/78         11/78        12/78
Reservoirs                                      9/78          10/78          2/79         3/79
Pipes distrilbution lay                         1/79           2/79          6/79         7/79
Buildings                                       4/79           5/79          9/79        10/79
Sewer civil works and pipes                    12/78           1/79          6/79         7/79



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
MNITOROIG INDICATORS
YEAR TO JULY 15                    1Q75        1976       1977        1978        1979       1980        1981        19sa        1983        1984
POPULATION AND POPULATI-- 8ERVED
POPULATIONmooofs                  495,0'    i469,00       484,00      499,00     680,00      701.00      723,OU      827,00     $51,00      875,00
POPUJ.TION WITr  WATER-oOO'S   398,25    1104,34          432,27      439,47     519,14      960,76      S90,87      653,83     693,89      734,65
POPULATION SERVED- SEW.-OOO'S   127 .00        27 00       27 .00      42. 50      56 .00     67 .50      77 .00      91 .00      97 .50    102 .00
% WITH  WATER                       87.93      A6,21       89,31      8a,07       79,29       79,99       81,72       79 06       81,54       83,98
X SCRVED SY STAND-POSTS            694,30       14,69      51,60       46,80      41,99       42,54       4t,63       40.12       39,81       39,52
X SERVED SEWERAGE                    5. 93      5 .76       5 .58       8 .52       8 .24      9 .63      1 0.65      11 .00      11 .46       1 .66
DEMAND
CONNECTIONSe WATER - OOO'S          18,15       18,99      ? 24,79     29,99       39,17      45,80       50,46       56,04       61,60       67,31
CONNECTIONS-SEWER-OOO'S              3 0(0      3,00        3,00        5O00       7,00        9,00       11.o0       15,00       15,00       17,00
CONSUMPTION.MILLToN 3                b6o2       6,22        7,68        8,99       12.22      14,25       15,53       17,34       19,66       21,36
CONSUMPTION/CONN/ MS/MONTH          27,62      27,34       2, 85       29S01      26,00       29,81       29,64       25,78       26,60       26,44
X UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER            900,00      0, 00      90,00      '47,00       45,00      40,00       38,00       36,00       34.00       32,00
PRODUCTIONoMILLION  M3              12,03      12,43       15,36       16,96      22,22       23,75       25 ,05      2796        29,79       31,41
PER CAPITA PRODUCTIONULCD           82.77      A4,25       97,34      10o9.74    lt2,93      116,o2      116.13      117,17      117,62      117,09
ADMINISTRATION
EMPLOYEES PER iOO0 CONNECT          30;3(      33,91       31,72       30,55       29.087     29,611      29,13       29,98       29,06       28,23
COSTS
EXCHANGE RATE i¶S8  u               10toI0     12,90       12,50       12,50       12,50      12,q9       12,50       12,50       12,50       12,50
_ATII4 CO0T$*14ILLION             1,A7                   3,s0  3416  f.4        6,06        7,19        9,02        9,55       11,81       1
CO@T UUS SoNN!CTtON/MONTH            o,aJ       0 o,18      0,          oq4         1[83        1,086      1,I         1,11        1,29        1,35
REVENUES
S. ccc...
OPERATING REVENUFS.M?LLZON           ?,23       4,24       5s23         4,51       15,84      18,89       30,47       34,11       54,58       62,68
AVERAGE REVENUPS US$/-'M3            o,04       0,O          ,Os        0,08 0010               0,11       0.16        0,16        0,22        0,23      . 
S INCREASE IN TARIFFS                          47,69        7,47       18,04      111,17        4,76      58.21        0,48       46,44        6,48
FINAJCIAL RATIOS
X RATE Ot RETURN                    "2,3()      0,73        1,49        0,33        3,93        1,78       3,15        2,43        4,75        4,36
S OPERATING RATIO BEFORE DEP.    83,89         95,99       62,73       64,94       38,26      38,98       29,59       28,96       21,65       21,7"
DEBT SERVICE RATTI                   0.00        0.00       0.0 0         .00       0 .00       3,13        1.36       1,58        1,62        1,74
X RECEIVABLES TO BILLING            42,89      36,93       35,00       30,00       25,00      25,00       25,00       25,00       25,00       25,00
X DEBT/(DE9T+FQUITY)                14,P5       17,99      39,50       94,97       514.29     91,64       I1,42       47,58       45,76       44,07
CURRENT RATIO (TnEM)                29,35       11.S4      14,22       10,32        3,64        3,00        3 .67      2,54        2,03        3,56



ANNEX 2
NT E P A L
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPt1PLY AllD SERAGE PROJECT
ProJect Cost &stiJsates
Local Costs, in 1is x 10 3                       Foreign Costs, in NLs x 10 3
Total                                               Total
Local                                              Foreign
Years to July 15                       1978      1979    1980       1981      Costs      1978       1979      1980      1981      Costs       Total
WATER SUPPLY
Sources                                 60    1,130         -         -    1,190          272      1 670         -        -    1,942        3,132
Distribution Pipelines                   -    2,656   13,284      9,426   25,366            -    11,779     7,068     3,5L2   22,359       47,725
Reservoirs                               -       508      848       338     1 694           -        252      377         -       689       2,323
Water Connect:Lons                     305       458      458       305    1,526        1,220      3,052    1,831         -    6,103        7,629
Vehicles, Too:Ls & Equipment             -       421      180         -       60i           -       841       562         -    1,403        2,004
Staff Quarters, etc.                     -         -      284       L21      405            -       -          32        13        45         450
Sub-total                          365     5,173   15,054    10,190    30,782       1,492     17,594    9,870     3,525    32,481      63,263
SEWERAGE
Extension of Sewerage Network
in Kathiandu *ind Lalitpur               -       284    2,837     2,552     5,673           -       644     3,004       643    4,291        9,964
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                    59       879   2,813      2,110    -5,861         225     2,703     1,915       788     5,631      11,492
Sub-Total                          424    6,336   20,704    14,852    42,316        1,717    20,941    14,789     4,956    42,403      84,719
C'.S=ING SERVICES                      1,087     1,903   1,631        816    5,437       2,538      4,441     3,806     1,903    12,688      18,L25
LAND                                       -       450        -         -       450           -         -                   -         -         Iso
TRAICNG                                    -        25       50        25      100           _          _         _         _                   100
WSSB's ADMIDTSIRATION                    290       375      435       500    1,600           -          -                   _         _       1,600
Sub-total                        1,801     9,o89   22,820    16,193    49,903       4,255     25,382    18,595    6,859    55,091     104,994
PRICE COTIDIGEDCIES                     184     1,933    7,515     7,238    16,870        436      5,399    6,123      3,066    15,024      31,894
Total Project Costs (excluding
Daties and Taxes)              1,985    11,022   30,355     23,L31   66,773      b4691     30,781    24,713     9,925    70,115     136-9388
buties and Taxes                   176     1,203    1,702     1,111    4,192            -          -      I           _         _       4,192
t0TAL P10JET COSTS (inclu&dng
Buties and Taxes)                 2,161     12,225  32,03     24,542   70,965    -4,691    30,781    24,718        9,925    70,115 1_1,0_0



ANNEX 3
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                          Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                        at end of Quarter
and Quarter                              US$ 000                       Percentage
1978
First                                        100                             1.2
Second                                       200                             2.5
Third                                        300                             3.7
Fourth                                       500                             6.2
1979
First                                      1,000                            12.5
Second                                     1,500                            18.7
Third                                      2,000                            25.0
Fourth                                     3,000                            37.5
1980
First                                      4,000                            50.0
Second                                     5,000                            62.5
Third                                      5,500                            68.7
Fourth                                     6,000                            75.0
1981
First                                      6,500                            81.2
Second                                     7,000                            87.5
Third                                      7,300                            91.2
Fourth                                     7,600                            95.0
1982
First                                      7,700                            96.2
Second                                     7,800                            97.5
Third                                      7,900                            98.7
Fourth                                     8,000                           100.0



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
.      _   _          _                                            FY 1977                           FY 1978                                     FY 1979                                       FY 1980                                        FY 1981                                 FY1982
PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                             1977                                         1978                                          1979                                         1980                                           1991
| CivilWorks:CsorinatinnStatiollF PumpHuwTh A  -1  Ti                                 I  l i Of N     - -.|__  ...........77.            .. N. I. ... j L-- IM    . As MI J  - I I   I   I 01NI DI        M                                                         I JI JAI SI  I1N
WATER SUPPLY
Su,ppy  of Well Screes  nd Csig Pipes
Su,p .f We P-p, Chlo-o  Equip-er.  Ts-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1
misonad Sir,Pping SPares                                                                                                               . ...  .. .
Pipin,C' Chlorin-tior Ta-kic and min  m_ji.t-i                                                                               _ cio
v  - igsqi pamphoase.
-~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Conserunsiend Aciite @oecOr  0c Sodeihimi
Pokh-ra and Bira-nasan
Sopply of Pipes and firrieq...........
-Pipelayng
-Supply nf Mnrsr andfing
Vehicle, Ugoipnrtn -d Tnols.                                                                                                                  .  ....           r
C--tCosrcin  of ssuff q-a-srs offic and
SEWERAGE
S-Wneg Enstn-ons in t airiid.i -nd L,alirpo.. .. .
CONSULTING SERVICES
F-oibililn Studi- and Tarff Reody
LANS ACQUISITION
ACTIVITIESCOTA S
..                     Socomons.prepaT- a-ion                                              CONTRCTS'-
Eeedteing                                                          -
-nieyneOar  solE Sopply C-nre-cr
World uefa -18731



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PRCOJECT
Existing Water Supply and Sewerage Facilities
1.        General data and existing water supply and sewerage systems for each
of the project towns are described below. The locations of the towns are
shown on the Map IBRD 12629.
Kathmandu, Lalitpur and Bode/Thimi (Kathmandu Valley)
WATER SUPPLY (Maps, IBRD 12672, 12677 and 12679)
2.        Kathmandu Valley water supply systems include the towns of Kathmandu
and Lalitpur, the adjoining village Panchayats and some semi-urban villages in
the fringe areas of these towns. The Bode/Thimi area, including Nagadesh village
and the town of Bhaktapur, are also in the Kathmandu Valley and have their
own supply systems.
3.        The valley is a roughly circular basin of a total catchment of 607
square km. Kathmandu and Lalitpur towns lie west of center, by the Bagmati,
the main river of the valley. Bode/Thimi and Bhaktapur are about six and
nine kilometers respectively, east of Kathmandu.
4.        Water supply to the towns and villages of Kathrnandu Valley is from
perennial springs, run of the river abstractions and welLs. Kathmandu is
1,280 m above sea level, and the surrounding hills rise t:o about 2,000 m
with a maximum height of 2,760 m. Snow storage does not occur in significant
quantities, and the June/September monsoon provides most of the 1,740 mm mean
annual rainfall. Due to the monsoon regime there is a long recession in
spring flows leading to a minimum flow in April and May of the following
year. Groundwater development in the valley, for public purposes, has
earlier been unsuccessful, but on the basis of hydrogeological studies in
recent years this source is being explored further.
5.        Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Bhaktapur and Bode/Thimi in the valley are
supplied with water from seven schemes with fourteen sources at present.
Details are as follows:
(a) run-of-the-river abstraction from two spring-fed streams
supplies the Bir Dhara scheme serving north Kathmandu;
(b) run-of-the-river abstraction from five spring-fed streams
supplies the Tri Bhim Dhara scheme serving northwest Kathmandu;



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(c)  a spring supplies the Lokhot scheme serving Kirtipur and
the Rabi Bhawan area of southern Kathmandu;
(d)  three spring-fed streams discharging through the trailrace
of a hydroelectric power statiLon supply the Sundarijal
scheme serving northeast Kathmandu;
(e)  a spring supplies the Doodpokhari scheme serving Lalitpur;
(f)  run-of-the-river abstraction from the Bagmati River supplies
the Sundarighat scheme serving Lalitpur; and
(g)  a single spring-fed stream, the Mahadev Khola scheme, supplies
Bhaktapur.
In addition to these sources the ongoing first Project is providing new tubewells
at Bode, Bansbari and Balaju and spring and tubewell sources at Pharping.
WSSB has also recently constructed a small spring scheme at Muldole.
6.        From hydrological studies made for over a year and analysis of
scanty records, the consultants have estimated the yield from the existing
water sources. The estimated water production from each of the sources is
also shown bracketed in the following table. This is based on treatment
plant or pipeline capacity when the daily flow is either the minimum average
for the year or that exceeded for 85% of the time.
Daily minimum flow in       Daily flow exceeds
Average       One Year   50% of   75%    85% of
Year          in Ten      Time  of Time   Time
-------/sec-----------------
A. Springs & Streams
Bir Dhara  Scheme                    (23)                                   (23)
Intake No. 1                10               7         53      24    16
Intake No. 2                23              15        120      53    37
Tri Bhim Dhara Scheme         35    (32)      23        181      80    56  (52)
Lokhot             "           6    ( 6)       5          9        7     6  ( 6)
Sundarijal         "         208   (203)    162         949     410   336 (205)
Doodpokhari        "?         23    (21)      21         44      29    25  (23)
Mahadev Khola      "          29    (29)      19        100      69    46  (46)
B.   Bagmati River /a
Sundarighat      "                  9)     -                          9  ( 9)
Total for Kathmandu Valley        334   (323)                               531 (364)
/a   No reliable flow records.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Water Production, Transmission and Reservoirs
t.        Except for the one scheme at Sundarighat which is based upon a river
source and which requires pumping, all other schemes are based upon spring
sources and provide gravity supplies. Description of the various schemes is
as follows:
(a) Bir Dhara Scheme
Intake No. I on th1e spring-fed Mahadev Khola consists of a small
masonry dam and irtake cLkilei   A cast iron pipeline 8.4 km long and 125
and 200 mm in duameter 1-i"    ib59, conveys raw water from this intake to the
Maharajgunj treatiaent' Ve     and reservoir serving north Kathmandu.  Both the
intake chamber and pipeliae, which has five break-pressure tanks, are leaking
badly.  Intake No. 2 on the spring-fed Bishnumati Khol  is similar to intake
No. 1. The raw water is cornveyed by a 1.4 km spun iron pipeline of 150 mm
diameter laid in a second stage built in 1960, and connected to break pressure
tank No. 4.  A nepw transLission pipeline, 6.4 km long and 200 mm in diameter,
was constructed in 1975 to convey additional water available at the source.
Maharajgunj water treatment plant, built in 1961, is of conventional design
with lime and alum dosing, flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and chlori-
nation. The desian has se- eral unsatisfactory features, and there is room
for improvement in the operation of the plant which is carried out by
untrained staff. The rated output of the plant is 31.4 1/sec. The consul-
tants have listed extensive remedial work to increase plant efficiency, but are
of the opinion that the piaat should be replaced with a new plant sited at
Bansbari. Minor improvemenits are to be implemented in the first Project. The
raw water from both Ih:ulas !/ is typical of most of the surface waters in the
valley; polluted and s_.  eftil low concentrations of dissolved salts and
increased turbidity and color during the monsoon.  Situated 3near the plant is
the service reservoir with an effective capacity of 4,890 m and top water
level (TWL) 1,328.5 m. The single-compartment, 80-year old reservoir has a
leakage of about 3 1/sec. As it is in continuous service and interruptions
to supply cannot be tolerated at this time, WSSB has proposed to include a new
reservoir at Bansbari in the proposed project. On completion of this project
the question of abandoning >1aharajgunj plant will be decided.
(b) Tri Bhim Dhara Schemtn
With the difference that it has three more spring sources and was
first built in 1930, this scheme is similar in concept and in the same poor
condition as the Bir Dhara scheme. Raw water from three intakes at Allye,
Boude and Bnriive, on .ni ag-fed tributaries of the Bishnumati Khola, is
conveyed to the Balaju water treatment plant by a poorly laid, badly main-
tained and unprotected steel and cast iron pipeline system totalling 11.5
km of diameters varying from 100 to 300 mm. Two other pipelines, of 6.7
km and 7.4 km, also convey raw water to Balaju from intakes on spring-fed
1/   Streams.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
tributaries of the IColpu Khola at Chahare and Panchmane. The Chahare pipe-
line is of cast iron throughout, 125 and 150 mm in diameter. Though it is
also poorly laid and in need of maintenance it is, by comparison, in a reason-
able condition. The Panchmane pipeline, partly of 125 and 150 mm diameter
cast iron, and partly of 150 mm diameter asbestos, is also in a poor condi-
tion. Balaju water treatment plant, completed in 1960, designed to treat
water from the five sources and rated at 126 1/sec, has some design deficien-
cies. There is room for improvement in the operation of the plant and as at
Maharajgunj, the plant is operated by untrained staff. Raw water quality is
almost similar to that of the Bir Dhara scheme and the treatment process
includes dosing with alum and lime, flocculation, sedimentation, rapid-gravity
filtration, and chlorination. The consu'Ltants'proposals for correcting the
design deficiencies and training of plant operators have been accepted by WSSB
and improvements are to be implemented in the first Project.  Bal ju service
reservoir supplying northwest Kathmandu has a capacity of 3,690 m  and a
TWL 1,352.4 m, which is higher than the Maharajgunj service reservoir by 23.9
m. Leakage from the reservoir is negligible, but appreciable quantities are
lost from the adjoining supply pipework.
(c) Lokhot Scheme
Limestone springs at Lokhot, to the southwest of Kathmandu, supply
the villages of Kirtipur and Rabi Bhawan, an elevated area in Kathmandu, and a
number of communities living on the transmission pipeline. From a small col-
lecting chamber a 4.1 km galvanized iron 100 mm diameter pipeline supplies
Kirtipur and continues as a 75 mm diameter pipeline for another 3.4 km to
supply Rabi Bhawan. Some parts of the pipeline are damaged and it is often
broken by local farmers. The water is of good quality, non-corrosive and only
requ-res disinfection. The 100 mm pipeline has a capacity of 8 1/sec, and the
75 mm pipeline has a capacity of 6 1/sec, equal to the annual average minimum
flow from the springs. There is no service reservoir or chlorination. WSSB
has accepted the consultant's recommendations to make improvements to the
source and provide for chlorination.
(d) Sundarijal Scheme
The headwaters of the Bagmati River and two tributaries are stored
in a pond, and released to generate hydroelectric power at Sundarijal hydro-
electric power plant on the northeast rim of the valley. Water from the tail-
race is led to a balancing reservoir for treatment in the adjacent Sundarijal
water treatment plant. The quality of the raw water is almost similar to
that of the Bir Dhara sources. Sundarijal water treatment plant, completed
:in 1966, is rated to treat about 227 l/sec. At the present time output is
about 203 I/sec in dry weather and 205 1/sec for 85% of the time. The plant
is conservatively designed with prelimirnary sedimentation, aeration, dosing
with alum and lime, vertical flow sedimentation, rapid-gravity filtration and
chlorination. The plant is in good condition and some minor improvements and



ANNEX 5
Page 5
a major modification have been recommended by the consultants to increase
the capacity of the plant to 248 1/sec, equivalent to the carrying capacity
of the transmission pipeline. WSSB has accepted for inclusion in the first
Project some of the minor improvements which should increase output slightly,
and also improve the quality of the treated water. An 8.5 km cast iron
transmission pipeline, 500 mm diameter, conveys treated,water from the
Sundarijal plant to Mahankal Chaur reservoir of 4,640 m- serving northeast
Kathmandu. The pipeline is generally in good condition and with proposed
improvements, which includes stabilization of the treated water, should remain
free from corrosion. Mahankal Chaur service reservoir with TWL 1,338.1 m was
seriously leaking through cracks in the masonry walls and mass concrete floor,
but this has been reduced to a reasonable level by repair work. Two additional
storage tanks of 2,000 m3 each are being constructed in the first Project.
(e) Doodpokhari Scheme
Doodpokhari springs were first developed for domestic water supply
in 1896. The springs issue from limestone outcrops in the hills 6 km south-
west of Lalitpur. Subsurface pipes collect the water in a well which is con-
nected by a 2.8 km cast iron pipeline, 15 mm in diameter, to a reservoir at
Bhajangal. The reservoir provides 810 m of balancing storage at TWL 1,358 m,
and is a convenient point for disinfection with chloride of lime. Though the
raw water is slightly hard, with low turbidity, it is not aggressive with a
pH of about 8.1. Only traces of iron and small concentrations of manganese
have been noted, but there is suspicion of pollution. The source requires
protection, and chlorination has to be made more efficient. No other treat-
ment is required. Bhajangal reservoir is in good condition with negligible
leakage. A 2.8 km trunk distribution pipeline 225 mm in diameter conveys
water from the reservoir to Lalitpur. Some improvements are recommended by
the consultants for this scheme and are included in the first Project.
(f) Sundarighat Scheme
This is the only run-of-the-river pumped scheme in the valley, and
is also the newest having been commissioned in April 197.[. The intake works
consist of two 30 m long slotted screen pipes 100 mm and 150 mm in diameter,
laid 2 m below the Bagmati riverbed, and connected to a 4 m diameter welded
steel sump near the western river bank. A pumping station situated on the
river bank, equipped for pumping both raw and treated walter, lifts water to
an adjacent treatment plant. About 2.4 km upstream of the intake is the
confluence of the Bagmati River with the Bishnumati Khola, in downtown
Kathmandu, and 1.6 km downstream of the intake the Bagmat:i River flows
through the deep Chobar Gorge. All surface and subsurface water from a
greater part of the valley must pass through Chobar Gorge, and as may be
expected, the river is highly polluted at Sundarighat, especially by raw



ANNEX 5
Page  6
sewage discharged into the Bishnumati Khc,la and the Bagmati River at
Kathmandu. The water is, however, not difficult to treat to acceptable
standards. Sundarighat treatment plant was designed to treat 32 1/sec, but
on the advice of the consultants, will be down rated to about 12 1/sec. The
treatment process provides for prechlorination, dosing with alum and lime,
flocculation, horizontal flow sedimentation and slow sand filtration. The
down rating of the plant will reduce filtration rates from 0.40 m  per hour
per square meter 1/ to 0.15 m  per hour per square meter 2/, more suitable
for slow sand filtration.  The consultants have also recommended discon-
tinuing prechlorination and alum dosing in favor of the normal method of
forming3a biological membrane on the filters. Treated water is stored in
a 210 m tank, and pumped into the 225 mm diameter trunk distribution pipe-
line from Bhajangal reservoir to Lalitpur. A new high lift pump station and
independent 200 mm pumping main serving Lalitpur which is about 4.5 km to
the east of the intake has been constructed recently. A few modifications
to improve the treatment efficiency are included in the first Project.
(g) Mahadev Khola Scheme
All the above schemes serve the Kathmandu and Lalitpur areas which
are on opposite banks of the Bagmati River. The Mahadev Khola scheme serves
Bhaktapur about nine kilometers to the east of Kathmandu. The flow in the
Mahadev Khola 3/ is derived from perennial springs and serves local irriga-
tion needs as well as Bhaktapur water supply. An intake weir built in 1896
at Nagarkot, which is northeast of Bhaktapur, diverts water into an inlet
chamber. In 1971 the original 100 mm diameter raw water pipeline which con-
nected the inlet chamber to a service reservoir at Bansbari 3/ was replaced
by a 200 mm diameter spun iron pipeline. At the same time the original 125 mm
diameter trunk distribution pipeline from Bansbari to Bhaktapur was replaced
by a 300 mm cast iron pipeline. The distance from the inlet chamber to
Bansbari is 3.1 km and from Bansbari to Bhaktapur is another 2.3 km. The
raw water is moderately soft and aggressive with low turbidity except in
the monsoon. The only treatment provided is disinfection by gas chlorina-
tion. WSSB has plans for the future construction of a treatment plant for
conjunctive use with ground water. Only minor improvements are included
in the first Project.
1/   0.16 U.S. gallons per minute per square foot.
2/  (0.06 U.S. gallons per minute per square foot.
3/   Not to be confused with the Bir Dhara scheme where similar place
names are used.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
(h) New Pharping Springs Scheme
The ongoing first Project includes the construction of the Pharping
scheme which will utilize three springs and one or two wells. Pharping is
situated to the south of Kathmandu about four kilometers from Lalitpur. Three
limestone springs issue frsm the hillside; two of these, the Sat Mul and Sesh
Narayan, supply a 16,000 m headpond serving the 500 kilowatt Pharping hydro-
electric power station, and also local irrigation and domestic needs. A lower
spring, the Kutori Mul, emerges near the power station and provides local
irrigation needs in season. HMG has decided to shut down the power station,
as i-t is redundant, and WSSB proposes to develop the three springs to supply
Kathmandu and Lalitpur. In the absence of long term spring flow data, the
minimum low flows were estimated from a hydrological study of 20 years of rain-
fall data in the adjoining Godavari catchment. This was compared with values
for the Kutori Mul spring measured during 1971/72, and frequency curves
developed for all three springs. The study indicated small annual variations
of flow from the deep-seated springs, fed from a large volume of water in
storage. Daily flows available for water supply from all the springs for 85%,
75% and 50% of the time in an average year are estimated to be about 176 1/sec,
201 1/sec and 313 1/sec respectively, and daily average annual minimum flows
are estimated to be:
Sat MIul    Sesh Narayan    Kutori Mul    Total
1-----  /sec -------------------
Average annual minimum           78             52               66          196
Less irrigation use              19             13                8           40
Total available for
water supply                     59             39               58          156
About two kilometers south of Kutori Muul an exploratory well was
drilled in 1973 and when tested for 24 hours yielded about 35 1/sec. The
first production tubewell was drilled and developed recentLy but test pumping
results have been disappointing. Another tubewell is being drilled arid if
satisfactory the tubewells will be connected to the scheme for conjunctive
use with the spring flows. Hydrological studies of the acquifer predicted a
daily yield of 93 1/sec from the proposed tubewells. The engineering studies
and final design of equipment have been prepared for a total daily minimum
supply of about 249 I/sec, comprising: (a) 156 1/sec from the springs, and
(b) 93 1/sec from the tubewells. As 201 1/sec is availablea for 75% of the
time from the springs, the conjunctive use of groundwater is expected to be
mostly for meeting Kathmandu and Lalitpur peak demands in the later years.
Submersible pumps would pump groundwater from the tubewells to a central
pumping station to be constructed at Pharping near the hydroelectric power
station. The Pharping pumping station would also be fed by gravity from the
Kutori Mul spring through a new intake and a 300 m long, 2.50 mm diametet



ANNEX 5
Page 8
pipeline. The water received from these sources would be injected into a new
transmission pipeline connected to the penstock of the hydroelectric power
station, conveying water from Sat Mul and Sesh Narayan via the head pond. A
new 4.5 kilometer long, 350 mm diameter transmission pipeline is designed to
have a carrying capacity for supplying, by gravity, about 170 1/sec, almost
equal to the daily flows from the upper Sat Mul and Sesh Narayan springs for
50% of the time in an average year. As these flows recede to 100 1/sec, the
lowest for 85% of the time in an average year, the supply would be increasingly
augmented by pumping from the lower Kutori Mul spring, and as these flows also
recede to about 57 1/sec--the minimum in an average year--greater quantities
would be pumped from the Pharping tubewells. The total capacity of the trans-
mission pipeline would be about 249 1/sec, which will discharge into a service
I                   ~~~~~~~~3
reservoir at Shainbu. This reservoir will have a capacity of 2,700 m and
will be equipped with chlorination facilities.  From the Shainbu reservoir the
trunk distribution pipeline 500 nm in diameter will convey water to Lalitpur
and southwest Kathmandu. The quality of water from these springs is expected
to be the same as the water from other springs.
(i) New Tubewells
In the first Project three other tubewells have been drilled, in
addition to the tubewells at Pharping. The test pumping of these tubewells has
shown a somewhat better yield than was expected during the appraisal of the
first Project. The yields are as follows:
--   Bode, near the old well; 62.5 1/sec
-    Bansbari, west of the Bir Dhara transmission line; 62.5 1/sec
-.   Balaju, north of the Ring Road near Bishnumati Khola; 24.3 1/sec
The connection pipelines and pumphouses for these tubewells are
being designed and itender documents are being prepared. All of the tubewells
will be equipped with chlorination facilities. Water quality is satisfactory
based on the analysis of the first water samples taken during the test pumping.
The results indicate a low content of iron and manganese, a pH-value slightly
above 7.0 and a total hardness about 70 ppm. Bansbari and Balaju tubewells
will pump to the adjoining transmission lines of Bir Dhara and Tri Bhim
Dhara schemes respectively.  Bode tubewell will be connected to the 3existing
distribution system and reservoir at Tigni. The reservoir of 500 m is in
poor condition and is proposed for replacement by a new reservoir in the
second project.
(j) M4uldole Scheme
WSSB has implemented a small water scheme some 9.5 km south of
Lalitpur to provide supply to two villages from Muldole spring. The capacity
of the spring is estimated to vary from 20 to 40 1/sec.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
8.        In the first Project a central laboratory will be erected to
facilitate the necessary water quality testing for distribution control and
development of treatment arrangements for which WSSB has requested a treat-
ment expert and a laboratory chemist from ODM.
9.        During the first Project a leak detection expert and a metering
specialist from ODM have been working with WSSB since 1974. They have
trained local staff in rehabilitation of network and connections and the
staff have obtained practical experience in carrying out: metering and waste
prevention programs. About 20 flow meters will be installed in the first
Project in the system and at the plants and reservoirs to enable WSSB to
obtain data on water produced and supplied to the system. Also a new com-
munication system will be provided between reservoirs and Pharping pump
station. This will provide reliable data for updating the master plans in
the proposed second project.
Distribution Network
10.       Kathmandu distribution network was first laid in 1896 and extended
in 1920, 1930 and 1966. The Lalitpur and Bhaktapur networks were first laid
in 1896, and except for minor additions remained unchanged until 1972 when
some of the trunk mains were reinforced at Lalitpur and replaced in Bhaktapur.
The pipes are predominantly of cast iron with some steel and asbestos, with
the larger diameters ranging from 100 mm to 600 mm:
Range of pipe diameters (mm)       100-225    250-300    375-600    Total
- kilometers -------------
Kathmandu                             38          11          10        59
Lalitpur                              30          --          --        30
Bhaktapur                              5           2          --         7
Total                            73          13         10         96
The distribution system in Bode/Thimi consists of a 150 mm main of
asbestos cement reducing to 100 mm cast iron pipe.  The total length of the
main is about 2.1 km. The systems in the Kathmandu Valley presently provide
supplies to over 17,000 service connections and 1,100 standpipes. The dis-
tribution network is not adequately maintained, and under the present inter-
mittent operating conditions it is inevitable that contaminated water is
drawn into the mains through defective joints. However, both internal and
external corrosion is minimal, and is limited to some recently laid cast
iron pipes. The distribution network extensions and improvements in the
first Project include the following quantities of pipes:



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Pipe size (mm)  50      80   100   150    200   250   300   350   400   500
Lengt:h (km)   0.25  12.93  9.60  5.53  10.91  4.14  3.21  7.02  1.33  3.87
Total length of new pipes is 58.8 km.
Unaccounted-for Water
11.       As there are few working meters to measure water production, and only
about: 30% of the house connections are metered, unaccounted for water cannot be
accurately estimated. Under the existing intermittent supply, unaccounted for
water is estimated to be about 50% of water sent into distribution and this is
lost through leakage and wastage. Wastage is mainly from running taps left
open through the two three-hour daily supply periods, especially from unmetered
domestic connections and standpipes. Mains' leakage is caused by poor workman-
ship during pipe laying, and studies by the consultants and the experience of
the 0DM team indicate that most of the other leakage is caused through badly
installed ferrules, and the use of substandard pipes and fittings in making
house connections. Other causes of unaccounted for water include underregis-
trat:ion of meters because of the intermittent supply and defective meters.
FaciLities for the testing and repair of meters are provided in the first
Proj ect.
Village Water Supplies
12.       These are simple supplies usually with gravity intakes or with con-
nections to existing water supplies by a small transmission pipeline between
50 min to 100 mm diameter serving a few standpipes. The standpipes are not
installed firmly and are sometimes fittetd with waste-not valves, but do not
have concrete platforms to enable consumers to collect the water in a con-
tainer without waste. There is usually no drainage for the wasted water,
whiclh often stagnates around the standpipes. Every village has a few private
connections. In the first Project eight: villages with a total population of
about 8,000 are provided with extensions and improvements to the supply sys-
tems.
SEWE1RAGE (Map, IBRD 12678)
Sanitation
13.       Very few people in the project area have any form of sanitary facil
ities. As in other predominantly rural cultures most of the people use the
fields, river banks or waste ground. Until recently some householders in the
built-up areas of the larger towns had latrines with buckets emptied by
sweepers. With increased education, the traditional labour has largely turned
to less offensive employment, and these latrines are now either emptied at
longer intervals, abandoned, or in most cases, converted to hand or cistern-
flushed latrines connected to open drains, septic tanks and cesspits. In the



ANNEX 5
Page 11
closely built-up old city of Kathmandu several properties were connected
to an existing covered surface water sewerage system but outside this area
raw sewage, odorous septic tank effluent and sometimes sludge now flows
into and clogs open roadside drains. There are no records of the sanitary
facilities, and the following data on the valley towns are based on sample
surveys made in 1972.
Existing Sanitary Facilities
Number of properties served by
Total      Hand    Cistern    Connections
number of   flushing  flushing   to existing   Septic
Sewerage Zone  properties  latrines  latrines  sewage syEtem  tanks  Cesspits
Kathmandu        19,100      13,220      1,250     7,000 /1        880       880
Tahachal          1,530         750        160                     160       110
Kirtipur          1,050         100                                           20
Lalitpur          6,780       1,040        160                     120       270
Thimi             1,090          50                                           10
Bhaktapur         4,520         450                                           60
Total           34,070       15,610       1,570    7,000         1,160    1,350
/1  Of these 3300 have water service connections.
Sewer System
14.       The original Kathmandu sewers constructed between 1896 and 1905 con-
sist of a small system of brick culverts varying in size from 600 mm diameter
circular to 1,500 x 1,050 mm ovoid sections. The lateral. sewers are generally
constructed as rectangular brick culverts with concrete cr stone cover slabs.
These originally served as surface drains only, but since 1950 most of the
houses adjacent to the sewers have made connections to latrines and septic
tanks discharging raw and septic sewage. The lateral sexwers, because of the
rectangular construction, suffer frequent blockages, and as they were in-
adequately provided with manholes cannot be effectively cleaned. WSSB pro-
poses to replace with circular concrete sewers those sections which are
subject to frequent blockages, and provide additional manholes. A small
quantity of materials for these remedial works is included in the first Proj-
ect. The trunk sewers were well constructed, and although they have not
been maintained within living memory are in generally good condition and
operate satisfactorily. A section is badly silted, but this can be rectified
with jetting equipment included in the first Project. The main sewers dis-
charge into open irrigation channels where the polluted water is used primarily
to irrigate market garden vegetable plots. The excess sewage flows without
treatment into the Bagmati River and the Bishnumati Khola..



ANNEX 5
Page 12
15.       The sewerage component of the first Project includes the construc-
tion of a complete sewage collection systesm for areas of Kathmandu and Lalitpur
most acutely in need of sewerage, new trunk and outfall sewers to convey the
sewage from the collection system to a pumpstation at Kirtipur, and two treat-
ment plants--at Dhobighat and at Kodku--which are stabilization pond plants
and which will discharge their effluent into the Bagmati River.
Collection Network Extensions and Improvements
16.       A new colLection system covering some 100.8 ha of the Kathmandu
"core" area is included in the first Project.  At Lalitpur, however, a new
collection system limited to serve only the most congested, insanitary core
areas is included in the first Project. The selected areas are those most
popular with foreign and local tourists. The projected 1985 population that
would be served by water-borne sewerage systems to be constructed under the
first and second project is estimated to be about 110,000 in Kathmandu, and
probably 10,000 in Lalitpur. The following quantities of collector sewers
will be laid in the first Project:
Lateral and Branch Sewers
---------------------- (meters) ------------------------
Diameter              100 mm    150 mm    200 mm    250 mm    300 mm    350 mm
Lengthi               10,000    11,400    2,700        1,500      1,300     500
The total length of new lateral and branch sewers is 27.4 km.
17.       There are about 7,000 house sewer connections on the existing sys-
tem, of which 3,300 properties have piped water connections. About 3,800
futurea connections are provided in the first Project. Most of these connec-
tions will be made in the highly congested parts of Kathmandu and Lalitpur.
For every unsewered property a three-meter long, 100 mm dia. lateral sewer
is included to ensure that all of the householders will take connections.
WiLth the exception of the Bir Hospital, there are no large non-domestic sewage
flows in the first Project. However, the trunk and outfall sewers are designed
for planned future extensions, and the flows from the palace, hospitals and
industries have been calculated from available information. The following
lengths of trunk sewers are to be laid in the first Project:
Truink Sewers
------------------------- (meters) ------------------------
Diameter          500 mm    600 mm    700 mm    800 mm    900 mm    1,000 mm
Length            1,900      3,000      1,8(0     650        1,100      600
Total length of new trunk sewers is 9.1 km.
Two storm overflows are to be provided, one on the new system and another
on the existing system.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
Kirtipur Sewage Pumping Station
18.       The Kirtipur pumping station will receive flows from the outfall
sewer and lift it to the Dhobighat treatment site on the east bank of the
Bagmati River. The pumping station is designed to deal with expected 1985
sewage flows, and is capable of expansion to meet future flows. The pumping
station is of conventional design with wet and dry wells and an overflow to
meet excess storm flows from the Tukuchu Khola. Becauset of anticipated dif-
ficulties with maintenance and spare parts three similar electrically-driven
pumpsets will be provided--two duty, and one standby--each having a rated
capacity of 830 1/sec. Until such time as the flow builds up, only one pump
may be in operation at a time with the other two as standby. A store, workshop
with tools and a change-room are included in the first P'roject, to be con-
structed by the side of the pumping station. A spun ircin force main about
1,760 m long and 1,000 mm in diameter will convey the sewage to the Dhobighat
treatment plant site, which is at about the same ground level as the pumping
station.
Lalitpur Sewerage System
19.       The Lalitpur sewerage system is designed on the same criteria as
the Kathmandu system, but drains by gravity to waste stabilization lagoons
at Kodku on the southern bank of the Bagmati River to the northeast of the
town. Kodku is about four kilometers upstream of Dhobighat.
Dhobighat and Kodku Waste Stabilization Lagoons
20.       Initial treatment will be by duplicate primary anaerobic ponds
followed by one secondary facultative pond, which will be converted to a
mechanically aerated pond at a later date, and one final settling pond. At
Dhobighat about 30 ha of land is available, and about half this area is
required for the first stage project to treat an average dry weather flow of
540 1/sec expected in 1985. The Kodku stabilization pond system would be
similar in design to the Dhobighat ponds, but smaller, requiring 2.02 ha
to treat 60 1/sec in 1985.
Following the commissioning of the first Project sewerage scheme,
there should be an immediate reduction in pollution, resulting from the treat-
ment of sewage now discharged untreated into the river. In the early years
of sewage treatment operations, more accurate information would be obtained
on low flows in the river, and WSSB staff would be trained in the estimation
of BOD in the sewage effluent and of dissolved oxygen in the river, to ensure
that river quality is maintained at a selected standard. The laboratory
building to be constructed at Kirtipur pump station site will also provide a
space for a sewage laboratory.
Health Statistics
22.       Health statistics obtained from the records of Bir Hospital in
Kathmandu do not indicate the total incidence of disease caused by fecal
pollution.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
Fecal and Water borne diseases April 1971 to April 1972
Disease                                              Admissions
Cholera                                                     3
Typhoid Fever                                             116
Bacillary Dysentry                                         75
Amoebic Dysentry                                           51
Dysentry (unspecified)                                    118
Diarrhoea and Infantile Diarrhoea                         346
Gastro-enteritis and colitis                            1,250
Infectious Hepatitis                                       40
Total                                                  1,999
Minor attacks of illness are not recorded, and the incidence of diarrhoea,
hookwook and roundworm is so common as to go unremarked.  According to one
estimate, about 50% of all patients admitted to Bhaktapur Hospital suffer
from hookworm, and nearly 100% suffer from roundworm.
23.       WHO has reported a cholera outbreak during August to October 1976,
with 123 notifications in total, and one death.
Pokhctra (Map, IBRD 12679)
24.       Pokhara water supply system covers Pokhara town and three adjoining
village Panchayats. Pokhara is located about 200 km west of Kathmandu.
Water Sources and Production
25.       The Pokhara water supply is from springs at Bal Dhara and the stream-
fed Bhote Khola. The production capacity, estimated by consultants, is as
follows:
Daily Flow, 1/sec
Minimum in Av. Year   Exceed 85% of Time
Bal Dhara                         1                    1
Bhote Khola                      29                   31
30 /_                32
/1 No records



ANNEX 5
Page 15
26.       Pokhara has potentially good sources of supply in the snow-fed
Sethi, Mardi and Kali Kholas (Kali Khola Scheme) and Phewa Tal Lake.
The Kali Khola Scheme is being implemented in the first P'roject and the
estimated minimum flow in an average year is 46 1/sec and the flow exceeding
85% of time 57 1/sec.
Existing Pokhara Water Schemes
27.       Pokhara derives its water supply from two limestone springs at Bal
Dhara to the west and the spring-fed Bhote Khola to the northwest of the town.
There are no records of flow other than stream gaugings made in 1957 on the
Bhote Khola.
(a)       Bal Dhara scheme was constructed in about 1920 and the spring water
is collected in two wells and flows through separate casi: iron pipelines of
50 mm and 75 mm diameter providing local supplies in areas to the north and
the south of the town. The pipelines have a combined capacity of about 3
1/sec, but the minimum yield of the springs is a little over 1 1/sec. There
is no storage or treatment. The water has low turbidity,, is moderately hard,
and is polluted. WSSB proposes to improve protection of the source and make
some minor repairs at the intake.
(b)       The Bhote Khola scheme constructed in 1965 consists of a weir and
intake on the Bhote Khola, and a 200 mm diameter asbestos cement pipeline con-
veys water to a break pressure tank at Amala Bisauni, a distance of 3.0 km.
The pipeline is estimated to have a carrying capacity of 68 1/sec, but from
stream gaugins made in 1957 it is estimated that the average annual minimum
flow in the Bhote Khola is only 29 1/sec. A 150 mm diameter asbestos cement
pipeline 3.6 km in length,3with a capacity of 68 1/sec connects the break
pressure tank to the 450 m Bindhabasani service reservoir situated in down-
town Pokhara. The pipeline is leaking badly, and after allowing for enroute
supplies the water delivered to the service rese5voir is estimated to be only
16 1/sec. WSSB has recently constructed a 450 m capacity storage reservoir
near the break pressure tank, and a new 200 mm transmission line of cast-iron
from Amala Bisauni to Pokhara distribution system. The water is soft and
tends to be aggressive, and is suitable, after disinfection, for domestic
water supply but turbidity increases during the monsoon period. Provision is
made in the first Project for disinfection. Bindhabasani reservoir has appre-
ciable and increasing leakage from cracks in the walls and floor. The pre-
liminary cost estimate prepared by consultants indicates that repair work of
the reservoir would be excessive and may cost practically the same as con-
struction of a new one. Therefore WSSB is proposing the abandonment of the
existing reservoir and inclusion of a new reservoir in the proposed projet.
Kali Khola Springs Scheme
28.       Of two alternative gravity schemes studied by tLhe consultants for
Pokhara water supply the Kali Khola springs scheme is the most economic for



ANNEX 5
Page 16
development and is being constructed in the first Project.  About five and
one-.half kilometers northeast of the existing Amala Bisauni reservoir, are
three perennial springs meeting together to form the Kali Khola, which is
a tributary of the Sethi Khola.  The only reliable recorded gauging of these
streams was made in may 1963 and gave a flow of 80 1/sec during the dry
season. Another dry season gauging made by WSSD in 1967 gave an unusually low
flow of 18 1/sec. There is some uncertainty as to whether these latter
records (a) referred to the Kali Khola springs or (b) were accurate. The
consultants and WSSB have carried out flow measurements during the period
December 1973 to June 1974 and the flow figures given in para 26 are based on
these measurements.
29.       Separate weirs and intakes sited above possible sources of pollu-
tion on each of the three springs will be connected by about two kilometers
of 100 mm pipeline to a collecting chamber near the confluence of the springs.
A 250 mm diameter cast iron pipeline about 4.7 kilometers long would be laid
fronm the collecting chamber to the Amala Bisauni reservoir. The first Proj-
ect includes a chlorination house with gas chlorinators, and a store. No
treatment is included in the first Project as the spring water is of good
quality for most of the year, and the sources would be protected from pollu-
tion, WSSB has plans to construct a desiltation tank for waters from Bhote
Khola and Kali Khola schemes to be used during the monsoon period. This
question requires still further consideration and will be studied in more
detail when the water production superintendent from ODM arrives.
Distribution Network
30.       The Pokhara network was probably first laid in the 1920's and ex-
ten6ed in 1965. Pipes are in the range of 100 to 225 mm and 9 km in total
leng;th. They are cast iron, galvanized steel and asbestos cement, and some
of the asbestos cement pipes do not have adequate cover and break frequently.
The system presently provides supplies to over 1,000 service connections and
about 250 standpipes. The extensions in the first Project include the fol-
lowing sizes and quantities of pipes:
Diameter (mm)             50     80      100      150     200      250
Total Lenght (meters)  150    3350   8900    2650    2900    4400
Total length of new pipes is 22.4 km.
These pipes will be used for constructing the new transmission line in the
Kali Khola scheme!, new distribution mains in Pokhara and replacing old leaky
pipES.
Unaccounted for Water
31.       Less than 10% of service connections were metered in July 1976, and
standpipes served about 85% of the total served population. Half of the total
water fed to the system was estimated to be wasted.



ANNEX 5
Page 17
Sanitation
32.       In Pokhara it is estimated that only 8% of the population have
sanitary facilities. There is no sewerage component for Pokhara in the first
Project. No health statist4cs for Pokhara are available.
Biratnagar (Map, IBRD 12680)
33.       Biratnagar's existing water supply system covers only the northern
part of the town Panchayat. The consultants proposal for extended supply sys-
tem covers the rest of the town Panchayat and part of the five adjoining
village Panchayats.
34.       Biratnagar is situated in the Morang District of the Kosi zone, 4.5
km north of the Indian border in the southeastern Terai area. The area is
formed of alluvial fine sediments similar to those found in other parts of
the Terai and consultants have obtained the characteristics of the aquifer
in Biratnagar by reference to data obtained elsewhere in the Terai. On the
limited evidence available it would appear that both shallow and deep aqui-
fers extend over the whole area.
Water Production and Reservoir
35.       The public water supply in Biratnagar is from a single tubewell to
the north of Biratnagar bazaar area and a number of handpump wells provided
by the Panchayat.
36.       The existing supply system was implemented in 1965.  The tubewell
has a 380 mm steel casing at the surface and is approximiately 100 meters deep.
There are no record drawings nor drilling logs available. The pump presently
delivers about 25 1/sec but was apparently rated at 37.5 1/sec. The in-
stallation is unreliable and the works are frequently shut down for repair
and maintenance. There is no standby pumping or power available and it is
often necessary to discontinue the supply.
37.       The pump delivers through a 2003mm diameter pumping main of cast
iron to an overhead storage tank of 450 m . The tank is of concrete and
elevated 18 m above the ground level (bottom of the tank). The outlet main
of the tank is 300 mm in diameter and is connected to the system at the
nearby street main.
38.       At present there is no treatment to the water pumped from the tube-
well and the quality of supplied water is not monitored in any way. The
quality of raw water was tested by consultants on the basis of a few samples
and analyses indicate a clear, colourless and hard water. Water is not
aggressive but an objectionable concentration of manganese was detected in
some samples. The iron content is negligible. The analysis of waters from



ANNhtA J
Page 18
pub:Lic handpump wells exhibited similar characteristics as the water from
the tubewell. Public wells are susceptible to pollution because of the
nature of these installations, and this is indicated also by a few bac-
teriological analyses. These are not, therefore, recommended as suitable
in tihe long term for public supply.
Disi:ribution Network
39.       The piped supply from the tubewell is provided only for five hours
in :he morning and about three hours in the evening, but in practice the
storage tank empties before the end of the supply period. The initial dis-
tribution system covers only the northern half of the town Panchayat and has
a total length of about 25 km. Diameters vary from 12 mm to 200-mm of which
the pipes in diameters 127 mm to 200 mm are of cast iron and the remainder of
galvanized steel. In 1975 the town Panchayat has implemented some minor
extensions to the system, of galvanized steel pipes from 25 m to 50 mm with
a total length of 3.6 km.
40.       The system presently supplies about 700 service connections and
about 240 public standpipes, but many of these are not in working condition.
The town Panchayat has ceased to permit: new private connections or additional
standpipes.  In order to meet increasing demands for water supplies, the town
Panchayat has installed shallow tubewells provided with handpumps in recent
years, and the number of these is about 430.
Una,zcounted for Water
41.       The distribution system is in fairly good condition since it was
laid quite recently. The high percentage--50%--of unaccounted for water is
mainly explained by wasteful use of water through unmetered connections and
stanadpipes, many of which are jammed in the open position, thus permitting
the unrestricted flow of water during the whole of the supply period.
Sanitation
42.       Consu'ltants have estimated on the basis of a sample survey that
about 2.5% of the houses have septic tanks and 7.5% have pit latrines.  The
remaining properties have no sanitary facilities. Based on the foregoing
it is estimated that only about 12% of the population is living in houses
provided with septic tanks or dry pit latrines.
43.       Health statistics obtained form the Kosi Zonal Hospital indicates
the amount of diseases caused by fecal pollution as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 19
No. of Cases
Disease                          1974    1975    1976 (Oct.)
Bacillary Dysentry                12        -       -
Amoebic dysentry                   2         -      -
Gastro-enteritis                  47       68      35
Dysentry Unspecified               6        22     11
Diarrhoea                          4         3      5
Birganj (Map, IBRD 12680)
44.       The Birganj existing water supply system covers the core of the city
from Murti in the north to Chaphaiya in the south, and mainly areas straddling
the main road. The only extension to this is the Adarsha Nagar area, a recently
developed residential area west from the main road. The consulants' proposal
would extend the system to cover more completely the central area of the city
and provide reinforcements to the existing system. Also the proposal includes
supply mains to several adjoining villages around the urban area.
45.       Birganj is situated in the central Terai in Parsa District and lies
3 km from the Indian border on the major road link between Kathmandu and India.
The Terai plains are formed of mixed alluvial sediments.  The main aquifer is
one of generally mixed sands and gravels at a depth of 80 to 120 meters below
ground level.  Above the main aquifer several other aquifer systems exist weith
high water tables into which a number of shallow tubewelLs or open wells have
been sunk.
Water Production and Reservoirs
46.       The existing water supply in Birganj is based upon use of the under-
lying aquifer and water is pumped from two tubewells which are located near
the distribution system.
(a) Birganj Water Works
The present Birganj water works were commissioned in 1965 to replace
the 30 year old, worn out tubewell scheme.  The works consist of a tubewell
and water tower. The tubewell has an upper casing of 380 mm and the lower
casing is 150 mm in diameter, including 30 m of screen. The total depth of
the tubewell is 107 m. The tested capacity of the tubewell is 52.5 l/sec
with a drawdown of only 5.5 m. The existing pumping capacity is about 50 1/sec0
The water is gumped from the well through a 200 mm rising main to an overhead
tank of 450 m . The tank is of concrete and its floor is 19.3 m above the
ground level. The tank has two outlets--200 mm and 150 mm in diameter--
which are connected to a distribution main at the nearby main road. Basically
these installations are in good condition and there is no leakage occurring
from the tank. There appears to have been no mechanical failure of the pump-
set since it was installed, but frequent faults on the motor starter and over-
heating of the motor occur because of lack of proper ventilation in the pump
house.



ANNEX 5
Page 20
(b)  Adarsa Nagar Water Works
A new tubewell scheme was constructed in 1973 to give a supply for
the new development area at Adarsa Nagar. These works consist of a tubewell
and a water tower. The tubewell's upper casing is of 350 mm steel pipe and
the lower casing of 200 mm including 26 m of screen. The total depth is about
117 m, The tested capacity of the well is 81 1/sec, but the installed pumping
capac:.ty is only about 50 1/sec. The well water is pumped to an overhead tank
of 450 m3 through a 200 mm rising main. The tank is a circular concrete one
with floor level 18.3 m above ground level. The tank is connected to the
distribution mains at a nearby street with a 300 mm outlet pipe. Since this
water works is fairly new there are no special problems in its operation and
the installations are in good conditions.
47.       The tubewell schemes do not have, at present, any treatment and the
quali':y of water is not monitored. Consultants have carried out some quality
analysis of the tubewell water. The results indicate a clear, colorless and
hard water which is not aggressive. The concentrations of iron and manganese
are very low but the water was found to be slightly polluted. In general the
water is considered suitable for potable supply but requires chlorination.
Distribution Network
48.       According to the limited information, which is available about the
original system in Birganj, the material is mainly galvanized iron and the
sizes vary from 25 to 75 mm. The newer distribution pipelines, laid after
1965, are of cast iron from 100 mm to 20C mm and of galvanized steel in
sizes 75 mm and under. The total length of the system is estimated to be
about 30 km. The system provides supplies to about 1,030 service connec-
tions and 80 standpipes. Supply is, for the time being, intermittent due
to lack of funds to meet the cost of electricity for pumping. The availability
of water is not the limiting factor. Two new development areas in Birganj--one
in northwestern part of city and the other one east of the existing central
area--are presently being planned for implementation within a few years.
These areas will provide lots for about 2,500 new houses and development of
water suply systems is urgently needed. About 150 public handpumped tube-
wells have also been installed to extend the water supply service to areas which
are not yet covered by the network and also within the piped supply area.
UnaccDunted for Water
49O       The pipes in the existing systetm are in fairly good condition and
pipe aorrosion appears to be limited. However, pipes are frequently broken by
heavy traffic on main thoroughfares, and leaks and breaks in service are com-
mscn. The most noticeable wastage is from standpipes which are often left con-
tinuously open. All of the existing service connections are unmetered which
causes wasteful use of water. On this basis consultants have estimated un-
accounted for water to be 50% of supply.



ANNEX 5
Page 21
Sanitation
50.       The consultants have made a number of sample surveys on the avail-
ability of sanitary facilities in houses. On this basis it is estimated that
about 38% of the population is currently served by septic tanks. The town
Panchayat operates a night soil service within a limited area.
51.       Health statistics obtained from the Tribhuvan Samarak Hospital indi-
cates the amount of diseases caused by fecal pollution as follows:
No. of Cases
Disease                                   1975/76
Dysentery                                     23
Gastro-Enteritis                             145
Diarrhoea                                    140
Hepatitis                                      8
Typhoid                                       10



AMiNEX o
Page 1
NEPAI.
APPRAISAI OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY ANID SEWERAGE PROJECT
Population, Water Demand and Production Projections
Introduction
1.         The projections are in general based on the consultants master
plan reports for all the towns included in the project. Since these reports
are already two to four years old, additional information was obtained from
the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), Family Planning Department, WHO and
from the water supply offices in the project cities. WSSB has recently
carried out preliminary updating of the basic water supply data in Biratnagar
and Birganj and this has been taken into account in preparing the projections.
Population Growth
Statistical Data
2.         Population censuses, with demographic data collected on a scientific
basis, were carried out for Nepal in 1952/54, 1961/63 and 1971. In these two
decades the annual rate of growth for the country was 1.31% and 2.05% respec-
tively. This rate is comparable with 2.2% for the whole of Asia in 1960-69.
3.         The CBS report 1/ gives the pro;jected annual countrywide growth rate
as follows:
Period                   Annual Growth (aver.)
1971-76                           2.16%
1976-81                           2.18%
1981-86                           2.30%
The Family Planning Department 2/ has estimated that a 10% or 20%
reduction in fertility in 20 or 25 years will not lead to a decline in the
existing growth rate. Only a reduction in fertility as high as 40% or 50%
can result in a substantive reduction in the growth rate. If there is no
fertility drop the growth rate would be about 2.6% and 2.8% in 1980 and 1985
respectively.
1/   Population Projections for Nepal, 1971-86.  HMG/Central Bureau of
Statistics; May 1974.
2/   Population Projections for Nepal/Preliminary Report; September 1976.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        In Kathmandu Valley, probably because of better medical facilities,
the growth rate in the past decade was 2.41%. The consultants have also cal-
culated growth rates for the three town Panchayats 1/ in the valley. The
following table gives census data and growth rates:
1961/63 Census      1971 Census /a    Annual Growth
Area in Valley               Population          Population             Rate
Kathmandu Town Panchayat            126,081              150,342            2.22%
Kathmandu Village Panchayats           NA                 40,601              -
Lalitpur Town Panchayat              48,795               59,049            2.26%
Bhaktapur Town Panchayat             33,877               40,112            1.70%
Bode/Thimi Village Panchayats          NA                 10,000              -
55 villages                            NA                 63,000
Rural                                  NA                220,448              -
Total Kathmandu Valley              459,900 /b           583,552            2.41%
/a   Estimated from preliminary census figures given by the Central Bureau of
Statistics to the consultants for the purposes of the project.
/b   Includes villages and rural population.
5.        In the Pokhara Town Panchayat, apart from the 1971 official census,
only local censuses were taken in 1964 and 1970. Because of migration, which
in recent years has increased significantly, the annual growth rate of Pokhara
is more than double that of Kaski district in which it is situated. The fol-
lowing table gives census data and growth rates:
Census                     Census                        Annual
Area           Year       Population    Year         Population        Growth
Kaski District      1961          128,000      1971         145,000          1.25%
Pokhara             1964           16,891      1970          19,594          2.5%
"1               1964           16,891      1971          20,611          2.9%
1970           19,594      1971          20,611          5.2%
6.        The figures given in the 1971 census for Biratnagar and Birganj
Town Panchayats are as follows:
Growth Rate
Population 1971          (1961-71)
Biratnagar                     45,100                 2.5%
Birganj                        13,200                 2.1%
1/   Panchayats are political subdivisions.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
In Eiratnagar there is an unknown number of seasonal residents variously esti-
mated from 34,000 to 65,000 by local officials.  The eastern Terai area, in
which Biratnagar is situated, had a grolwth rate of 2.75%.
Population Projections
7.        The consultants have developed constant rate, low, medium and high
projections for all project towns. In the first project the medium assumption
was used because of the family planning program introduced at that time. The
high assumption is now justified as the family planning program is not expected
to have a declining effect on the growth rate for some time and migration is
expected to be even more active than before.
8.        The population projections for the project areas are as follows:
Assumed              High Assumption
Growth Rate   1975    1980          1985      1990
000-----s -----  's      
Kathmandu Valley                                279     320         367       421
- Kathmandu Town Panchayat           2.6       (167)   (190)       (217)    (247)
- Kathmandu Village Panchayats    3.4           (47)    (55)         (65)     (77)
- Lalitpur Town Panchayat            2.6        (65)    (75)         (85)     (97)
Villages in fringe area
of :.'athmandu served from
System /1                            3.0         37      89         104       120
Bode/Thimi                           2.8         13       15          17       19
Pokha ara                                        39      50          65        84
- Town Panchayat                     6.0        (28)    (37)         (50)     (67)
- Village Panchayats                 2.8        (11)    (13)         (15)     (17)
Biratnagar /2                                   105     115         127       141
- Permanent population               3.0        (65)    (75)         (87)    (101)
- Seasonal  population                          (40)    (40)        (40)      (40)
Birganj /2                           3.0         45      53          61        71
Total population
in project areas                                368 /3  642         741       856
/1   Includes 30 villages in 1975 and LO more in 1978.
/2   WSSB will take over in FY1979.
/3   Does not include Biratnagar and Birganj (see note /2).



ANNEX 6
Page 4
The average overall rate of growth will be close to 3%. The overall projec-
tion is presented in Appendix 1. The difference between medium and high
assumptions would be about 40,000 and 80,000 people in 1980 and 1990, respec-
tively.
9.        The town of Bhaktapur is not included in the above population table
but its operations are part of WSSB. However construcf'ion work there is
being carried out by the Federal German Government and is not part of the
project. The population of this town is now about 45,000, and is estimated
to reach 68,000 by 1990.
Water Demand Forecasts
Population Served
10.       The population served in Kathmandu and Lalitpur in 1971 was 233,000,
about 93% of the total. Out of this 127,000 (55%) of the people were supplied
by 12,500 private connections, which means an average of 10 persons per
connection. The rest of the served population were us-ing water from public
standpipes at about 200 persons per standpipe.
11.       At the present time in Kathmandu and Lalitpur, the number of persons
per private connection is about nine and per standpipe about 160, which gives
the following totals:
No. of Connections   Persons/Conn.  Pop. Served         %
Private Connections           15,749                 9           141,700       51.5
Standpipes                       833               160           133,280       48.5
274,980      100.0
The total served population, 274,980 in 1976 is about 96% of the total popula-
tion of these towns.
12.       In other project areas there are no recent statistics available,
but the projections given in the consultants' reports can be used. The fore-
cast for population served is as follows (overall projection see Appendix 1):
Population Served
Area                                    1975      1980     1985      1990
Kathmandu - Lalitpur (including
villages served from the System)              95        97        98       98
Bode/Thimi                                    95        97        98       98
Pokhara                                       90        93       94        95
Biratnagar                                    16        60        90       93
Birganj                                       40        60       90        95



ANNEX 6
Page 5
The low percentage for Biratnagar and Birganj is based on the assumption that
very little, if any, developments have taken place in water supply since the
preparation of the master plans in 1973. However, about 70 to 80% of the
total population has access to public water supply because of the existence of
public handpumps and shallow wells.
Per Capita Consumption
13.       Since the metering of producltion has only just been started, there
are no data for calculating the per capita consumption. Consultants have
carried out several sample surveys in 'the project towns and estimated per
capita consumptions for 1975 which inc:Ludes a small component for non-domestic
consumption such as hospital, governmenlt, commercial and institutional con-
sumption. These estimated figures are used as a 1975 base and an overall in-
crease of I 1/cd to 2 1/cd per year is used in the forecasts. This increase
is possible because the sources from 1978 will be sufficient to meet demand
and to allow for standpipe users to take individual connections. The esti-
mated per capita consumption makes no allowance for industrial consumption
because factories are providing their own process water supply. The per
capita consumption projections are as follows:
Per Capita Consumption
1 /cd
1975   1980   1985   1990
Kathmandu - Lalitpur                      50     80      90      100
Villages (mainly standpipe service)    20        30      35       40
Bode/Thimi                                30     50      70       80
Pokhara                                   20     50      70       80
Biratnagar                                70     65      70       85
Birganj                                   50     60      77       90
The exceptional figure in Biratnagar in 1980 assumes that with extension of
the distribution system an increasing proportion of the seasonal population
will have access to piped water supply and will use mainly standpipes or share
with households having private connections. The existing low consumption
figure in Bode/Thimi and Pokhara is a zonsequence of the high proportion of
standpipe supplies.
Unaccounted for Water
14.       The principles given in the consultants' reports are used in deter-
mining the forecast for unaccounted for water.  The results, town by town,
are as follows:



ANNEX 6
Page 6
1975     1980    1985    1990
Kathmandu - Lalitpur                          50       40       30      25
Villages (supplied from the System)          50        40       35      30
Bode/Thimi                                   50        40       30      25
Pokhara                                       50       50       40      30
Biratnagar                                   50        40       30      25
Birganj                                       50       40       30      25
Projected Water Demand
15.       On the above basis the projections of water de'mand, in m3/day, for the
different project areas are as follows:
1975      1980  3   1985        1990
-------------- m /day -------------
Kathmandu - Lalitpur (incl. villages
supplied from the System)
Average Demand                          28,000    45,500    52,000    62,000
Peak Demand                             34,500    55,800    65,800    75,800
Bode/Thimi
Average Demand                             700      1,200      1,600     2,000
Peak Demand                                900      1,500      2,000     2,500
Pokhara
Average Demand                           1,400      4,700      7,100     9,100
Peak Demand                              1,800      5,900      8,900    11,400
Biratnagar
Average Demand                           2,400      7,600    11,600    14,800
Peak Demand                              3,000      9,500    14,500    18,500
Birganj
Average Demand                           1,800      3,200      5,800     8,300
Peak Demand                              2,300      4,000      7,300    10,400
The peak water demand of the four major project areas is presented as a graph
in Appendix 2. In general, the ratio of 1.25 for peak-day demand is used for
towns, but for villages in the Kathmandu Valley, only the average demand is
projected since the supply is mainly by standpipes.
Water Production
16.       Appendix 2 shows also the production capacity of the existing water
sources and sources to be constructed in the first or second project.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
In the Kathmandu - Lalitpur System the sources are being developed in
the first Project and should be sufficient beyond the year 1985.
Bode/Thimi System will bs supplied from the new tubewell recently
drilled with a capacity of 5,400 m /day. This capacity is far above the needs
of Bode/Thimi and is therefore planned to be used for water supply to Bhaktapur
in the coming years. Pokhara and Biratnagar will need new sources in 1983 and
Birganj in about 1987. The recommendation for new sources will be included in
the updating of the master plans.
17.       The above projections include some 30 villages on the fringes of the
urban areas of Kathmandu and Lalitpur which already receive supply from nearby
trunk mains or individual small water schemes. Eight of those villages are
included in the first project with extenisions and improvement to their supply
systems. In addition to this, 10 new villages, with 40,000 population, are
included in this project for the first time. The proposed system capacity
will meet only the present day demand, but while revising the master plan for
Kathmandu Valley the future arrangements and needs for village water supplies
will be studied in more detail.



ANNEX 6
Appendix  1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT AREA POPULATION PROJECTIONS
800,000
700,000
600,000
500,000 0                                                      X             (0)                          _
400 OC 000______
1. Kathmandu Valley; Kathmandu-
0g                                                   _                             ,,, ............... . Lalitpur - Bode/Thimi - Villages supplied
from systemrr.
2. Pokhara
300,000         n D    777                    -                              (- I34. Birganj
Total Population, high assumption
--------------  Population of various areas
.............. Population Served
200,000
100,000                                   .
0                                             I             I          I            I         I          -    I       I      I     !
1970                               75                               1980                                85                              1990
World Bank - 1



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
WATER DEMAND AND PRODUCTION PROJECTIONS
KATHMANDU VALLEY                                            OF MAJOR PROJECT AREAS
M3Idw                                 Kathmandu - Lalitpur -
M/drv                     Vilagets pplied front system                                                                   M3/d,                                      BIRATNAGAR
75,000                                          . .                                    /                                          20,000
70,000    __ * .
.            /  ~ ~~//                                                            ___/_I
_  .   /  .   /  _                               15.000
.New Waells (4)               /_                                                                                          
:               Vdlag=es       /
60,000 /
Io,
10,000
Kethma-md- Llitps_.
50,000                                   ..                                                                                                                                           New  Wells (2)
Ph.,pirg Sptgs                                                                          _
. L0 5,000                                                                                                                              ___                   __
40,000   -                                                                                                               .                                                          lrprp-v -ment of Existi g Well
...................                                                        ..                                                              ............         ...         z      zt Existing Well
, Limite.d Tr ... '.'eancty .. _
35,000                                      L                                                                                                                                                
1970                 75                  1980                   85                 1990                                            1970                  75                   1980                  85                  1990
M3/d,y                                    POKHARA
12,000                                          .
M3/d,y                                      BIRGANJ
15,000
10,000
8,000                                                                                                                             (0,000        _
6,000 .                       _            w     f__E.ismig Well 12)
2K,li Khrlo Sp-Ook Spri_
4,000                                                              ....     L    __5,000  
2,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4-      nu51   Xgs~t 
19                                                                                 1990                                            1970                   75                   1 80                    5                   90
............... .Ptod..ti,o Cap-city
Peak Day Deerand
WOlW B-ok -16726



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE BOARD
| SCRE-ARy
MINISTRY OF WATgR AND POWER
MANAGEW                                    SANAGE                R
!PNGINEERING                                 ANND WANTD ORINCISTRATIENW
AAVISION  PEN INWR                           E                        WATIVSON ENGINE R OPERATIONS                                                         CHIEF Dr T   P   TRATEN PLAN                                                        CHIEF OF
A   CIROT R                        ANDRGANJ COS                        PGKHARA                                WORS                 DISTRIER TIONS NETOR                     NLR                                A RSTON                         FINANCE
_~~~~~~~~~~~~N _.__.E __
"QW-N EWTECTION                                                                                                                                                                                     PURLIC RO CEXPENDITURE
OOAMINISTRATION AND                  ADMINISTRATION AND         S       ADMINISTRATIOlN AND                 WATER AND SEWER                 rMETER                                                             PROCUREMENT                   RI 8LLIND AND 
FINAUCE .. T<                                            -NANCE                                                               TREXNTENSIONS  W                                                       R  DAPLY                     COLLECTION
WEor R.,,S-,ODIRE



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SW)Nfl TATER SUPPLY AND SI2WERAG-R PROJEJCT
INIDbiE STATNETiSM                                       NRS MILLION
. F.s* i, .-J Iutl i >lzX9- A                               67|       3978               a    if                 .    i5           143 5       l9B >3
F OFUL TION  00oIS                  4"9of)    469~06 0       84, 0 0    499600      680,00      7 0 g 1 o Q o    °23, 0  86 ° 00      5 6,00      7 5, 0°°
PU ULATION O 8RVg9w WATM 000S 539;,?          t/040   4    43247       4q93 47     S 0994      96 0 76     V30,0E      6v53*35 ,9S g9           7 34,85
PAISLA  IO4W Sy j61N,P4   0-O                               a   T8q     I 0  t33,   22 M0o      2            01j0LI1p  I 0tel  ,g      li $,  a  380g@g
£0Nv          - -tTN                   a ,31       0, 51        858,0       i4to7    49             8Il,7       79, 06      61 54       83,
aM * WAI'tR--000'S  ~~1~,Y5                       29,I'3  ~~9,I7                      50,46       56,00 i     61,60         73
SEWER COtcTIOP4S,. 000'3S             3Of )       3,00        30 0        9000        7,00         ,OO       2lI0oo 13,00             1,00        17,00
POPULATION 8ERV1D0SEWERAF-0O0lS 27.00            2 7.00      2 7.00      4 2.50      56.oo       67 .50      7 7.00      91.00        9 7.50     10 2.00
% POPULATION SERVEDuSEW,              5.93        5.76         5.58        8.52        8.2I       9 .63      1 0.65       1 1.00      1 l.16      1 1.66
VOLUME SOLDOMILLInN   MS              6,02        6.22        7,68        8,99       12.22       14,f25      15,3         17,34       19,66       21,36
CONSUMPTION/CONNEC/MONTH-000'S   27 62           27,34t      25, 8       25,01       26.00       25.87       25f,64       25,71       26,60       26,44
X UNACCOUNTED FOR  WATER             qo0,0       9Q,0oo      50,00       47,00       45.00       40.00       38, 00       36.00       34, 00      32, 00
PRODUCTIONPMILLION M3                12 03       12,43       15.36       16,96       22.22       23.7S       25,05        27,slob     29,79       31,41
PER CAPITA PRODUCTION LCD            82,77       84,29       97,34      105,74      112.93      116902      116,13       117,17      117,62      117,09
REVENUES. WATER                       1,53        Z,34        3,10         4,29      11,30       13,69       23,40        26,05       42,95       49.52
SEWER REVENUES                        ° °0'       0,00        0,00        0,00        1*02        1,36         2,5C        3,06        5,39        6,40
OTHER OPERATIONAL REVENUES           0O70         1,90        2,13        2.21        3 52        3.04         4S93        5,00        6.23        6,76
TOTAL REVENUES                        2,23        4,24        5,23        6,SI       15,84       18,89       30,08        34.11       54,57       b2,68
WASIES  WATER                         0 80        t,16        1,47        1.89        2,41        2,83         3,30        3,89        4.53        5,25
CHEMICALS                             0,01        0,02        0,03       0Q03         0,04        0O0    O 0.06            0,07        0,06         0,09
SAI.O13                               A fln       A OS        0l          9,4Y        a,:T        0.20         0,23        0,24                    A: 0,'s
POWER,v                                               a       'JlSv                   ".,          IW           ,&                     yJ4-. 
REPAIR I MAINTENANCE                  0,47        0,60        0,76t       0,9         1,24        1,47         l,71        2,01        2,34        a 71
w--wnw v t4 w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-._-w ._..  ........  ..... -._..-o__   ....-_.- W~-- .o-.-.-..-.
DIRECT COSTSSWATER                    1133        1,86        2,36        3,03        3,86        4,95         9,30        6,24        7,26        8,41
SEWER WAESS                           0,0         0 ,00       0,00        o00         0,27        0,41         0 56        0,70        0,75        0,79
SEWER MATERIALS                       0°00        o,0o        0.00        6,00        n,07       O0l1          0,15        0,20        0,25        0,31
.w  ~~~~~~~..    .....T -........                   .     ........                          ........
DIRECT COSTS SEWERAGE              . 0. O"        OO          0 000       0,00        0,34        0,92         0,71        0,90        1,00         1,10
*wtawssswI  mannsamo   *wsssaww   aszxsm:W  t  |ssas-"   *w-etw   ssWEBS|   wauua:sat   acavs-=   S5:CYZSZ-
TOTAL DIRECT C03TS                    t,33        1.86        2,36        3,03        4,20        S,07         6,01        7,14        8,26         9,51
ADMINISTRATION                        0 49        0,60        0,76        Q,9s        1,24        1e47         1.71        2,(1        2,34         2,71
OTHER INDIRECT COSTS                  0,05        0,04        0,16        0,21        O,62        0,79         1,3o        0,73        1,21         1,40
TOTAL COSTS                           1,87        2,90        3,28        4,22        6,06        7,29         9.02        9,88       1181       13,62
~~~~~w_.-vw -------               ... ,e_.               ....... Nw------_*____ww--  .......    ........  .....
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION            0,36        1,74        1,99        2,28        9,78       11.6o       21,46        24,23       42,76       49,06
DEPRECIATION                          1I22        1,44        1 29        2,03        4,18        6,94         9,82       12,75       15,62       19,05
INCOME BEFORE INTEREST               -0,86        0,30        0,70        0,25 2,60               4,66        11,64       11,48       27,14       30,01
INTEREST CHARGED tIPER,               00)         0,0)        0,00        0,00        0, °0'0     0,06         8,47       ,804        16,60       15,93
23333333   33:333   32          3   323333    3333333    333Z33x3   3323s333l 3ss s  lass s  3333e333   3S333333    33S3xI
NET SURPLUS                          -.086        0, 30       0, 70       o25         5,60        4,6o         3.17        3,£44      10 ,54      14,08
AVERAGE RATE BASE                    37,61       40,82       46,69       7S9,88     198,56      262,6Q      168.87       473,15      571,60      688,31
'OPERATING RATIO %                   83,89       S8,99j      62,73       64,94       38.26       358,8        29.99       28,96       21,65       21,74
sRATE OF RETURN % ACTUAL             -2,29        0,73        1,50        0,33        3,53         1,77        3.16        2,43        4,75         4,36
RATE OF RTIURN % TARGET               --          0.00        0.00        0.00        2. OO       2. 00        2. 00       2. 00       3. 00        L. 0O



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SEOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWEAGE PROJ ET
FIDW OF FUNDS STATa4ENTS                                   NRS MILLION
YL4A TO JLY 1)                    197T       197(.       1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        t982        1983
SOURCES OF FUNDS
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION           0.36        t.714       1.95       2.28        9,78       ll.h6      21.'(b       214.23      4 2,76      49.06
GROSS INTERNAL GENERATInN            o,3h        1,74        1,9S       2q28        9,78       11,60       21,46       24,23      412,76       49,)06
GOVT. EQUITY CONTRIBUTIONS          41.11       11.32      1S.58       22,96       30n,43      21,22       23.So       32,00       37.5o       35.00
SECOND IDA CREDIT                    o,)         0,0(      0o,00        7,00       30,00       39,o ,00 24.,o (.00                  0,0         0,0(
SUPPLWaETAL IDA                      0,00)       0(o        0,00       300         20?0         0,00        0,0(           0 .00          0.00  (  . °-0
0THtR LOANS                         8A23         9,68      39,85       41o88        0,00           o       ?I 21,0o    30,0     0bO,0          55eOO
TOTAL LOANS                          R,23        9,68      39,85       75,8e        n0,00      39,vo       45,0(       3,()00        , 0 0     55,0(1
==XZ==*Z  55S 2t:S    S2=:55S:  =S::C5X2s  ttg=-=ZSX   52XX5xx=  S-5StlZ:  cz===X=  _===C===   -=S=5-mz
TOTAL SOURCES                       13,30       18,7/4     57.38      tO4.12       90,21       71,82       89 96       86.23      14 (,26     139.06
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PRr'JECT               n,)'   o 0,vo          0o,0        0,87       43.11       56,75       314,36       t,0         0 ,00       0,00
PREVIOUS PROJECT                     7.n2        9,22      '9,93       95,84       28,89        000         00,o  0o,0            o,0o0         0, 00
FURTMER PROJECT                      0a00        0,t0       0°'°0   0 °°00          000         0,00       3*0,        60,0       11000       100  .00
MTHER WQRK                           ?,45        3.11        1,1        200         9123          cQ        3.59I 1u.o0             4.Su        5,00
__._ .,__.............. a_ . .*.,__ ".w..............  __ .....  ....____._ __ ...  -w - _ . _ ...... _ __.__.
TOTAL INVESTMENT                     9,4/7      12,33      61,74      104,71       81e23       59,795       7,6        7 4'00     114s50      105,00
IDA CREITS AMORTIZATION               ,"         9,o00      0,0 0        ,o00       n.00        1,29        2.50        2,50        5,00        7,50
OTHER LOANS AMDRT1?ATInN             0,0          ,0o(       0,00 00,0              00o0        2.40        4,8)0       4,80        44,80       4, 80
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . . . .  ... ... .,_ _  . .w ._ _ .* * . ._ ._ .. .. .  --------  .. .. .  ._ ._____w_        ---          .... 
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                    o04)      0o,o0        0.o0    0  no          0 .oo       3.69        7.3o        7,30        9,80       12,30
DPER,INTEREST LONG T.DF8T             00         0, 0.(      0. 0o0       o 000     0,0         0,06        8.147       8.04       16,60       15,93
TOTAL OPERATIONAL INTEREST           n,0')       0,o0      0o,00        0 00        0 ,0,0 00               8,047       8,011      16,ho       15,93
= _  = _ :: = ==_Z= * s  :  Sm            = =:: S  z=z    _ ===- __=
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                   0o,0       0,0         0 ,o0       o.0o         0, 0       3,7I l577             1S,34       26,40       28.23
INCREASE IN WORK.CAPITAL             3.83        6,11      '4,36       -.,59        8,98        e,36        6.33       -3,I1       -0,8h        5.83 
=X=====-  S:,:=:=   ==CC==   :5=1_: 05===   -:=_ 2= -=.:=m =-   St===S-:Sl
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                  1363"       18,714     57,38      104,12       90,21       71,82       89,96       86,23      140,2h      139,06      X
DEBT SERVICE RATIf1                  0,0')       o,o00       0.00      0o,o00       0a         3313         1,36        t,58        1,62        1,714
X CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT         3.80       14 .11      3.16        2,18       12. 04      13.20        8,30       12.01       14 .29      19884
X INTERNAL CASH RATIO                o,69        2.66       1t,52       o97         3,08        2,06        I.2I        1.63        2, 42       2,60



a. *  *      -4~ .4    S   fla.t               a      0wIfm          -G   -4   C;   4*0   w nn         =            *-..4I
flx  0    0    U    CftOO~~~~~~~~041.1      Is 3R4         U D  0           W' Ot            44              
mw 1--             _                        U3-ZC         ~          -4    =I
-4m~~~~~                  ZI'~4  4                                         eatP~-  fZ**  
~~    ~              ~~U                             44  ~~~trift.4ZZM    4040C Ic             4
TM a -4  r-  -4        t-iZIC.                                      CS           '0       rime          a    a
400             .                   -4     ''                .4   4                     of   x 
ON'3  .    a                                                       co   go       flZ*@ 
co                                          in            r 43          c 4
LE              0            4-   I C                        43 a    a03 
CD W    *     -ma-Wi    Z,. 13                                             0    0        -4            130           U    1 z
a   a~~~E
'-I-  .4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                .a              --       4.4*             a    a           C
o     arqa  , o4n 4                                        L      A4           -           0               3-     Sp 
9    4~~~0
w bi         nUn~    U              r               to AA                  a                  cm I                     I
01~~
a ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~4               a                 a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
a     9                              PA~~~~~~ a4                                            Ic
U  *~~~~~~~~~a   On      -m       4                     i               a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k  -        a
~~~ ~~~~~  4 ~~~~~~~~..              0~~~~~12 IC. 0n*4@**   I                  le, U In   w  C
C3,SDg2 L-A  -I F Ofa  404        *  4a  a Almas e4 O         .                         ru10 
is  ~a    a  CC    a a                                                                                       ,
o a X~ V                      49    0               4 0               C, 44o   (1 4   4   ud  1                       a  
a  a               a                        02    0                      A to         .43      I
'm  =0  -      f.      - 9      9   &aC~              C,  re                   -4C4 I0           4         A 
3D     4~ fqC4   Q        14    4         S   40         32  s   3 M  ~~t-f             1  o-   4 3        a
*    .~~~~   a   a    .             4*4        a    a~~~~~~  M     4a                      a    4
~~~u*-a  a         -~~~~~~~P,I -          ar- 'a 43    4                     I ZI    l0 a
-   4404       4          .40*84   ~~~~-~'         I-a 4 A    *-= -  M MM  A          O                  a 
Z2    a j                                  Ai~~~~~~~   -
a    g    a  a    a                3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  wI In 1 
I        S4  nfo4   4e G                  3      4                                a    a 4Al   ~     a~
a- -4  fp                         410                                   c Cb*30             -            .- 
*t CW CMD 4f                  .0C        Q-         0 0                        a   co       oa       4.b a
VW ~-.4f4 '                     G04R -4 V    4 ,4444- le                  ~      0~-            m    ik @-4 
iza                 LA 0. .0     ~      ~             I-
*    I     LAW  aI7:                                  4A&Ol to    I                             IV a
3    4    4         4~~~~~~~                                      ~~4 a  -i    a3A   a,        a    I
\;R                                                                               40 C34  be 4  -     gm Go4        N    I 
\r~~~~~o-*~~~~~O  -u  -ic    a   4004  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4  '4~~~..     ..4      Ie00 4     .   a*- 45
aIr *~~~~.4  4~~~9o~~~44  Z. :AD I4 -4  I30                                  1    *i             Is WI
0444         44  n        4                     4     k44. I                      II0'AI.-                               
S. .            4   4 a.4   .                           4                     1 
O'D&a  s    wa U    0    14owl~            "9a OD 4                   14 M   M                    I 8 W   kI    aUt d 
4  "-S   ,            ~                         -   w     - aI4~4 '-  0  a M CU 
OT      a4     0      a4                                        I4  0                     -   4                        



ANNEX 11
Page 1
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.        The financial statements in Annexes 8, 9 and 10 cover the water
supply and sewerage operations in Kathmandu Valley including Lalitpur and
Bhaktapur, and also water supply operations in Biratnagar, Birganj and Pokhara.
The figures for FY1975 and FY1976 have been audited. All other figures are
projections based on WSSB's estimates and the mission's findings. An allowance
of 6% has been made to allow for future price inflation where appropriate.
income Statements (Annex 8)
2.        These are a consolidation of WSSB's and the mission's projections
and incorporate Biratnagar and Birganj from FY1979 and three further towns
from FY1982.
(a) Water Connections
The number of connections upon which the income is based are
as follows:



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Year Ending          Kathmandu and Pokhara             Biratnagar and Birganj
July 15      Metered    Unmetered    Total.   Metered    Unmetered    Total
75          2,300        14,500    16,800        ---          ---         ---
76          4,700        12,900    17,600        ---
77         17,000          6,400    23,400       ---          ---         ---
78         28,600          ---      28,60)       ---          ---         ---
79         33,840                   33,84()     2,040        1,270       3,310
80         39,040          ---      39,040      4,080          640       4,720
81         42,140          ---      42,140      6,170         ---        6,170
82         45,240          ---      45,240)    7,630          ---        7,630
83         48,300           ---     48,300      9,080         ---        9,080
84         51,440           ---     51,440    10,540                    10,540
Three New Towns                      GRAND TOTAL
Metered    Unmetered    Tota]L   Metered    Unmetered    Total
75           ---           ---        ---       2,300       14,500      16,800
76           ---           ---        ---       4,700       12,900      17,600
77           ---           ---        ---      17,000        6,400      23,400
78           ---           ---        ---      28,600         ---       28,600
79                         ---        ---      35,880        1,270      37,150
80           ---           ---        ---      43,120          640      43,760
81           ---            ---                48,310         ---       48,310
82           ---             800       800)   52,870           800      53,670
83          1,400            400     1,800    58,780           400      59,180
84          2,860          ---       2,860    64,840          ---       64,840
(b) Standpipes
These are expected to be as follows:
Kathmandu and Pokhara   Biratnagar and Birganj   Three Towns   Total
1975             1,350                          ---                 ---1,350
6            1,350                           ---                ---        1,350
7            1,350                           ---                ---        1,350
8             1,350                          ---                ---        1,350
9             1,750                          270                ---        2,020
80             1,800                          330                 ---       2,130
1             1,800                          350                ---        2,150
2            1,800                           370                200        2,370
3            1,800                           390                230        2,420
4             1,800                          410                260        2,470



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(c) Sewer Connections
There are at present about 3,000 sewer cornections in Kathmandu
to houses with a water supply and upon the comp:Letion of the
sewerage component of the first Project in FY1978 it is expected
that about 2,000 new sewer connections will be rmade each year.
(d) Water Production
The present system capacity is 16.3 million m .  This is expected
to increase to 24.4 million m in FY1978 when the Pharping Springs
supply being built under the first Project, begins to flow into
tVe system. In FY1979 the system capacity will increase to 31.9
m with the completion of the first Project sources. This will
include 5.7 million m  Srom Pharping, Baniatar and Bansbari
Wells and 1.8 million m from Pokhara Springs. In the same
year, FY1979, WSSB is expected to take over the Biratnagar and
Birganj supplies  increasing the totah system capacity firther
by 5.9 million m from 31.9 million m to 37.8 million m . In
FY1983 it is expected the WSSB will absorb three further towns
and for projection purposes it is estimated that: thS system
capacity of these three towns will be 4.7 million mi3 increasing
the total system capacity of WSSB to 42.5 million m
(e) Water Losses
These are presently assessed at 50% of production and it is
not expected that the situation will further worsen with the
large increases in water production expected in FY1978 and
FY1979. The ongoing work of the waste detection teams, the
progressive metering of supplies and the emphasis on system
rehabilitation in the second project should all help to
prevent further deterioration, and in FY1978 it is expected
that the losses will begin to reduce towards the target level
of 25% set for 1991.
(f) Revenues
Water revenues are projected on the likely demand for water
available after the above figures have been taken into
account and at the rates of charge set out in Annex 12
and with projected tariff increases in FY1979 and also in
FY1981 and FY1983.
Sewer revenues are estimated on the basis of 50% of the
average revenue for a metered water connection.



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Other operational revenue is made up of additional fees calculated
as 6% of billing and other miscellaneous income.
(g) Expenditures - Direct Costs
These are based on actuals for FY1975 and FY1976 increased in
proportion to the increase in connections with an allowance
for price escalation of 6% a year.
(h) Expenditures - Indirect Costs
Administration is calculated as in (g) above but other indirect
costs reflect a provision for bad debts which is calculated at
5% of actual billings up to FY1980 and 2-1/2% thereafter.
(i) Depreciation
This is based on the consultants recommendations for various
rates of depreciation as follows:
Type of Asset                     Rate of Depreciation
Civil Engineering Works                           2
Plant and Equipment                               5
Meters and Similar Equipment                      10
Vehicles                                         20
For the purpose of the projections an average rate of 2-1/2%
of the asset values at the beginning of each year plus half
of that rate for the assets brought into operation during
the year, has been used.
(j) Interest Charged to Operations
This is interest to be paid to HMG on the first IDA credit
and the supplemental credit at 6% and on the proposed IDA
credit at the rate of 9%.
Flow of Funds Statements (Annex 9)
SOURCES
3.   (a)  Government Equity Contributions
These are HMG equity contributions; 25% for the first Proj-
ect, and 30% for the first Project cost overrun, the second
project and a further project in FY1981 to FY1984. In addi-
tion HMG is expected to make small contributions for work
outside the main project of up to NRs 5.0 million a year.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
(b) Equity Increase
The increase of NRs 6.73 million in FY1979 represents the takeover
of the Biratnagar and Birganj assets in that year, and the NRs
10.0 million increase in FY1982, the takeover of three towns in
that year.
(c) IDA Credit
This is the proposed credit for the second project. The first
credit including the supplementary financing and other loans are
shown under 'Other Loans' lower down.
APPLICATIONS
(d) Investment in Project
This is the second project to be constructed duriLng FY1978 to
FY1981.
(e) Previous Project
This is the first Project being constructed during FY1975 to
FY1978 and includes the cost overrun.
(f) Further Project
A further project will be needed during FY1981 to FY1984 and
appropriate projection entries have been made.
(g) Other Work
This is work outside the projects to be carried out by WSSB
from its own resources or from HMG equity contributions.
(h) IDA Credit Amortization
Repayments to HMG of the onlent, supplemental financing are
to be made over 20 years starting in FY1980 and f-or the proposed
IDA credit for the second project are to be made over 20 years
starting in FY1983 after a five-year grace periodl.
(i) Other Loans Amortization
This is the repayment of the onlent first IDA credit which
starts in FY1980 after a six-year grace period.
(j) Operational Interest Long Term Debt
Interest is payable on the onlent first and second IDA credits
to HMG after the grace periods.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
(k)  Increase in Working Capital
This is the increase or decrease in funds required for the
financing of changes in the values of items of current assets
and current liabilities including changes in cash and bank
balances.
Balance Sheets (Annex 10)
4.   (a)  Fixed Assets in Operation
These are listed at replacement values calculated by consultants
in FY1973 which became the opening value of assets for WSSB in
July 1974. These have then been revalued for rate of return
purposes in FY1975 by 16.9%, the rate of increase of the
Kathmandu consumer price index, and then at 6% each year there-
after being the expected local inflation rate. The depreciation
rates have been explained in para 2(i) above.
'b) Work in Progress
Under the first Project there are major water supply and sewerage
works so that work in progress builds up to a fairly large level
before the works are completed and brought into service in FY1979.
However, the works in the proposed second project and a projected
third project are much smaller in individual units and most of
these can be brought into service within the year. From FY1981,
therefore, work in progress is projected at about 50% of the
work carried out during the current year, all other assets being
assumed to have been brought into service during the year.
(c) Accounts Receivable
These have been running at about 35% of billings and it is ex-
pected that improved collection methods will reduce this prog-
ressively to 25% from FY1979 onwards.
(d) Advances
These are for advances to suppliers and staff and have averaged
about 2-1/2% of total operating costs in FY1975 and FY1976, and
have been projected at this percentage.
(e) Inventories
An allowance to increase these by 10% a year plus 6% for price
inflation has been made.
(f) Other Receivables
In FY1975 and FY1976 these averaged about 12% of operating costs
and have been projected at this percentage.



ANNEX 11
Page 7
(g) Equity
When WSSB started operations in July 1974 the assets taken over
from HMG were valued at NRs 39.77 million. This is shown as
equity and is the value of HMGs initial invest:ment in WSSB.
The increases in FY1979 and FY1982 are the value of assets
taken over in those years with the absorption of Biratnagar
and Birganj and then the three towns (see para 3(b) above).
(h) Contributions
HMG is making equity contributions of 25% of the first Project
costs and is expected to make equity contributions of 30% to
the first Project cost overrun, the proposed second project and
any future work.  HMG is also making small contributions to
work being carried on outside the projects (see para 3(a) above).
(i) Revaluation Surplus
Fixed assets in operation have been revalued each year for
rate of return purposes (see para 4(a) above) and the amount
of revaluation added to the value of the assets less an amount
added to depreciation each year is set aside in this account.
(j) Operational Surplus
This is accumulation of the initial operating losses which
are gradually eliminated as surpluses accumulate.
(k) Long Term Debt (Net)
These are the accumulated long term debts arising from the
onlent first IDA credit, the supplemental credit, the pro-
posed second IDA credit and a projected third loan less
repayments in the years from FY1979 onwards.
(1) Accounts Payable and Deposits
These include payments due to suppliers as well as retention
monies on contracts and deposits received from contractors.
In FY1975 these items represented about 2% of investment and
about 5% of direct wages respectively, and have been projected
on the same basis.
(m) Current Maturities
These are repayments of long term debt due to be paid within
the following twelve months.



ANNEX 12
Page I
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF
THE SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Schedule of Present Water Charges
Effective January 15, 1975
The Water Charge for Unmetered Taps
Charge per Month
Size of Tap             First Tap              Other Taps
NRs                     NRs
1/2" 1/                5.00 2/                   3.00
3/4"                  30.00                      6.00
1"                    60.00                     12.00
1-1/8"               170.00                     30.00
2"                   340.00                     50.00
3"                   930.00                    100.00
4"                  1930.00                    235.00
Standpipes
1/2" (Public Tap)   100.00            Paid by His Majesty's
Government
The Water Charges for Metered Taps
Charges per Month
Size of Tap         Minimum Charges
NRs
1/2"                   3.00 3/
3/4"                  20.00
1"                    40.00
1-1/2"               120.00
2"                  :200.00
3"                   600. 00
4"                  1.200.00
1/   The 1/2" charge was introduced on April 15, 1975.
2/   The charge is NRs 9.00 in Kathmandu only.
3/   The charge is NRs 5.00 in Kathmandu only.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
The metered charge for 0-10,000 liters is NRe 0.50 per thousand liters and any
excess over 10,000 liters is NRe 0.80 per thousand liters.
Additional Fees for Late Payments
Up to one month               10%
Over one month                20%



r~   7     -b        r__         _      -    -                                 -                                                                                 8Ad  _ _8
NEPAL
C H I N A                                                                                   APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND
_30   A             A1u-'S>S\- ->-~ X                                                                                                    WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
/.1 "       N;                                    - '- -- -   * _.                                                                         EXISTING  AND  PLANNED  SUPPLIES                                          30'
Ni xPthoragathX   a/  >  >//   t                                                                                             Water Suppies ExistingWor Under Construction
\a  0/y   >   j r  qow  \   37    *-  \   /                                                               o    Towsns and Villages
isDaxSe.Ld/h;r Ai    4                  1 .:/ K ;A  R   1 A   l I-   (__K   Project Area
Don1de44oira ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>  r ~~~~~~~Existinp Roads
r   1  t O   i   -   rS,lgatl D ri[- t  59  )              j                         O         JJm*rl                                                 ----- /  . Roads UJdei Construction
lanokpl 9   5,      /    '   >(/ EriRlot~                                     >1           I{                                                                   a(- ; -     -r ik7 Raays
0Ptiohmaonoma             -  .      -      -                                        - >      J      rN ."'                                                r-r-r-x CoercaCl Aiport
XXa0Matsendr/(norggr   C/N(               '_       1-                                     . ,qCmeca  lpr
rfXt     9 y * I     \N    r;N   N>\,    Dade6                                    DHAyvALAGI,Rl                                                                -      <Rivers
_i' a i$;    t-  Coilekn G~" t---- <                                                                                                        Admin straotve Boundaries
'N  +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    
i8 Katoriu< ~ t              i/    Sa an EanGsar  RAPT   I  ~oGl              A \G N  D WA  K  I
/   V        X G. Nt~~u/tiears pt t O irarliput48  iuisipo       .      /               a I>u ako)        C  Ph4 /.                   .         .>
,neo >Co / >E \<; o;E, rjn0lgoi                c       -. ......... B0u  '.  OPyythrtn  Norst          ~      Pol       /     Erinar  B  A<N'G IN/I A  T  I    \   .  J*N                                                 28-
|       /1               X X~      ~ ~~~N'P/orrstEu, ra             / --   -> \'a          +           a,  __ 5                                               "'2              "tA -+ __a/ g       .z   ~
0 8t ( \; t J :/ 1. X ! X c < -;-' / i ., t t R  A  I                                                     I
t~~~~~                                                   N     Kriot ) _r A                                    '5p,'           N                         o<   i           /.-u|>/a t            kr5   ,<              '|
Lu'                                                                      - | N \           C          )                        t              4 /A  N  /  V' Kuna11 0*9Saihanlj /
Nun/mr      'Ott                         NE         'a~~~~~~~~~~~BaaL
'5       /                  llir                                                                                        r,:        '                                  2; 40__ If  t O  00  'K  I ,a   \,  0 hai0pue
...I____ .... .____._ _ __ ____ Nl D  ___I___ _____ ___      \/  0'    ,',,;,    __ A
(Z             ~~20  4r   401  tO  I"    0  0, .                                                            oiEttrRarntc9  ~0                                                    7y
82' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~' 






/  ~~~~~~~~~~~(AA                kH
(SUNDARIGHAT ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ )SNDRLL
0-~~~~~~~~~~
(SUNDARIGHAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~HATAU
0(boOD,POKHARIHAGPU
0
(HARPING)                                             ~--  
b                                   ~~~~~~~~~~NEAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND
WAT'ER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
KATIIMANDU VALLEY
V                     ~~~~~~~~~~~Ex st ng And Plnnned Wniter SUpplieS
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0






-~~~~~~~~~ U    RA A A TREATMENT Ri AEN                                                                                                              EANEBA              t E
NEPAL                                            AT/ R CE R   TO                                                                         -,   *T./
APPRAISAL OF THE                                                       4 '
SECOND WATER                                                       -
SUPPLY AND                                                                                                                                                           ___
SEWERAGE PROJECT
KATHMANDU AND LALITPUR                           /                                                                                           T WORKS
Existing And Planned Distribution System                  -
TR BUAN ARE  T
TEATMENT WORE5O
't                                                                                                                                                             E-n R.- 'j-L       %        \\
-                                                                                                     -    TEARMEN KS. | iT -REjoN Vieline, NDooi- -,, M,=l-i-
(E-cond Proicot'bRhbd~~
Z    <   W   \  _ = ~~~~~s.              s C   
jSecod P-o1e-
NDi>                                                                                                                                                    a \ BA Siren,, and Rood,
- I N D I ~A-  B U RMAS '                                                                                                                                BotlT-p Areas
SRI LANFA              I                                                          rz*aqssRC                      






________________________                                                                                                                                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD) 126/8
NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND                                                                                        -
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
KATHMANDU AND LALITPUR
Existing  And Planned Sewerage  System
7I         ewsgc T-eo-,en, Pln-  Are  (F,ri, PjA.,iAt)
*  F-rge Pamp,ng Station IF 5rPsaisat)
- FtarrOeeSrr(Frsr Praieet                      -                        -                                   ,           F,  ;*A?~. 
____Esl sting S-rerieS
New  SeI e e       r   i                                                                                                                                                                , aAt  I --
-    .. s-d- Pnaaolr   -                                                                                               -          a.
Pjrpi--  MAi- (First P,.,,,rii
OF*   Sft
b,, f-f A,,,-¢  0,,,,,
6$                    -                           ideA,  s;1iiisa, 
nA                                                                                                                                )    '   °                       ,P   .nE        
-d R..d  ~              ~             ~             ~                           '           '          .                                                              H .......................................................   
< X aS XS.$0lW* ' ib plS \;/ g~~~~~~~
M~~~~~~~~       .*AL0'..J      
z~~~o  *.LL.,x rA  ,,E.0  .i   ,.2     
2 _.A ..  ;i  .t  .&  ................................. Sr  JJ  X*  .A  A/ .............................................................................. 
w                                                                                              9     A     ... ...  ... ... ... ... .........    S       e       .      X. ,i .X -2 AA  ZA \  |  2  /8 /............................................................................9  I  
Sr y\y Uts Jo Ow F Ak ? z |A (r = ubr . 2 < - _ X r > ?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7,  rr   r/-,f - iS t.;;    t . .                           t                        A    X        q        r       g         ;3                   t                       t g     S -   2'* '-       jt 
1X I  NDA              r B       R     A                                                                    U    41!Cj-  i\r                                  
'. I;N;;;leseAl A  rX 4 lOFF
igL#' WAPt U tSUnt m41 {q\\t ECO  T
_         n__                                                                      _    _        _






-        -          -I               . -      --                                                                                                                 -         -          -----------  ------ --   --                                                  ___ --_---IBRD  12619
Iuvj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A7FJFF7 l.7 9177
--A,  -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                          -  -
I                                                             .F                                            ,   -                                  7A7, AdP  DI--
N-  S-mg :,,t,kc ~~h, 77-F                           -                    ,      .     .-f                                           F
*  F                                                                                                              FE                                   .77,7N-                    FE--
IF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ________E, Tr w  i  1






IBRD 12680
BIRATNAGAR                                                                                                                                                         JANUARY 1977
NEPAL
\.   BAKHARI           Secondpo t         Appraisal of the
BAKHARI                                                                                                                                                 SecndWoter Supply and Swrg                          rjc
Jr-                               BIRATNAGAR AND BIRGANJ
I4z I j   0 or ¢             Existing  And  Planned Wcater Supplies
A  Exising tebeweells
.KANCHANBARI                     New rtbewelv S,nond Project)
New reeroir (Second Project
I N DIA              /                  ,-                                                                                                                                            1                      *     Existing reservoirs
xx, .,,,r.,,                                                                                                                                                       - iE'ixrin tn-ri In-srior xxr  -i=-rbntton pipelines,
''~~~~~~   :   ;   5  t  '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ " '~~A                                                                                                                                           dinane;'; terntus in- anan
-~ ~        ~         Y2                                                   Ii                                   HAP
-~~~~~~  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~l                            - ~~~~~~~~~~New trens-issior are distribtol- pipelines,
I,..-.                                                                           t                                                              ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~die-eters in  arm (Second Project)
J,                                                                                                      --- ----- -AJAHU
9vORTH                                                                                                          - ,0005/ streets, IxYxer ro   end trels d r
'j~ ~ ~ ~~~~-S'                                                                              Railway
A~~~~~rorr1  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             - ~~~~~~~~~-~Rive,s
JvTUWA KATHKAHA
UHAPA
0               3000               2000
.~~ ,                                  cv~j~~sixivnu    BIRGA.NU 
-  .   CHAPKAIYA VILLAGES                                                                                                                 R
Je   i    ;   18  "       ')                                                   ''   flg          ~~~~~~~~~         ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~SABAITHAWA  PARSAUNI
.~~~~~~~) ~~~~~~RAMGH,ADWA
lN  iA                          1             .UK '                                                                                                               /  . 
lOt~~                                                          -f-                47\                                       <
I N D I A    i                                                                    ,,     1p,w  ,.v                                                      <  !~
g   .        . r \    ucIaueshts I'NCtc k    (.e, ,,iES l XTo              *   !-  d      \I           ~~~~~~~SRIPUR-                                '
k '    \55Ai el won-t;;ADARSAIHA
u-I   lj~~~ i          RANIGHAT
|t                                   i                                                                     R  5 z   ;>-                         o                                           iOtA
|r           rTOLA<AGAWA                                                                                             AXMANAWA                                  000                     c



