CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 704 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 27, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 27, 1977, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) By Development Credit Agreement No. 470 NEP
(Water Supply and Sewerage Project) dated May 8, 1974 (hereinafter
called the Prior Development Credit Agreement) between the
Borrower and the Association, the Association agreed to lend to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$7,800,000 (hereinafter called the First Credit) to help finance
the project described in Schedule 2 to the Prior Development
Credit Agre-ement (hereinafter called the First Project);
(B) Cost-overruns are expected to occur in connection with
the carrying out of the First Project, and the Borrower has
requested the Association to assist it in the financing of the
said cost-overrun by increasing the amount of the First Credit by
an amount in various currencies equivalent to $4,000,000;
(C) The Borrower and the Association have entered into an
agreement (hereinafter called the Amending Agreement) amending the
Prior Development Credit Agreement to so increase the amount of
the First Credit;


﻿- 2 -
(D) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(E) The First Project is being carried out and the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement will be carried out by
the Borrower's Water Supply and Sewerage Board (hereinafter called
WSSB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to WSSB the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Prior Development Credit Agreement" means the
Development Credit Agreement No. 470 NEP (Water Supply and
Sewerage Project) dated May 8, 1974 between the Borrower and the
Association, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all Schedules to the Prior Development Credit
Agreement and all agreements supplemental thereto;
(b) "WSSB" means the Water Supply and Sewerage Board,
established on November 5, 1973 by Order under the Development
Board Act, 1956, of the Borrower, as amended;


﻿(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and WSSB pursuant to Section
3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(d) "Project-in-Charge" means the chief executive officer of
WSSB;
(e) "fiscal year" means WSSB's fiscal year; and
(f) "NRs" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1987, and ending March
15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or shall
cause WSSB to carry out, the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Project shall be carried out in accordance with
an implementation schedule mutually acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall onlend the proceeds of the
Credit to WSSB under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to
the Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia, that WSSB
shall pay periodically to the Borrower amounts representing:
(a) interest on the principal amount of the loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time at the rate of nine per cent
(9%) per annum which shall commence to accrue five years from the
date upon which the Subsidiary Loan Agreement becomes effective;
and


﻿(b) amortization of the principal amount of the loan over
a period of twenty-five years from the date upon which the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement becomes effective, including a grace
period of five years.
Section 3.03. In order to assist WSSB (i) in the updating of
master plans, the preparation of detailed engineering design and
bidding documents, the evaluation of bids and the supervision of
the construction included in the Project, and (ii) in carrying out
the studies included in Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause WSSB to employ consultants acceptable to the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, cause to
be insured, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower or WSSB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-9-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (i-,luding
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, WSSB's property and equipment, and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, or cause WSSB to take,
all such action as may be necessary to purchase or otherwise
acquire, in accordance with a timetable to be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, all such land and rights in respect


﻿- 10 -
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project,
and shall furnish, or cause WSSB to furnish, to the Association,
when so requested, evidence satisfactory to the Association that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. By December 31,1977, or such other date as may
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
shall cause the tariff study included under Part C.2 of the
Project to be carried out with the assistance of the consultants
referred to in Section 3.03 (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. (a) For purposes of Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall by September 30, 1977, or such later date as
may be agreed to by the Association, submit, or cause to be
submitted to the Association for approval, a detailed program
for training of WSSB staff.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of subsection
(a) of this Section 3.08, except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise mutually agree., the Borrower shall
make or cause to be made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to continue the training of WSSB staff in the
operation of appropriate public utility accrual accounting systems
(including without limitation separate accounting for water supply
and sewerage).


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause WSSB to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of WSSB.
(b) The Borrower shall cause WSSB to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of WSSB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably reque.t.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause WSSB to operate
WSSB's business and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
business, engineering, financial and public utility practices and
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by qualified and adequate staff and to operate, maintain,
renew and repair its plants, equipment and property in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices;
(b) Without limitation or restriction on the generality of
the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall:
(i) cause WSSB at all times to fill the position
of Project-in-Charge with a person of such
qualifications and experience as are appropriate
to such position and acceptable to the Association;
(ii) make arrangements satisfactory to the Association
for the provision of technical assistance to WSSB
in the fields of administration, water supply
system operation and maintenance, water production,
laboratory work, engineering and finance until
the completion of the Project; and
(iii) cause WSSB to appoint qualified Nepalese counterpart
staff to assist the experts referred to in sub-
paragraph (ii) of this paragraph.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause WSSB:
(a) to take all action reasonably required to maintain and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises necessary or
useful in the conduct of WSSB's business;
(b) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice; and
(c) not to sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of
any of its properties or assets which shall be required for the
efficient carrying on of its business, without the consent of the
Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, and without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 4.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that any exemption from the levy of water and
sewerage rates and charges by WSSB shall be made only after
consultation with the Association;
(b) pay water rates and charges to WSSB for all water
consumed through standpipes;
(c) commencing in the fiscal year 1978, cause sewerage rates
and charges to be levied upon all consumers connected to the


﻿- 14 -
sewerage system at a level not less than 50% of the metered water
charges to such consumers, or at such other level as may be
mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Association taking
into account the findings and recommendations of the tariff study
referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(d) cause WSSB to carry out, in fiscal year 1978, a water
and sewer connection survey; and
(e) cause WSSB to make available to the Association for
comment any rules proposed to be issued by WSSB.
Section 4.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall, by the end of
fiscal year 1978:
(i) transfer or cause to be transferred to WSSB as
equity all sewerage assets of the Kathmandu
sewerage system, free and clear of indebtedness;
(ii) transfer or cause to be transferred to WSSB as
equity, all assets of the water supply systems
of Biratnagar and BirganJ, free and clear of
indebtedness; and
(iii) publish or cause to be published in the Nepal
Gazette a notification of the transfers referred
to in subsections (i) and (ii) of this Section.


﻿- 15 -
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take, or cause WSSB to take, from time
to time such action as may be necessary (including, but without
limitation to, adjusting and maintaining rates and charges for
water supply and sewerage services) to provide revenues sufficient
(i) to cover all operating costs of WSSB's water supply and
sewerage services (as defined in subparagraph (ii) (B) of
subsection (b) of this Section 4.06) in fiscal years 1977 and
1978; and (ii) to produce an annual rate of return on the average
value of WSSB's net fixed assets in operation of at least 2% in
fiscal years 1979, 1980, 1981 and 1982, at least 3% in fiscal year
1983, at least 4% in fiscal year 1984, and increasing to at least
6% in fiscal year 1987 and thereafter.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section:
(i) The annual rate of return shall be calculated
by relating the net operating income of WSSB for
the fiscal year in question to the average of the
net depreciated value of WSSB's fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of the
year in question;


﻿- 16 -
(ii) "Net operating income" shall mean the difference
between
(A) gross operating revenues accruing from
WSSB's water supply and sewerage services;
and
(B) all operating costs of WSSB's water supply and
sewerage services, including administrative
expenses, adequate maintenance and provision
for depreciation on all depreciable assets in
operation, based upon the agreed estimated
useful life of such assets, computed in
accordance with the straight-line method, and
excluding interest and other charges on debt;
and
(iii) "Net depreciated value of WSSB's fixed assets in
operation" shall mean the gross value of such
assets, valued in accordance with methods agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, less
accumulated depreciation.


﻿- 17 -
Section 4.07. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not incur, or permit to be incurred, any
debt for the benefit of WSSB unless WSSB's net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for any
later twelve-month period ending prior to the date of such
incurrence, whichever net revenues are the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all debt incurred for the benefit of
WSSB, including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by or
on behalf of WSSB, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by the Borrower, except debt incurred
in the ordinary course of business and maturing by
its terms on demand or less than one year after
its incurrence;
(ii) the term "incur" with reference to any debt
includes any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred
(1) under a contract or loan agreement, on the
date such contract or loan agreement providing for
such debt is entered into and (2) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for


﻿- 18 -
such guarantee is entered into but shall be only
counted to the extent that the underlying debt is
outstanding;
(iii) the term "net revenues" means total revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of WSSB's
rates and charges in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-
month period to which such revenues relate, less
all operating and other expenses, including
adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and
administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(v) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the rate of exchange at which such other
currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the
time such valuation is made, for the purposes of


﻿- 19 -
servicing such debt, or, if such other currency
is not so obtainable at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the
Association.
Section 4.08. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall ensure that,
until the completion of the works included in the Project, any
construction expenditures of WSSB not included in the First
Project or the Project, which would exceed in the aggregate in any
one fiscal year the equivalent of $500,000, shall be made only
with adequate strengthening of the project organization of the
WSSB in consultation with the Association.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE V
Modifications of the Prior Development Credit Agreement
Section 5.01. The Prior Development Credit Agreement is
hereby modified as follows:
(a) The provisions of Sections 4.02 (b) (ii), 4.04, 4.05 (i)
and (iii) (insofar as the provisions of Section 4.05 (i) and (iii)
concern sewerage systems) and 4.06 of the Prior Development Credit
Agreement are replaced respectively by the provisions of Sections
4.02 (b) (ii), 4.04, 4.05 (i) and (iii) and 4.06 of this
Agreement;
(b) The provisions of Section 3.03 (b) and 3.09 of the
Prior Development Credit Agreement, and Part D of the First
Project, are deleted;
(c) Section 7.02 of the Prior Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General-Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of WSSB or for the
suspension of its operations, in such manner as would
materially and adversely affect the carrying out or
efficient operation of the Project; and


﻿- 21 -
(b) the Borrower or WSSB shall have failed to
carry out any of its respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement (Second Water Supply and
Sewerage Project) dated May 27, 1977 between the Bor-
rower and the Association or the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment referred to in Section 3.02 of such Development
Credit Agreement."
(d) Section 7.03 of the Prior Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:
"Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
7.02 of this Agreement shall occur;" and
(e) The provisions set forth under Schedule 3 to the Prior
Development Credit Agreement are replaced by the provisions
set forth under Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of WSSB or for the suspension of its operations, in such manner as
would materially and adversely affect the carrying out or efficient
operation of the Project;
(b) The Borrower or WSSB shall have failed to carry out any
of its respective obligations under the Prior Development Credit
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section
3.02 of the Prior Development Credit Agreement; and
(c) WSSB shall have failed to carry out any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 23 -
(a) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) and (c)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 24 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) WSSB has employed the consultants referred to in Section
3.03 (i) of this Agreement;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and WSSB, respectively, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(c) the Amending Agreement has become effective, or
alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Association have
been made for the financing of the cost overruns expected to occur
in connection with the First Project.
Section 7.02. The following event is specified as an
additional matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to
be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the
Borrower and WSSB, respectively, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and WSSB in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 25 -
Section 7.03. The date August 26, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 through 4.04 and 4.06 and 4.07 of this Agreement and the
provisions of Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of
this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 26 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary to the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 27 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties thereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ P. B. Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿. -  28  -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 2,200,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
and 30% of
local expendi-
tures
(2) Equipment,                  2,100,000
materials,
supplies
and vehicles
(a) directly imported                          100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally manufactured                       100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(c) Other                                      60% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants' Services       1,500,000           100%
(4)  Unallocated                2,200,000
TOTAL    8,000,000


﻿- 29 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 30 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Association or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any
Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of
all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 31 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:*
A.   Water Supply
1.   Kathmandu and Lalitpur:
Rehabilitation of about 4 km of existing
distribution mains, including service
connections, standpipes, gatevalves and
other system facilities and construction of about
48 km of new secondary distribution mains.
2.   Villages in Kathmandu Valley:
Extension of water supply to about ten villages in
the Kathmandu Valley including construction of
about 29 km of distribution mains.
3.   Bode/Thimi (Kathmandu Valley):
Extension of the distribution system by
construction of about 6.5 km of new distribution
mains, and construction of a new service reservoir
with a capacity of about 500 m3.
4.   Pokhara:
Extension of the secondary distribution system by
construction of about 11 km of new distribution
*    All facilities described under Parts A and B below are
incremental to the facilities included in the First Project.


﻿- 33 -
mains, and construction of a new service reservoir
with a capacity of about 500 m3 to replace the
existing Bindhabasini reservoir.
5.   Biratnagar:
(i) Construction of a new tubewell scheme
including two deep wells with a design
capacity of about 4,200 m3/day each.
(ii) Improvement to the existing tubewell scheme
to restore the design capacity of about
3,000 m3/day.
(iii) Extension of the distribution system by
construction of about 34 km of distribution
mains.
(iv) Construction of an elevated service reservoir
with a capacity of about 500 m3, staff
quarters, an office and a laboratory.
6.   Birganj:
(i) Improvements to the existing tubewell schemes.
(ii) Extension of the distribution system
including construction of about 27 km of
distribution mains.
7.   Installation of about 27,000 new metered service
connections (in addition to about 13,000 service
connections being installed in Kathmandu, Lalitpur


﻿-34-
and Pokhara under the First Project) in the
Kathmandu Valley, Pokhara, Biratnagar and Birganj.
8.   Procurement and placing into service of equipment
and tools for maintenance and leak detection,
vehicles and office machines.
B.   Sewerage Systems
Construction of about 9 km of sewer lines in Kathmandu
and Lalitpur.
C.   Studies
1.   Feasibility studies for further stages of the
Borrower's water supply and sewerage development
program in about six provincial towns of the
Borrower to be mutually agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
2.   A tariff study, including a review of WSSB's rates
and charges for water supply and sewerage services.
D.   Training
A program of training of WSSB staff, to be mutually
agreed by the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurements Procedures
Minor works for extension of existing water supply and
sewerage systems, repairs, improvements, house connections and
metering, minor buildings and provision of electricity supplies,
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 each, and
contracts for the supply of minor equipment estimated to cost
less than $50,000 each, may be procured in accordance with
WSSB's usual procurement procedures, or in the case of such
minor civil works, carried out by force account, provided that
the aggregate value of all such minor works and equipment shall
not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.


﻿- 36 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods,
shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to WSSB of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Nepal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a
bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nepal
if the bidder shall have established to the


﻿- 37 -
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Nepal equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group E: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Nepal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bids from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt


﻿- 38 -
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods if such custom duties and taxes exceed
15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category 1 of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit
Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the proceIures
described in Part A of this Schedule, WSSB may grant a margin of
preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Domestic contractors shall be required to prequalify as
to eligibility for preference. Applicants for qualification
shall be asked to provide, as part of the data for qualification,
such information, including details of ownership, as shall be
required to determine whether, according to the classification
established by the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a
particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic


﻿- 39 -
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the
preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by WSSB,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1. Review of prequalification for domestic preference. WSSB
shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association in
detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of domestic bidders, together with a
statement of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part
D above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
such eligibility shall be furnished by WSSB to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified of WSSB's
decision, and WSSB shall make such additions to, deletions from,
or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿- 40 -
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and with respect to any
contract for equipment, materials, supplies or vehicles estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, WSSB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated,WSSB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03 (i) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as


﻿- 41 -
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform WSSB and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
WSSB shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform WSSB and state the reasons for
such determination.


