Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19350
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND) HEALTH, POPULATION AND RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 2217-MLI)
June 1, 1999
Human Development II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 = CFAF 253 (December 1990)
US$1.00 = CFAF 607 (September 1997)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Meuic System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREIVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS             Auto Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AGETIP-Mali    Agence d'execution pour les travaux d interet public pour 1 'emploi
AMPPF            Association malienne pour la protection familiale
ASACO            Association de santa communautaire
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA             Canadian International Development Association
CHPS             Community Health and Population Project
CSAR             Centre de sante d 'arrondissernent revitalise
CSC              Centre de sante de cercle
CSCOM            Centre de sante communautaire
E.U.             European Union
FAC              Fonds d 'aide et de cooperation/French Bilateral Aid
FASEF            Fonds d 'action sociale pour l 'educationfamiliale
FCFA             Franc de la communautefinanci&re africaine
FENASCOM         Federation nationale des associations de sante communautaire
FP               Family Planning
GIE              Groupement d 'interet economique
HSDP             Health Sector Development Program
KFW              Kreditanstait fur Wiederauobau
IEC              Infonnation, Education, and Communication
ICPD             International Conference on Population and Development
IPPF            International Planned Parenthood Federation
MCH              Mother and Child Health
MSPAS            Ministfre de la sante, des personnes dgees et de la solidarite
OED              Organization for Economic Development
MPA              Minimum Package of Activities
PCU              Project Coordination Unit
PDSS             Programme du Developpement Socio-sanitaire
PHC              Primary Health Care
POPFUND          Population Fund
PPM              Pharmacie Populaire du Mali
STD              Sexually Transmitted Disease
INICEF           United Nations Children Fund
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
Vice  sident            :Jean -Louis. Sarbib and CallistoM adavo 
Country Director:                H~~~lasn A. ~Tuluy, AFC 15
Sector Manager:                             Nicholas Burnett, AiFTHZ
Trask TeamLeader:                           AnwarrBach-Baou*ab,AFTH2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                     i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background                                                               1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                                    1
Al. Project Objectives                                                   1
A2. Evaluation of Objectives and Risks                                  2
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                                    3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Implementation.    8
D. Sustainability                                                        8
E. Bank Performance                                                     9
F. Borrower Performance                                                 10
G. Assessment of Project Outcome                                        11
H. Future Operation                                                     11
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                 11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments                                     14
Table 2:    Related Bank Credits                                        15
Table 3:    Project Timetable                                          16
Table 4:    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual       17
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation                   18
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation                        19
Table 7:    Studies Included in Project                                20
Table 8A:   Project Costs                                              21
Table 8B:   Project Financing                                          22
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits                                23
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants                                  24
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements              26
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                               26
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions                                   27
APPENDICES
A. Final mission aide-memoire
B. Borrower's feedback to final ICR
C. Map (IBRD 21988)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THE SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 2217-MLI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Health, Population
and Rural Water Project in Mali, for which Credit 2217-MLI in the amount of SDR 19.2 million
(US$26.6 million equivalent) was approved on March 19, 1991, and made effective on March 26,
1992.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision completion mission of
October 18, 1998. It is based on material in the project file, discussions with all governmental and
non-governmental agencies and partners involved in project implementation, and on site visits in
S6gou and Bla. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by facilitating the
procurement of information needed during the final mission and reviewing and commenting on
the final version of the ICR.
The ICR was prepared by Dounia Loudiyi, Population Economist (Long-term Consultant,
AFTH3) with input from Dr. Fatoumata Traor6-Nafo, Public Health Specialist (Bamako Resident
Mission) in the Africa Region. The ICR was reviewed by Anwar Bach-Baouab, Task Team
Leader (AFTH2), Nicholas Burnett, Sector Manager (AFTH2), Hasan Tuluy, Country Director for
Mali (AFC15), and FlorentAgueh, OS Advisor (AFTS2).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THE SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 2217-MLI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.   Following the Health Development Project (Cr. 1422-MLI) and the Rural Water Supply
Project (Cr. 143 1-MLI/SF7), IDA provided assistance in financing this Second Health, Population
and Rural Water Supply Project (PSPHR). Policy measures and investments included in the
project were developed through a health and population sector dialogue with the Malian
authorities and were informed by experiences gained through the two previous IDA projects.
PSPHR was under preparation for three years (1987-1990), and appraised and negotiated in 1991.
IDA allocated US$26.6 million toward the financing of this project, or 43.3 % of total cost.
2.  Important sectoral challenges were faced by the Government of Mali at the time the project
became effective. These included poor health, population and nutrition indicators, and a
centralized and overburdened public health service delivery system. The early years of the project
found the Government and the people of Mali in a political transition which affected project
implementation. During appraisal, the military dictatorship of twenty years was coming to an
end; just following Board approval, a transition government was put in place for nine months; and
by the time the project became effective, a democratic government had been elected into office.
The Minister of Health appointed after the elections has been actively involved in the
implementation of the PSPHR and has remained in office for most of the duration of the project.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.   Stated project objectives were to (i) increase the coverage and quality of health services
directly for about 1.4 million people in four of Mali's seven regions; (ii) implement the emerging
population policy; and (iii) provide access to safe water for about 180,000 people living in some
of the poorest parts of the four Regions mentioned above and implement an iodination program to
eliminate goiter from among 240,000 people. The development objectives were to alleviate
poverty and improve the economy's supply response to the adjustment process, thus increasing
the health system's ability to become self-sustaining. Unstated objectives aimed at intensifying
Government-Bank policy dialogue on sector development and institutional reform issues and
partnerships with other other donors and civil society.
4.   PSPHR functioned as a precursor to a health sector investment program. It financed three
large components: (i) the health component to increase coverage and quality of health services,
improve the efficiency of the national directorates in charge of planning and managing sectoral
resources, reform the pharmaceutical distribution and procurement system to restructure the
public drug procurement agency and promote private sector participation to increase access of the
poor to a basic package of affordable essential drugs; (ii) the population component to provide



ii
institutional support for implementation of the national population policy, and increase the
demand for, availability, and quality of family planning (FP) services; and (iii) the rural water
supply component to increase the rural population's supply of safe drinking water and combat
iodine deficiency.
5.   These objectives were both ambitious and risky on three levels: (i) expected improvements
in drug procurement and distribution could be slow to materialize; (ii) the required attitudinal
change could also take longer than expected; and (iii) the proposed approach to health care, which
depended for success on community sensitization and participation and on significant cost
recovery, could, after an initial period of enthusiasm suffer setbacks in some project areas. These
risks were mitigated by the Government's commitment to decentralization, and participatory
processes, and by the upfront introduction of the policy reforms and carefully phased
implementation.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
6.   Impact of the health componenst is substantial in terms of structural reforms, investments in
infrastructure and community involvement and uncertain in terms of health related social
behavior. The project contributed to an extension of health coverage through the creation of 98
community health centers (Centres de sant6 communautaires - CSCOM) and the strengthening of
47 arrondissement health centers (Centres de sante d'arrondissement revitalis6 - CSAR), raising
the proportion of the population covered by the Minimum Package of Activities (MPA) with
community management to 48 percent. (Source: SIStMSPAS). Although the proportion of the
population with physical access to primary health care (PHC) facilities has increased nationally
from 3.4 percent in 1993 to 33.4 percent in 1996 (Source: MSSPA 1997), utilization rates remain
lower than those anticipated by the local teams. Lack of household resources, distance and lack of
transportation remain the primary deterrents to increased utilization. Given the depth of the
reforms, these indicators are expected to continue to improve as the new systems take hold and
community involvement broadens.
7.   Impact of the pharmaceutical sector reform component is substantial. Implementation of
this component was slow in the first years of the project, mostly due to the level of sensitivity of
this highly profitable sector and the various public and private entities involved. The 1994 Mid-
Term Review accelerated the reform process leading to a more effective alignment of the sector
with the needs of the poorest segments of the Malian population. While it was initially difficult to
reach stakeholder consensus on the issue of essential drugs, procurement and distribution, a
comprehensive policy framework for this sub-sector has now become accepted and availability of
low-cost quality drugs. has substantially improved.
8.  Impact of the population compcnent is substantial in terms of increased awareness at the
community level, in NGO capacity to manage and implement FP/IEC and in increased
Government capacity to monitor demographic trends. Impact in terms of modem contraceptive
prevalence is moderate. The 1996 Demographic and Health Survey estimates that 86 percent of
the female population is aware of at least one contraceptive method, compared with 42.5 in 1987.
Utilization is increasing in project areas with the modem contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) now
reaching 7.9 percent, against a target of 8.5 percent.
9.   Impact of the rural water component is substantial. Some 485 wells were drilled and
equipped with hand pumps for use by more than 400,000 people in remote rural areas, more than
doubling the project's target of 180,000. Another 600 wells were rehabilitated, improving access



iii
to safe water for more than one million people. The success of this component is attributable to:
(i) an active and generalized involvement of the communities and Malian private sector in the
building and maintenance of the wells; (ii) the understanding, by the communities, of the link
between clean water and their overall health status; and (iii) the substantial reduction in the water
fetching burdei., especially for women and young girls.
10.  Impact of policy and sector reform objectives are substantial. PSPHR introduced
innovative approaches into Mali's health system, building on and supporting the Government's
own public sector reform. The project supported a governmental shift from centrally managed
and funded PHC system to one fully run and managed by communities. In addition, the project
was instrumental in strengthening NGO capacity and participation and enhancing donor
coordination and complementarity, paving the way for a co-financed sector-wide development
program. Beneficiary surveys and focus groups indicate a high level of awareness, amongst the
populations served, of the structural changes that have occurred in the management of health care
service delivery. However, the process of community engagement is in need of continued
attention and monitoring.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
11.  PSPHR played an important role in the restructuring and decentralization of the health
sector in Mali. Its long-tenn sustainability is based on the elements of synergy, complementarity
and continuity in its design and implementation. While PSP:HR has laid the foundation for a
substantial reform of the health sector, financial sustainability (national and community levels)
remains uncertain. PSPHR has also set the stage for implementation of the Health Sector
Development Program (HSDP) which will benefit from the lessons learned from PSPHR in terms
of community management of health services and collaboration among development partners in
the country.
(a) 12. In order to achieve long-term sustainability, progress made during previous health
and population projects as well as during the implementation of PSPHR, needs continued
attention, additional investments and monitoring. The recently approved HSDP
(December 17, 1998) intends to respond to this demand by providing continuity in
support to the Government of Mali in its reform of the health sector; and by expanding
access to basic health services to the majority of the population.
13.  Key Lessons
* An established legislative and regulatory framework is a prerequisite in decentralizing
health care services. In a context where Government is engaged in public sector refonn,
including decentralization, a project needs to be supportive of these principles and build on them,
to reinforce the Government's own processes and involvement in all sectors. Projects need to
confront the issue of government ownership, donor diversity and multiplicity and include all
partners in project monitoring. As a result, the project can be effective in laying the groundwork
for a successful transition from a project to an integrated sector program approach. Project
outcome must be measured not only through trends in immediate health indicators, but also on the
basis of the project's structural contribution towards the overall health sector reform. Monitoring
and final evaluation tools need to measure such progress or lack thereof. Regulatory mechanisms
need to be put in place to monitor the financial management of the community health associations
and the regular renewal of their boards.



iv
* Gaps in human resources and iinstitutional capacity need to be evaluated during project
appraisal and addressed throughout project lifecycle, with measurable impact. Decentralization
and the shift to community-based management have a multiplying effect on issues of training and
deployment of health professionals. A national health policy aimed at decentralization of health
care service delivery and cost recovery to the communities must ensure that these communities
are sustainably trained and equipped to manage the operation of their health centers. In order to
affect health outcomes, the community health approach must continue to build the capacity of
communities to provide preventive care and health education to complement and reduce the cost
of curative services. To address the issue of communities' capacity to manage and staff their
health care services, it is important for this type of project to include a comprehensive, multi-year
human resource development strategy encompassing training, curriculum development and
management.
* Consistent community engagement must be ensured. Rural populations with limited or no
access to health facilities benefit greatly from the shift to community-financed and managed
health centers that also provide an adequate supply of essential generic drugs. The creation of a
federation of the ASACO (FENASCOA4) sets the basis for a transition in the provision of support
and supervision of the community-based health structures to a national body accountable to the
communities. This body serves as an intermediary in policy dialogue with Government as well as
an instrument for building capacity in community management. It is necessary that an inclusive
process of unequivocal engagement of women and youth in community health management be
built in the process at the district and provincial levels.
*  NGO capacity needs to be strong enough to support the decentralization process. The
creation of NGO funding mechanisms strengthens NGO capacity and brings them into the
decision making processes. Dispersion of impact due to the multiplicity of NGOs on the ground
needs to be mitigated by giving support to NGO management and service delivery capacity and
coordination of activities. The federative movement of health associations that has emerged in
Mali enhances solidarity among associations and provides the necessary technical assistance to
strengthen their capacity and leverage resources.
* Donor coordination is effective when Government leads and owns the process. By
providing support to Govermment's leadership in donor coordination, a multi-sectoral project,
such as PSPHR, can steer the way for effective collaboration between the Bank and Government,
as well as with development partners. Through the involvement of partners in the implementation
of project sub-components, a multi-sectoral project highlights the diversity of approaches of each
donor and then provides a space for consultation where complementarity can be identified for the
benefit of a harmonious support to the health policies of the country. Although often challenging,
such a process enhances the potential success of future sector-wide programs.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THE SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 2217-MLI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BACKGROUND
1.   At the request of the Government of Mali, and following the Health Development Project
(Cr. 1422-MLI) and the Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. 143 I-MLI/SF7), IDA provided
assistance in financing this Second Health, Population and Rural Water Supply Project (PSPHR).
Policy measures and investments included in the project were developed through a health and
population sector dialogue with the Malian authorities and were informed by experiences gained
through the two previous IDA projects. PSPHR was under preparation for three years (1987-
1990), and appraised and negotiated in 1991. IDA allocated US$26.6 million toward the
financing of this project, or 43.3 % of total cost. Contributions by local communities for
construction costs (US$2.8 million, or 4.6%) and budgetary allocations by the Government
(US$1.7 million, or 2.7%) total US$4.5 million equivalent, or 7.3% of project cost. Financing of
the remaining US$30.3 million was anticipated to come from (a) EDF (US$12.3 million, or
20.1%); (b) USAID (US$10.1 million, or 16.5%); (c) FAC (US$1.7 million, or 2.8%); and (d) the
Republic of Germany (US6.2 million or 10.0%). The Kingdom of Belgium, UNICEF and
-INFPA were to continue their ongoing programs (technical assistance, community development
training, and IECIFP) which were reoriented to complement the project. FAC financing was
reduced from the US$1.7 million initially pledged to US$ 10,000 for the pilot phase. All partner
contributions were realized through parallel financing.
2.   Important sectoral challenges were faced by the Government of Mali at the time the project
became effective with poor health, population and nutrition indicators, and a centralized and
overburdened public health service delivery system. During the first year of project
implementation, Mali experienced political turmoil which led to the election of a new government
and set the stage for a series of reforms. While the govemmental shift and political transition
caused some delay in the initial phase of the project, the reforms which ensued have made a
significant contribution to the effectiveness of the project and have also benefited from it. Prior to
the early 1 990s policy shift, the health and population sector faced five levels of challenges: (i) a
long-standing tradition of centralized management and public financing; (ii) a structural
adjustment program which had initially led to a substantial reduction in budgetary allocations to
the social sectors, especially those of the health sector; (iii) a geographically dispersed rural
population; (iv) a weak organizational and management capacity at the community level; and (v)
an important and diverse but uncoordinated level of intemational assistance programs.
A.  STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Al. Project Objectives
3.   The main project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to (i)
increase the coverage and quality of health services directly for about 1.4 million people in the



2
four most populated regions of Mali and the district of Bamako; (ii) implement the emerging
population policy; and (iii) provide access to safe water for about 180,000 people living in some
of the poorest parts of the four Regions mentioned above and implementing and iodination
program to eliminate goiter from among 240,000 people. The development objectives were to
alleviate poverty and improve the economy's supply response to the adjustment process, thus
increasing the health system's ability to become self-sustaining. The PSPHR was designed to
implement the Government's new national health policy and increase the availability of health
services in five of Mali's nine regions (Koulikoro, S6gou, Mopti, Kayes and Bamako).
4.   Unstated objectives of the project aimed at intensifying health sector policy dialogue
between the Government and the Bank, among bilateral and multilateral agencies intervening in
the sector, civil society organizations, and the private sector. The project sought to develop a
consortium of donors to capitalize on complementary strengths for a program approach that
addresses systemic issues faced by the sector.
5.   To achieve these objectives, the project financed three components: (i) the health
component to increase coverage and. quality of health services, improve the efficiency of the
national directorates in charge of plaLnning and managing sectoral resources, reform the
pharmaceutical distribution and procurement system to restructure the public drug procurement
agency and promote private sector participation to increase access of the poor to a basic package
of affordable essential drugs; (ii) the population component to provide institutional support for
implementation of the national population policy, and increase the demand for, availability, and
quality of FP services; and (iii) the r_ral water supply component to increase the rural
population's supply of safe drinking water and combat iodine deficiency. The population
component of the project was implernented nationwide. The water component was implemented
in the Kayes region; and feasibility studies were conducted in the other project regions.
6.   Under each component, the project aimed at addressing the following main constraints:
(i) health sector: limited access to and poor quality of health care; inefficient use of sectoral
resources; low health manpower productivity; lack of drugs and sectoral financing; (ii)
population and fatnily planning: an emerging population policy that recognizes the social and
economic development implications of rapid population growth; and the limited demand for and
availability of family planning services; (iii) rural water supply: generalized country-wide the
policy already implemented under the previous IDA-financed Rural Water Supply Project; direct
involvement of villagers in the improvement campaign and awareness raising on the health
benefits of safe drinking water.
A2. Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
7.   The objectives of the project were realistic. The project took into account lessons leamed
from the two previous IDA-financed projects. The Government of Mali is pursuing the goal of
"Health for All" through the promotion of primary health care (PHC) with three key elements of
its sectoral strategy: (i) decentralization of health services management; (ii) implementation of
the essential drug (ED) policy; and (iii) cost recovery. Intermediate objectives were to expand
coverage, improve quality, and rationalize sectoral resource use. As a prerequisite to achieving
these objectives, the Government inte:nded to refocus its role away from service provision toward
its strategic, policy, management and support functions, improvement of the quality and
efficiency of first level referral care, and the promotion of public health. This strategy was
developed through a policy dialogue conducted with IDA during project preparation and endorses
the basic principles of the "Bamako Initiative".



3
8.   The three main risks were identified during appraisal: (i) expected improvements in drug
procurement and distribution could be slow to materialize; (ii) the required attitudinal change
could also take longer than expected; and (iii) the proposed approach to health care, which
depended for success on community sensitization and participation and on significant cost
recovery, could, after an initial period of enthusiasm, suffer setbacks in some project areas.
Except for behavioral changes, these risks were mitigated by the Government's commitment to
decentralization, participatory approaches, and by the upfront introduction of the policy reforms
favoring prevention, delivery of integrated primary health care and carefully phased
implementation.
B.   ACHMEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Health Component
9.   Impact of the health component is substantial in terms of structural reforms and physical
outputs, and uncertain in terms of health related social behavior. Despite a relative increase in the
project areas, access to primary health care (PHC) services and utilization rates remain below
anticipated outcome. According to the beneficiary survey conducted in 1997 (source: MSPAS),
lack of financial resources is, by far, the most cited reason (48 percent of respondents) for not
turning to health centers, while 17 percent cited distance and lack of transportation as the main
deterrents. The same survey indicates that 59 percent of the beneficiaries view the new structures
as "different in essence and organization" from the previous structures. The project contributed to
an extension of health coverage through the creation of 98 community health centers (CSCOM)
and the strengthening of 47 arrondissement health centers (CSAR), raising the proportion of the
population covered by the Minimum Package of Activities (MPA) with community management
to 48 percent. (Source: SIS/MSPAS).
10.  First level referral services have been strengthened by building and equipping 21 district
health centers (Centres de Sante de Cercle - CSC) and training of primary reference level staff.
Because of difficulties in mobilizing resources under E.U. financing, physical infrastructures were
completed at a late stage of project implementation which preempted activities targeted at
improving service delivery at that level. This task will be undertaken under the follow-up
operation (HSDP).
11.  PSPHR introduced and established the concept of community health sector, to complement
govemment health services where local committees manage the centers and medical and para-
medical staff are no longer employed by the Government but by the community. Funding was
awarded on a competitive basis to districts, contingent on their meeting eligibility criteria for a
five-year district health plan. With the support of PSPHR, the overall number of community
health care facilities increased dramatically. As of early 1998, nearly 347 community health
centers had been established, a third of which were built with funding from PSPHR and the rest
with support from partners and Government. At the national level, the proportion of the
population living within 15 kilometers of a community health facility increased from 17 percent
in 1995 to 39 percent in December 1997. In the area of PSPHR intervention, the figure is 48
percent (MSSPA 1998, World Bank, OED, 1998). In terms of actual utilization of services in
project areas, the OED study highlights the increased utilization of both curative and preventive
services and largely attributes it to the creation of the new community health centers.



4
12.  The community health component contributed to an extension of health coverage through
the creation of 98 CSCOMs and the strengthening of 47 arrondissement health centers (CSAR),
raising the proportion of the population covered by the Minimum Package of Activities (MPA)
with community management to 48 percent. The vision that underlies the community health
policy which led to the creation of the CSCOM and the establishment of community management,
has been tested on the ground through the implementation of this project. This has demonstrated
the strong interest, on the part of the Malian population, in independently managing local health
services. Communities feel that they are in control even though community structures still require
support and regular supervision in this transition. In this regard, a federation of the ASACO
(FENASCOM) has been created and could play an important role in supporting communities in
their management efforts as well as 'act as a dialogue partner with government and donors on the
legal and regulatory framework for ASACOs, the sustainability of CSCOMs and the allotment of
public subsidies.
13.  Although it was not specifically cited among project objectives, female and youth
participation in community management is a requisite for any participatory process. It ensures
not only the success but also the sustainability of community management. This is particularly
true in the case of primary health care where women play the central role and are the main
consumers. In this regard, existing ASACOs and their federative body, the FENASCOM, are
structurally weakened by the lack of an active adult female representation and participation. This
situation could undermine the sustainability of the community management process. It is
necessary, at this point, that an inclusive process of consultation aiming at the unequivocal and
generalized engagement of women and young adults in community health management, be
initiated at the district and provincial levels.
Reform of the pharmaceutical sector
14.  Impact of the pharmaceutical sector refonn component is substantial. It succeeded in
meeting all of its objectives despite the severe political and social resistance it encountered
throughout implementation. The sector has been entirely restructured towards a more efficient
management and has ensured an effective match with the needs of the poorest segments of the
Malian population. While it was initially difficult to reach stakeholder consensus on the issue of
essential drugs, procurement and distribution, a comprehensive policy framework for this sub-
sector has now become accepted and availability of low-cost quality drugs has substantially
improved.
15.  The high cost and irregular supply of essential drugs, especially to the rural areas,
constituted a major and long-standing constraint to sector efficiency. Reform of the sector leading
to efficient distribution systems of aflordable essential drugs was viewed as central to the
effectiveness of the community health approach. The challenges were significant as the reform
process threatened the status and interests of one of the largest and most powerful parastatal in the
country, the Pharmacie Populaire du Mali (PPM) which held a monopoly on the importation and
sale of drugs. The high demand for dmgs, despite their prohibitive price, generated enough profit
for the Government to feel reluctant about reforming the sector.
16.  The magnitude of the proposed restructuring and strong resistance on the part of the PPM
contributed significantly to the initial slow pace of reform. A phased introduction of these
reforms through a series of Government/PPM contract agreements (Contrats-Plans), partially
financed under IDA credit, succeeded in alleviating resistance to change. Private and non-profit
drug suppliers were able to establish themselves as a result of the liberalization of the sector. In



5
addition, generic drugs are procured and supplied to district and community health centers
through a Malian nonprofit organization: GIE - Sant6 pour tous. PPM began purchasing
essential generics through international competitive bidding by 1993, as part of the PSPHR. By
1997, and in response to public demand, private pharmacies began selling generic drugs.
17.  Contrary to the prevalent situation in the early phase of the PSPHR, essential drugs are
currently available in all health service delivery facilities. Guidelines for supplying drugs were
negotiated and then agreed upon with all partners including the private sector and have been in
place and operational for three years. This sector has benefited from support from CIDA, E.U.
and the Bank. This cooperation among the three partners has had a positive impact on the sector.
Shortages still occur, mostly due to the continuing challenge of adequately estimating the actual
needs of the population in essential drugs. The sector continues to face difficulties related to the
central system of control and the slow contracting processes. These issues should be addressed in
the context of the recently negotiated Health Sector Development Program (HSDP).
Popuation Component
18.  Impact of the population component is substantial in terms of increased awareness at the
community level, in NGO capacity to manage and implement FP/IEC and in terms of increased
Government capacity to monitor demographic trends and national family planning programs.
Institutional support was provided to assist the government in finalizing, disseminating and
operationalizing its population policy. In 1996, and following the Cairo International Conference
on Population and Development (ICPD, 1994) and the Beijing Conference on Women (1995),
Government broadened the scope of its national population policy to emphasize reproductive,
mother and child health within the community health care system. This component was financed
in partnership with USAID's Community Health and Population Project (CHPS) and UNFPA.
USAID funding for this project was doubled in 1994 to US$40 million. Implementation involved
national and international NGOs through community based distribution activities, social
marketing, contraceptive logistics and management and training.
19.  Impact in terms of modem contraceptive prevalence is moderate. According to the 1996
Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), 86 percent of the total population, and 67.5 percent of
women, are aware of at least one contraceptive method. Although the 1987 DHS does not provide
this data for the entire population, the level of awareness for women was estimated at 42.5
percent. The project target of 8.5 percent modem CPR countrywide by 1997 was not fully met. It
increased from 1.3 to an average 7.9 percent for all women between the ages of 15 and 49, and
remains at 3 percent in the rural areas. In Bamako, the prevalence rate for all contraceptive
methods is 23 percent and 16 percent for modem methods. Demand did increase as a result of the
project but the various NGO and donor activities on the ground were insufficiently coordinated to
effectively address the needs of community health centers in matters of family planning and
reproductive health. It is expected that, with the resulting almost universal knowledge of modem
contraceptive methods and increased efficiency in service delivery, more systematic coordination
among NGOs, and a more active participation of women in the management of health centers,
contraceptive prevalence will continue to increase, especially in the rural areas.
20.  In partnership with UNFPA and USAID, the project contributed to governmental and non-
governmental institutional capacity building in the area of population policy and service delivery
through financial support and technical assistance to: (i) the Population Department of the
Directorate of Planning for capacity building, dissemination of the findings from the 1994 Cairo
International Conference on Population and Development; the Family Health Directorate, within



6
the Ministry of Health (social marketing, community contraceptive distribution systems, IEC, and
training); and (iii) the Association malienne pour la planificationfamiliale (AAMPF), the national
affiliate of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF).
21. The Fonds d 'action sociale et d 'educationfamiliale (FASEF) was established in 1993 with
funding from KFW, the EU, USAII) and IDA. IDA provided US$400,000 for management
support. The creation of this first social fund in the country was an effort to respond adequately to
NGO proposals to fund population related projects. FASEF was designed as a flexible
mechanism to provide grant financing to the public, non-govemmental and private operators for
the implementation of the population policy, while facilitating aid coordination and monitoring.
As such, it established a favorable environment for the inclusion of civil society and the broader
NGO community in health sector issues. It also reaffinns the political commitment to encourage
NGO participation in the health sector.
22. As the first fund in Mali to channel resources from Government to NGOs, FASEF
experienced difficulties in its start-u;p, mostly in terns of its capacity to manage the number of
projects being implemented. In addition, USAID withdrew from FASEF to work directly with
NGOs and created a parallel organization, the Groupe Pivot, to provide direct financing to local
organizations. As a result, NGOs with sufficient management capacity received direct USAID
funding through the Groupe Pivot and FASEF was left to work essentially with those local groups
that had the weakest structures. Nonetheless, FASEF funded more than 40 projects and
contributed greatly to the increased capacity of those organizations it funded.
Rural Water Component
23.  Impact of the rural water component is substantial. Four hundred and eighty five wells
were drilled and equipped with hand pumps for use by more than 400,000 people in remote rural
areas, more than doubling the project's target of 180,000. Another six-hundred wells were
rehabilitated, improving access to safe water for more than one million people. Community-
elected water committees and cost recovery mechanisms for pump maintenance and repairs have
been established and will require additional support and supervision to ensure their sustainability.
KFW complemented IDA's support of this component by financing the construction of 47 wells.
The success of this component is attributable to: (i) an active and generalized involvement of the
communities and Malian private sector in the building and maintenance of the wells; (ii) the
understanding, by the communities, of the link between clean water and their overall health status
and (iii) the substantial reduction in the water fetching burden, especially for women and young
girls.
24.  Within the rural water component, an experimental activity to iodize surface water was
developed with the support of the French Government (US$ 0.5 million) and implemented by
Rh6ne-Poulenc. This program testecl the assumption that the use of slow releasing capsules of
iodine into surface water wells could lead to a significant decrease in the prevalence of goiter.
This method however proved not to be cost-effective and difficult to replicate nationwide. It was
discontinued and, with support from UNICEF, replaced by a simpler method of iodizing salt.
25.  One of the novelties and benefits of the rural water component is the opening of
maintenance contracting to the private sector in Mali. This resolved, to a great extent, the long-
standing problematic issue of imported parts. However, companies in Mali still encounter
contracting difficulties due to their limited financial capacity. It would be useful to revise these



7
contracting constraints in the context of the HSDP to allow low-capital businesses in Mali to
compete for these markets.
Policy and Sector Reform
26. Impact of policy and sector reform is substantial. PSPHR introduced innovative
approaches into Mali's health system, building on and supporting the Government's own public
sector reform. The project supported a govermnental shift from centrally managed and funded
health services to a full-fledged community-run health system. In addition, the project was
instrumental in supporting donor coordination, paving the way for a coordinated and sector-wide
development program and in strengthening NGO capacity and participation.
27. Donor Coordination: PSPHR has steered the way for effective collaboration between the
Bank and Government, as well as with development partners. Most importantly, PSPHR
provided support to Government's renewed and reinforced leadership in donor coordination in the
sector. This is best illustrated by the effective collaboration with UNICEF which supported the
health community component and the process of decentralization to health districts (Plan
quinquennal de developpement sanitaire de cercle). Collaboration with KFW which supported
the building of health centers and the functioning of CSCOMs, was also exemplary. In terms of
coordination between multi-lateral and bilateral donors, the PSPHR first highlighted the existing
diversity in approaches and then provided a space for consultation where complementarity could
be identified for the benefit of a harmonious support to the health sector policies of the
Government of Mali.
28.  Some activities initially programmed under E.U. financing experienced clear delays. They
were intended to assist in the building, strengthening and equipping of 21 district health centers
(CSCs), and training of primary reference level staff. Based on different criteria than those
adopted during project design, the EU commissioned a feasibility study which led to a
reevaluation of costs. As a result, only nine CSCs were built during the last year of the project
through EU financing with the Bank contributing to the building and equipment of the remaining
twelve CSCs. Operationalization of the centers could not occur within PSPHR's timeframe and
has been placed as a high priority under the HSDP. Learning from this experience, the Bank
introduced a higher level of flexibility in its ensuing activities in the sector, taking the position of
donor of last resort to cover gaps in financing health system development. More specifically, the
Bank has moved from a classic investment project to a Sector Investment Project (SIP) which
provides for a holistic approach fully supported by a consortium of donors and based on a
medium-term framework to address health sector priorities.
29. Human Resource Capacity for the health sector remains a matter of concern for the
Government of Mali as well as the partners. Achievements in this area under PSPHR are less than
optimal and are the result of a combination of factors. Neither the 1990 national health policy nor
the PSPHR properly addressed, in their conceptualization, the issue of training and deployment of
health professionals. This was an attempt to give priority to the most acute constraints of
essential drugs and provision of health services to the rural populations. On the other hand,
training had been included under USAID and E.U.-supported activities. Implementation of the
E.U. financed training activities was delayed as part of the above-mentioned re-design of the E.U.
funded component and was initiated in the final year of the project's life. Training under USAID
activities was largely limited to family planning and reproductive health. In order to fill the gap,
staff employed by the Ministry of Health have continued to be assigned to CSCOM which is in



8
contradiction with the principle of community-managed health centers. If maintained, this
practice could jeopardize some of the gains of the community health approach.
30.  The issue of human resource development has been flagged by both the Government and
the Bank as critical to continued progress in the health sector. Given the on-going
decentralization process and the adopted community approach, the challenges in human resource
development are multiplied in terms of size and type training required, while constrained by
budgetary allocations. The diversity of actors involved in the health sector (public, private, and
community) requires a multi-faceted human resource development policy. Thus, under the HSDP,
support will be provided to strengthen academic and continued-training programs, to decentralize
human resource management and to ensure that qualified and motivated personnel are able to
serve at all levels of the health system through improved career development and employment
statutes.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
Three major factors developed during the course of the project which could have seriously
derailed implementation: (i) the change in political leadership; (ii) the devaluation of the FCFA
(1994); and (iii) the emergence of the AIDS epidemic as a health priority calling for a
rechanneling of funds.
31.  Further to the political events discussed in Section F that influenced the early years of the
project, the devaluation of the FCFA in January 1994 had a substantial effect on implementation
for several years. This, combined with the ongoing structural adjustment process, contributed to
the increased pressure being placed on the Government to focus on health sector reform and adopt
emergency measures to accelerate the shift from specialty drug procurement to generic essential
drugs and from curative to preventive services. Effective collaboration between the project team
and the Government, coupled with increased supervision efforts on the part of IDA headquarters
and field staff, ensured that implemeintation stayed on course. As a result, despite the political and
financial upheavals, the process of decentralization of health services remained steady and
community health centers became operational.
32.  The rapid spread of the AIDS epidemic had an effect on project implementation through the
reallocation of project funds to address the epidemic. Funds were reallocated under the
population component to reinforce the response capacity of the national AIDS program and to
strengthen research and monitoring of the evolution of the disease.
D.   SUSTAINABILITY
PSPHR has played an important role in the overall development of the health sector in
Mali. Its long-term sustainability is based on: (i) a continued decentralization process; (ii)
consistent community engagement; (iii) maintaining and monitoring of cost recovery mechanisms
for financial sustainability; and (iv) irnproving management of public resources allocations.
33.  Sustainability of the decentralization process is likely given the current political stability
and Government commitment. Through the establishment of a district-based approach to the
provision of a minimum package of PHC and a first level referral procedure built on community-
managed health facilities, the project provided impetus and support to the overall national
decentralization policy. Community management structures and modalities can be utilized as



9
pilots for broader decentralized management processes. The experience of the health sector may
also generate valuable lessons for further implementation of the governmental plan to
decentralize.
34.  Financial sustainabilitv remains uncertain. As a share of total consolidated government
recurrent expenditures, public health spending increased from 7.82% in 1994 to 8% in 1996,
reaching 10% by 1997. While such an increase in domestic resources and their improved
management should result in better operations of the sector, resources remain insufficient to
address the unmet needs of the vast majority of the population and to support a significant
expansion of health service provision. It is expected that, in the long tenn, continued progress in
the quality of services, more efficient use and better allocation of public resources as well as
stronger community management capacity will result in a substantial increase in use of facilities
and will ultimately lead to their financial sustainability. In the medium term, given the
circumstances of the country and the required investment needs, Mali will continue to rely on
external funding to achieve its health development objective.
35.  Sustainability of community engagement is likely provided the momentum is maintained in
terms of participation, and human resource and management capacity. In many instances, the
community health centers established with the support of PSPHR have become development
poles within the villages they serve. In terms of consumer awareness regarding availability of
services, the 1997 beneficiary survey indicates that it is highest for vaccinations (25 percent),
child delivery (15 percent), pre-natal care (15 percent), and pharmacies (12 percent). As such,
they can provide the basis for additional decentralized efforts in other sectors, such as basic
education, female literacy and civil society participation. However, the sustainability of the new
structures depends on the level of mobilization of the communities in time, including women and
youth, and their continued interest in participating in the process.
E.   BANK PERFORMACNE
36.  Bank performance was satisfactory. The project as identified was consistent with the
Bank's assistance strategy (CAS) and the Government's own strategy presented in the Letter of
Sector Policy of December 15, 1990. It was consistent with, and built upon the first Health
Project (Cr. 1422-MLI), and the Rural Water Supply Project (Cr. 1431 & S7). The preparation
period for this project was lengthy (3.5 years), as was the period between the Board and
effectiveness (1 year). During appraisal, the military dictatorship of twenty years was coming to
an end; just following Board approval, a transition government was put in place for nine months;
and by the time the project became effective, a democratic government had been elected into
office. Implementation progress ratings dropped to "unsatisfactory" for a period of six months in
1992/1993, and, following stepped-up supervision, went back to "very satisfactory" by the end of
1993. The chronic disbursement lag recorded throughout the project was largely due to the very
slow start of the project in 1991-1992.
37.  Once started, implementation of the project was smooth. During the initial phase of the
project, which coincided with the country's political transition, high tum over in Bank task
managers proved counterproductive, leading to a decision to ensure continuity in task
management responsibility and increasing Bank technical support at the Resident Mission level.
The Bank Task Team Leader has remained unchanged since early 1993 and a Public Health
Specialist was recruited at the Bamako Resident Mission to ensure close working relationships
with Malian counterparts and accurate monitoring of progress on the ground. Time allocated to



10
supervision was significant with fourteen supervision missions carnied out over the eight year
implementation period.
38.  The Rural Water Supply component was cited in 1993 as a "Success story for IDA 10" for
its benefits to Mali's poorest populations (especially women and children) through the provision
of cost effective, hand pumped wells maanaged by communities. An amnendment to the
Development Credit Agreement to reallocate funds into a special account for the FASEF was
signed in April 1994.
39.  Joint Government/partners annual. progress reviews were regularly conducted and a mid-
term review (MTR) took place in February 1995 with the participation of representatives of the
co-financing institutions involved in the project as well as other bilateral and multilateral
organizations active in the health field ouitside the project area. This provided a useful forum for
discussion and analysis of some of the rmajor elements of the project and initiated a process of
regular coordination among all partners in the sector. This has paved the way for a collaborative
approach in the design of the follow-up HSDP. The MTR identified three broad sets of
institutional, operational and administrative constraints which had contributed to the project's
slow implementation. Delays were related to: (i) the slow staffing process of the PCU and late
release of USAID funds (end 1992); (ii) a longer than expected preparation time for the health
district plan; and (iii) the still long and overly centralized financing procedures.
40.  The MTR expressed concern about delays in implementation of important steps in the
project and stated the need to urgently address constraints. It issued detailed recommendations for
central, regional, district and local levels, highlighting: (i) the need for increased central level
coordination and support to regional and district levels; (ii) a speedier process of decentralizing
planning, programming and managemernt functions, coupled with additional training and human
resource availability for the regions; (iii) provide for increased consultations and coordination
with donors; (iv) shift objective emphasis from "coverage expansion" to that of "active
community participation"; (v) reinforce the availability of essential drugs at regional and health
center levels; (vii) proceed with the reform of the pharmaceutical sector, especially the immediate
implementation of the PPM "contrat-plan" and improved donor coordination regarding the
financing of essential drugs. All recommendations were taken into consideration in the design of
the following year's program of activity and budget.
F.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.  Performance of Government was satisfactory. Following the initial delays largely due to
the above-mentioned lengthy political transition, the incoming government was committed to the
adoption and implementation of a health sector strategy which was not necessarily pre-determined
by donor-based geographical zonings. The Minister of Health appointed after the elections has
been actively involved in the implementation of the PSPHR and has remained in office for most
of the duration of the project.
42.  Gaps and weaknesses have been identified in terms of project management and attempts to
redress them have been met with varying degrees of success. The coordination plan included the
assignment of three managers from the ministry's technical departnents to oversee each of the
project's sub-component. However, only the rural water component was actually managed under
a permanent structure of the Ministry of Rural Water, while the population and health components
had to be managed by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Audit reports were often submitted



11
with more than three months delay, and they were often qualified, triggering a suspension warning
telex once at the end of 1994.
G. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
43.  Project outcome is rated as satisfactory in terms of meeting the quantitative targets, its
structural contribution to health sector refonn, capacity building for health sector NGOs and
community participation. The project had a positive impact on the population; laid the foundation
for structural reforms of the health sector; achieved the reforn of the pharmaceutical sector; and
fully engaged the communities. One of the main contributions of the project is to have provided
the Government of Mali the support it needed for a complete conceptualization of its sectoral
policy. It has also set the stage for a successful implementation of the HSDP which will benefit
from the lessons learned from PSPHR in terms of community management of health services and
close collaboration among development partners in the country.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
44.  The health status of the majority of Mali's population, especially those living in remote
areas and those with little or no resources, remains a great concem for both the Government of
Mali and the Bank. In order to achieve long-term sustainability, progress made, especially
structurally, during previous health and population projects as well as during the PSPHR, needs
continued attention and monitoring, as well as additional investments. Future operations need to
maintain strong macroeconomics and health sector dialogue with Govemment and regular
monitoring of Public Expenditures, promote national solidarity mechanisms, mutual health
insurance financing, and expand access to the poorest.
45.  In this regard, the HSDP recently approved by the Board (December 17, 1998) aims to
respond to this demand by (i) providing continuity in support to the Government of Mali in its
reform of the health sector; and by (ii) expanding access to basic health services to the majority of
the population. Sector-wide activities under the program aim to:
*  Expand access to sustainable quality health care, including reproductive health and nutrition
services;
*  Strengthen the institutional capacity for health system management; and
*  Develop sustainable financing schemes for health sector development with safety nets for the
poor.
1.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.  The project showed that rural populations with limited or no access to health facilities
benefit greatly from the shift to community-financed and managed health centers that also provide
an adequate supply of essential generic drugs. Some of the key lessons learned from this project
are the following:
*  An established legislative and regulatory framework is a prerequisite in decentralizing
health care services. In a context where Government is engaged in public sector reform,
including decentralization, a project needs to be supportive of these principles and build on them,
to reinforce the Govemment's own processes and involvement in all sectors. Projects need to
confront the issue of government ownership, donor diversity and multiplicity and include all
partners in project monitoring. As a result, the project can be effective in laying the groundwork



12
for a successful transition from a project to an inclusive program approach. Project outcome must
be measured not only through trends in immediate health indicators, but also on the basis of the
project's structural contribution towards the overall health sector reform. Monitoring and final
evaluation tools need to measure such progress or lack thereof. Regulatory mechanisms need to
be put in place to monitor the financial management of the community health associations and the
regular renewal of their boards.
* Gaps in human resources and institutional capacity need to be evaluated during project
appraisal and addressed throughout project lifecycle, with measurable impact. Decentralization
and the shift to community-based management has a multiplying effect on issues of training and
deployment of health professionals. A national health policy aimed at decentralization of health
care service delivery and cost recovery to the communities must ensure that these communities
are sustainably trained and equipped to manage the operation of their health centers. In order to
affect health outcomes, the community health approach must continue to build the capacity of
communities to provide preventive care and health education to complement and reduce the cost
of curative services.
*  Consistent community engagement must be ensured. Rural populations with limited or no
access to health facilities benefit greatly from the shift to community-financed and managed
health centers that also provide an adequate supply of essential generic drugs. The creation of a
federation of the ASACO (FENASCON/[) sets the basis for a transition in the provision of support
and supervision of the community-based health structures to a national body accountable to the
communities. This body serves as an intermediary in policy dialogue with Government as well as
an instrument for building capacity in community management. It is necessary that an inclusive
process of unequivocal engagement of women and youth in community health management be
built in the process at the district and provincial levels.
* NGO capacity needs to be strong enough to support the decentralization process. The
creation of NGO funding mechanisms strengthens NGO capacity and brings them into the
decision making processes. Dispersion of impact due to the multiplicity of NGOs on the ground
needs to be mitigated by providing support to NGO management and strengthening service
delivery capacity and coordination of activities. The federative movement of health associations
that has emerged in Mali enhances solidarity among associations and provides the necessary
technical assistance to strengthen their capacity and leverage resources.
Donor coordination is effective when Government leads and owns the process. By providing
support to Government's leadership in donor coordination, a multi-sectoral project, such as
PSPHR, can steer the way for effective collaboration between the Bank and Government, as well
as with development partners. Through the involvement of partners in the implementation of
project sub-components, a multi-sectoral project highlights the diversity of approaches of each
donor and then provides a space for consultation where complementarity can be identified for the
benefit of a harmonious support to the health policies of the country. Although often challenging,
such a process enhances the potential success of future sector-wide programs.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES



14
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                  O             0             0               0
Sector Policies                03             O              0              O
Financial Objectives            O             0              O              Q
Institutional Development       O             0              0              0
Physical Objectives            El             0               l             El
Poverty Reduction               0             (E]            0              0
Gender Issues                   O             0             0               O
Other Social Objectives        O             El                             0 E
Environmental Objectives       0m             0             n               o
Public Sector Management       0              0l            0               0
Private Sector Development      0             1              0              0
Other (Partnerships)           [E             0             0               0
Other (Innovation)             0              E 0                           El
Other (Voice/Participation)    E3             0             0               E
B. Project Sustainability         ikl                 Unlikel                Uncertain
[E                     El                     E
Hfighly
C. Bank Performance               satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                 01                    E                      
Preparation Assistance          0                    0                      El
Appraisal                       El                   [E                     0
Supervision                    0                     El                     0
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                 satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                             E            0              El
Implementation                          El           0              E
Covenant Compliance                     El           0             0
Operation (if applicable)               0             0            E
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
ElO0                        El              0



15
Table 2: ]Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title             Purpose             Year of approval       Status
Preceding operations
1. Health Development    Help Govt. improve the      November 1983       Completed. PCR
Project                  effectiveness of primary                        dated December
health care services and                        1, 1992.
support systems at both the
national and regional levels.
Focus on 3 dlistricts in
Western Mali.
2. Rural Water Supply    Help Govt. iimprove living and  November 1983   Closed. PCR
Project                  sanitary conditions (boreholes,                 dated December
hand pumps) in the project                     13, 1995.
area in Western Mali.
3. Structural Adjustment    Support adjustment program,   President's Report   Completed. ICR
Credit                   focussing on private sector  dated 7/1/90.      dated May 20,
incentives and public resource                 1996
management, including an
increased budget allocation
for expenditure in health.
4. Public Enterprise Project  Included measures relevant to  May 1, 1988  Completed. ICR
(Cr. 1937-MLI)           the pharmaceutical sector                       dated June 19,
reform.                                        1996
Following operations
1. Health Sector Investment Help Govt. (i) expand access   December 1998  Pre-appraisal:
Program                  to basic health care; (ii)                      10/97A
improve health care system;                    Appraisal: 7/98
(iii) accelerate fertility                     A
decline; (iv) improve internal
resources mobilization.                        Negotiations:
11/98
Board: 12/98



16
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle             Date Planned        Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                           9/30/86
Preparation                                       4/88               3/27/89
Appraisal                                         7/88               4/4/89
Negotiations                                     10/28/88            12/10/90
Letter of Development Policy                                         12/15/90
Board Presentation                               12/15/88            3/19/91
Signing                                           1/89               5/3/91
Effectiveness                                     4/89               3/26/92
Midterm review (if applicable)                    1994                3/95
Project Completion                              6/30/1997            6/31/98
Credit Closing                                  12/31/1997           12/31/98



Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91     FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal Estimate     0.6       4.0      10.2      15.4     19.6     23.6      26.2      26.6
Actual                 0.0       3.1      5.0       9.0      13.9      19.3     22.7      24.7
Date of Final                                                                             3/30/98
Disbursement



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key indicators in the SAR          Estimated                Actual
1. Health districts meeting project  21                     30
funding eligibility criteria
2. Total population covered by     1,400,000 inhabitants    1,512,868 inhabitants
CSCOMs
3. Number of CSCOMs established    145                      145
4. Number rehabilitated! constructed    5                   5 (of which I is financed by
regional health directorates                                ADB)
5. Number of district health centers    21                  23
(district hospitals) constructed
6. % of children less than 1 year old   40 %                30 %
fully vaccinated
7. Assisted delivery rates        40 %                      40 %
8. Prenatal coverage               60 %                     47 %
9. % women knowing modem
contraceptive methods:
- rural                       50 %                     59.3 %
- urban                       75 %                     87.6 %
10. Contraceptive prevalence rates  8.5 %                   7.9 %
11. Average cost of prescription  400 FCFA                 500 (rural area)
1,500 (urban area)
12. Availability of essential medicine   Entire country     Entire country
13. Number of referral systems    21                        5
developed                                                  _
14. Access to potable water:
- Establishing boreholes        385                       450
- Rehabilitation/ boreholes     500                       622
15. Number ofj obs created         400                      561
16. Number of staff trained        6,000                    5,739



19
Table 6: Keys Indicators for Project Operation
SAR Indicators                   Planned               Achieved
1. Decentralized planning and programrrming  x              x
capacity building
2. Setting-up a computerized health    x                    x
information system
3. Integration of health activities (developing  x          x (MPA /CSCOM and
a minimum package of activities or MPA by                    CSC)
level)                             _                 _
4. Reorganization of the Pharmacie Popu.laire 250            170
du Mali (PPM):
4.1 Staff reduced to                   x                     achieved
4.2 Abandoning all activities not related to    x            achieved
medicines
5. Review of the list of medicines every 2    x             x
years
6. Populations' Management capacity    x                    x
building and empowerment
7. Coordination among cofinancing partners  x               x
8. Establishment of a financing mechanism    Creation of the  Fonds d 'Action Sociale
for NGO and private sector sub-projects  POPFUND            et D 'Education
Familiale (FASEF)
9. Developing appropriate borehole     x                     x
management mechanisms



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as Defined at       Status           Impact of Study
AppraisallRedefined
1. Hospital Studies--    Legal Covenant 3.04 (a):  Completed    *  Hospital reformn
including action plans-- to carry out Part A of the              *  Autonomy of
covering financial,   Project                                       national hospitals
organizational and
staffing considerations.                                         *  New administrative
status for hospitals
2. Study on the labor    Legal Covenant 3.04 (a):    Completed (1991)  *  Assessment of
market for graduates in  to carny out Part A of the                 human resource
health-related fields.    Project                                   capacity to respond
to community health
needs
3. Longitudinal study    To document project's      1995         *  Input into the mid-
during 2nd phase of    impact on morbidity and                      term review
project.             mortality.
4. Potable Water     To assess expansion of a                    Government request to
Feasibility study    drilling program to other                  IDA to finance free
regions.                                   standing potable water
project.
5. Institutional     To analyze the             Bids in January
Capacity Building    institutional capacity in      1997
Study                the socio-sanitary sector
6. Study on District                                1997
Health System
Financing
7. Beneficiary survey                               1997         Contributed to policy
adjustment in the
context of the SIP



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimuate (SDR million)                        Actual/Latest Estiniatc**
Item           Local Costs   Foreign Costs    Total*    Local Costs ($)   Foreign Costs ($)             Total
1. Civil Works             2.52           3.12          5.64          6.92             3,38           USD 10.3        SDR 7.3
2. Equipment, vehicles     0.40           2.70          3.10          3.22             2.34             5.56            3.8
and materials
3.Medical supplies         0.0            1.80          1.80          .54               .88             1.42             .9
4. Consultants' services   1.40           2.15          3.55          2.12              1.5             3.62            2.5
5. Training                0.54           0.26          .80           1.08              .05             1.13             .8
6. Operating costs         0.74           1.13          1.87          1.90              0.0             1.90            1.4
7. Goods and services      0.33           0.11          .44            .30              0.0             .30             .2
8. Unallocated             0.33           1.67          2.00                                            0.00             .0
SA-A                                                    0.0           .39                               0.39             .3
SA-B                                                    0.0           .06                                06             .04
TOTAL                     6.26          12.94          19.2         16.53             8.15             24.68          17.24
*DC
** Paid Withdrawals, Controllers as of 8/13/98



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                         Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local Costs    Foreign Costs       Total          Local Costs      Foreign Costs           Total
Source
IBRD/IDA                 6.6             20.0           26.6               6.6              20.0                26.6
Cofmancing Institutions
EuropeanDevp.Fund        4.1             8.2             12.3              4.1              8.2                 12.3
USAID                    4.4             5.7             10.1                                                   40.6*
Republic of Germany      2.0             4.1            6.1                2.0              4.1                 6.1
(KFW)
French Bilateral Aid     0.1             1.6             1.7
(FAC)
UNICEF                   0.0             0.0             0.0                                207.929.000 FCFA
Local Contribution       1.4             1.4            2.8                1.1              0.6                 1.7
Government               1.1             0.6             1.7               1.4              1.4                 2.8
TOTAL                   19.7            41.7            61.3                                                   90.1
* During project life, USAID amended its grant agreement with the Government several times, under implemilentation of its Community Health and
Population Services (CHPS) which was considered as USAID's contribution to the HPRWP. Most of these funds served for financing teclnical assistance
provided by more than ten American NGOs.



23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
During Project Preparation, no economic rate of return (ERR) or net present value of the project was prepared.
Therefore there is no baseline with which to compare actual estimates.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised                            Description of                                  Comment-s
type     status  fulfillment  fulfillment                         covenalnt
date        date
Hlealth     3.02     05          C                   Ongoing      Procurement shall be made in accordance with Schedule 3     Complied with
3.03 (a)  09        C        11/30/1991  12 SPN      The borrower and IDA to exchange views on progress achieved    12 Supervision missions, with
and on     missions (see from time to time, and in any case no later than November 30 of    IDA/Borrower participation took
Table 13).   each year the Project is being executed,                    place over project life.
3.03 (b)  09,10     C        Sept 1992 - 01/94, 02/95, Prior to exchange as specified in para. (a) of this section, and no
1997       02/96,03/97, later than Sept. 30 of each year, the Borrower shall furnish the
02/98       following documentation satisfactory to IDA: (i) progress report, (ii)
project implementation plan for the following year, (iii) MSPAS's
current and next budget; and (iv) MSPAS's revised three-year
rolling investment and current expenditures program.
3.03 (c)  09        C        1994        03/24/95     To exchange views, the Borrower and IDA are to conduct a project Evaluation of strategy.
mid-term review to assess progress achieved and potential for  Recommended that well be drilled
applying results to other areas of Borrower's territory    in CSCOMs and that project
activities be extended to the 35
cercies of the regions covered.
3.04 (a)  12        C        9/30/91     04/97        To carry out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall (a) submit to  Hospital refonn will continue
IDA studies, inclusive of action plans, under TORs satisfactory to   within HSDP, on the basis of
IDA, on the following: (i) efficiency of hospitals, including  studies carried out in 1997.
fiuancial, organizational and staffing aspects; and (ii) the labor
market for graduates in health-related fields.
3.04 (b)  12        C        3/31/92                  Carry out the action plan specified in para (a) of this Section and
agreed upon with IDA.
3.04 (c)  10        C                                 Duly perform, and cause PPM to duly perfonn, the respective  All obligations under the PPM
obligations under the PPM Contract-Plan                     Contract-Plan have been duly
performed.
3.04 (d)  10        C        N.A.        N.A.         Except as agreed with IDA, not tak-e any action to have the effect of This covenant was fully respected.
amending, abrogating or waiving the PPM Contract-Plan or any
provision thereof.
3.04 (e)  03        C        N.A.        N.A.         Litnit the provision of financial assistance under the part of the  This covenant was fully respected
project related to SSC, SSA, and COMIHC, meeting criteria set forth



in Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
3.04 (f)  13         C       9/30/91                  Except as agreed with IDA, ensure that for the term of the Project,  All tenns of the PPM Contract-Plan
price of essential drugs sold by PPM be based on: (i) Bamnako price were duly fulfilled.
of such drugs, as published in most recent issue of UNIPAC
Catalogue and (ii) margin to be agreed with IDA on the basis of
provisions included in PPM Contract-Plan.
3.04 (g)  13                 H1/1/91                  A sufficieiCt number of essential drugs be made available at the level
of PPM's warehouses in the entirety of Borrower's territory.
3.05 (a)  10,04                                       A cash contribution of at least CFAFI 35,000 to be paid by users'   This covenant was fully respected.
associations no later than one month prior to beginning of works.
3.06     05                  N.A.        N.A.         Borrower shall mahitain for Project durationi a Project Coordination
niiit and employ personnel whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to IDA, to
fill the f'ollowing positions: Director; Deputy Director, Procurement
Speciafist; Acco'tant; five regional accountants; and support staff.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                               8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
from beneficiaries                           10. = Project implementation not covered by
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds               categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                          I. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
5. =  Management aspects of the project or                resource allocation
executing agency                             12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. =  Environmental covenants                             regulatory/institutional action
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                     13. = Other
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC= not complied with



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
BORROWER COMPLIED WITH ALL OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                 Planned               Revised                       Actual
Weeks       US$       Weeks      US$           Weeks               US$
Preparation to Appraisal        N.A.        N.A.        N.A.      N.A.                   146.8              248.6
Appraisal-Negotiations          N.A.        N.A.        N.A.      N.A.                   108.1              228.6
Negotiations through Board      N.A.        N.A.        N.A.      N.A.                    18.8               43.2
Approval                                                           _ 
Supervision                     65.5         133.5      214.2     459.0                226.43            * 588.70
Completion                                                  .                .__
TOTAL                          65.5         133.5      214.2     459.0                500.13              1109.1
*Actual to date, i.e. 12/16/98
Source: COSR5 1



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performanc
e Rating
Stage of Project Cycle    Month,/   Number   Days         Staff Skills    IP   DO                          Types of
Year       of       in        Represented                                       Problems
Persons   Field
Through Appraisal
Identification
Preparation I
Preparation 2            12/87      2         12      HPE
Appraisal through Board
Approvale
Supervision
1             11/91      2         12      ARC, ECN             2     1    Not effective; Audits not contracted; Counterpart funds
I not budgeted
2             2/92       3         8       ECO, EGR, MSP        2     1    PCU at a standstill; Preparation committee ineffective;
Donor coordination failing; Civil works agency not yet
__________    _________      assigned.
3             6/92       2         5       ECO, EGR             3     2    PCU director not namned; Launching seminar not held;
New government just installed.
4              10/92     4         14      ARC, ECO, HPE,       3     2    Project Director nominated; Launch seminar begun;
PPN                              Project start-up activities in process.
5             1/93       5         11      PPN, ARC, HPE,       3     2    PCU hampers civil works and procurement; MOH
ECO, MSP                         incapacity; Opposition to decentralization
6             6/93       2                 PPN, MSP             2     2



7             11/93     6         6       PPN, ARC, HPE,       1     1    10 district health plans ready; PPM restructuring: reduce
HPE, MSP, SOC                   personnel to 200; counterpart funds need to be allocated;
8             3/94      3         10      PPN, HPE, MSP        1     1    Donor coordination improved, but FED civil work
program behind schedule; Donor coordination for
procurement of essential drugs; FCFA parity change;
9             10/94     2         11      PPN, MSP            S     S    Availability of essential drugs; Donor coordination still
l_______ ________          _________________Ilacking in training and civil works programs.
10 Midterm Review    2/95       4         10     PPN, MSP, HPE,       S     S    Medical and dental clinics not yet privatized; no clearly
HPE                             defined system of distribution of drugs;
11            7/95      2          10     PPN, HPE             S     S    Lack of progress in civil works of health centers;
Financial and accounting capacity of PCU; FASEF to
coordinate beuer with NGOs (only 9 projects initiated).
12            3/96      3          12     PPN, HPE, PUR        S    S    EU-funded civil works still behind schedule; FASEF
behind schedule
13 (No Form 590      2/97      5         12      HPE,PPN,PRO         N.  N.A.  Referral system not yet working (EU grant)                 00
prepared)                                                         A.
14            11/97     2          10     PPN, PPN             S    S    Closing date extended to 12/31/98; no Aide-memoire in
files.
15            2/98      3          10     PPN, PPN, ARC        S     S    First-level (23) referral centers not yet operational due to
lack of training and management needs.
Completion        10/18     3          19     ECN, PPN, HPE        _
ARC: Architecture
ECN: Economics
EGR: Engineering
HPE: Health and Medical
MSP: Management
PPN: Population/Demography
PUR: Public Relations
SOC: Sociology



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
Republique du Mali
Projet Sante Population et Hydraulique Rurale (PSPHR)
(Credit 2217-MLI)
Mission de Fin d'execution du projet
18 octobre - 2 novembre 1998
Introduction
1.   Une mission de Fin d'execution de projet a sejourne au Mali du 18 octobre au 2 novembre
1998. Cette mission a ete menee par Mme. Dounia Loudiyi, Economiste de la population, en
collaboration avec Dr. Fatoumata Traor6-Nafo, Specialiste en sante publique et avec le soutien, en
debut et fin de mission, de M. Anwar Bach-Baouab, Charge des programmes de sante pour le
Mali. Le travail de la mission a par ailleurs b6neficie de I'appui du Dr. Sanogo, Coordonnateur
Technique du PSPHR qui a e  designe comme point officiel de contact au niveau du PSPHR pour
la mission de Fin d'execution du projet. La mission a souligne l'obligation, de la part du
Gouvemement du Mali, de pr6parer son propre rapport synthetique de fin d'execution du projet
qui sera joint au rapport de la Banque. Les modalites de redaction et presentation de ce rapport
national ont ete discutees avec l'6quipe du PSPHR. Une reunion de restitution aupres de Mme
Diakite Fatoumata N'Diaye, Ministre de la Sante des Personnes Agees et de la Solidarite
(MSPAS). a eu lieu le 30 octobre 1998, en presence de Mimes Grace Yabrudy, Representant
R6sident de la Banque mondiale au Mali, M. Lanceni Konate Conseiller technique et Cheick H.
Simpara, Directeur du PSPHR et Dr. Traor6-Nafo, Banque mondiale. Les principales conclusions
du present aide-m6moire ont e  soumises verbalement a Madame le Ministre lors de cette
reunion.
La mission saisit cette occasion pour adresser ses vifs remerciements a madame le Ministre, a
l'6quipe du projet ainsi qu'a l'ensemble des personnalites rencontrees pour leur disponibilite et
leur contribution de qualite.
Objectifs
2.   Conformement aux procedures habituelles de la Banque mondiale, I'approche suivie par la
mission consiste a: (i) apprehender de maniere aussi complete que possible I'atteinte des objectifs
du projet tels que definis initialement en accord avec le Gouvemement du Mali; et (ii) relever les
enseignements tires de 1'execution du projet afin d'en tenir compte dans les actions futures de la
Banque mondiale en matiere de sante au Mali.
Contexte general de la mission
3.   Cette mission de fin d'execution se situe a une etape fondamentale du processus de
preparation du programme d'investissement sectoriel (PRODESS). Elle intervient apres la table
ronde du mois de juin 98, au terme de laquelle 1' ensemble des partenaires du secteur se sont
engages pour le cofinancement dudit programme et la perspective des negociations entre la
Republique du Mali et la Banque mondiale, pour la mobilisation de la contribution de l'IDA,
prevues les 4, 5 et 6 novembre 1998.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
4.   II est important de souligner que les principaux enseignements tires de la mise en ceuvre du
PSPHR, sur la base des etudes conduites pendant le processus de preparation du PRODESS, ont
consid6rablement aide A la definition des; axes strat6giques prioritaires de la prochaine operation
de la Banque dans le secteur de la sante au Mali. Les recommandations et enseignements de la
presente mission constitueront des complements indispensables et contribueront au processus
initial de recentrage de certaines strategies.
Deroulement de la mission
5.   La mission a rencontre les representants des agences gouvernementales impliquees dans
l'elaboration, la mise en ceuvre et le suivi du PSPHR. Elle a egalement tenu des reunions
techniques avec les representants des principaux organismes non-gouvemementaux ainsi que de la
Federation Nationale des Associations de Sante Communautaire (FENASCOM). La mission a
rencontre les representants des principaux partenaires au developpement, co-financiers du PSPHR.
Enfin, la mission s'est rendue dans la Region de Segou et le Cercle de Bla ouj elle a visite des
Centres de Sante communautaires (CScom). Lors de cette visite, outre les reunions fonnelles avec
les directeurs regionaux de la Sante et de l'Action Sociale, le m6decin-chef du cercle, le personnel
des CScom, et les membres des Associations de sante communautaire (ASACO), des discussions
informelles ont eu lieu avec les utilisatrices des services de sante et les matrones. Une reunion
speciale a e tenue avec la Sage-femme regionale et secretaire administrative de l'Association de
sages-femmes de la Region. Outre les documents de base concemant directement l'execution du
PSPHR, la mission a grandement beneficie des divers rapports d'etudes entreprises dans le cadre
de la preparation du PRODESS et qui font reference aux realisations du PSPHR.
6.   La mission a passe en revue les divers volets du PSPHR au regard des objectifs quantitatifs
et qualitatifs initiaux du projet. Elle s'est particulierement attach6e a une revue des indicateurs de
sante, des indicateurs des comportements en matiere de sante et des mesures d'acces aux soins de
sante primaires et les taux d'utilisation des services de sante, surtout dans les zones rurales
recul6es. Enfin, la mission a porte une attention toute particuliere aux roles de soutien et
d'accompagnement du projet lui-meme et de la Banque mondiale a la politique sectorielle en
matiere de sante du Gouvemement malien.
Enseignements et recommandations preliminaires
7.   Au debut de la mise en ceuvre de la politique sectorielle de santb et de population, le secteur
se trouvait confrontee A des defis importants, dont: (i) une longue tradition de gestion centralis6e
et de financement public; (ii) une situation macro-economique en phase d'ajustement structurel
qui a, dans un premier temps, reduit les allocations budgetaires destinees aux secteurs sociaux, en
paiticulier celles destinbes au secteur de la sante; (iii) une grande dispersion geographique de la
population rurale; (iv) une faible capacite d'organisation et de gestion, au niveau communautaire;
(v) des interventions extemes d'assistance, d'un volume et d'une diversite importants, rendant
leur coordination difficile.
8.   La composante sante communautaire a permis l'extension de la couverture sanitaire
grace a la creation de 98 CSCOM et la revitalisation de 47 Centres de sante d'arrondissement
(CSAR), portant le pourcentage de la population couverte par le Paquet minimum d'activites
(PMA) avec gestion communautaire a 48 pourcent. Cependant, malgr6 les efforts foumis tant par
le projet lui-meme que par les partenaires au developpement, tout au long de son execution, les
indicateurs de sante et de comportement en matiere de sante, l'acces aux soins de sante primaire et
les taux d'utilisation au plan national, demeurent en-de9a des resultats escomptes. 11 a ete



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
toutefois d6montr6 que, pour les aires de sante oiu une ASACO existe et est correctement
accompagnee, ces indicateurs sont sensiblement meilleurs (Source: SIS/MSPAS).
9.   La vision sous-jacente de la politique de sante communautaire qui a mene a la creation des
CScom et etabli le mode de gestion communautaire a e  testee, puis a demontre l'int&et des
populations rurales maliennes a gerer les services de sante locaux. Les communautes se sentent
responsabilis6es et maitresses de leur situation sanitaire. Les structures communautaires
continuent toutefois de necessiter un accompagnement et une supervision reguliers en cette phase
transitoire. La creation de la FENASCOM pourrait contribuer au renforcement de cet
accompagnement par les communautes elles-memes et comme instrument de dialogue avec les
instances gouvemementales.
10.  Bien que n'etant pas citee de maniere explicite dans les objectifs du projet, la participation
feminine A la gestion communautaire est implicite dans toute procedure participative. De plus,
une participation adequate de la population feminine assure la durabilit6 du succes de la gestion
communautaire. Ceci est particulierement vrai pour la gestion des soins de sante primaire oiu les
femmes jouent le r6le principal et en sont les premieres utilisatrices. A cet egard, les ASACO
actuellement en place sont structurellement affaiblies par l'absence, en leur sein, d'une
representation adequate et participation active de la population adulte feminine. Cette situation
met en danger la durabilit6 du processus de gestion communautaire. n convient que les
responsables nationaux et non-gouvemementaux, entament une s6rie de reflexions au niveau des
cercles et regions, incluant les utilisatrices, dans le but d'instruire un processus national
d'engagement de la population feminine dans le cadre de la decentralisation sanitaire et de la
politique de sante communautaire.
11.  En depit des difficultes d'ordre politique et social rencontrees, le secteur pharmaceutique
a e  profondement restructure vers une gestion plus efficace et une meilleure adequation avec les
besoins des populations les plus demunies. C'est ainsi que, desormais, la liste des medicaments
essentiels est pleinement acceptee par tous les acteurs du secteur. Le medicament essentiel est
disponible dans toutes les structures de prestation de soins. Le schema directeur
d'approvisionnement en medicaments convenu avec l'ensemble des partenaires, y compris le
secteur prive, est operationnel depuis 3 ans. Ce secteur a beneficie de l'appui de l'ACDI, de l'UE
et de la Banque mondiale. Cette cooperation entre les trois partenaires a eu un impact tres positif
sur le secteur pharmaceutique. Il persiste encore quelques ruptures de stock liees aux difficultes
de maitrise des besoins nationaux en medicaments essentiels. D'autres problemes que connait le
secteur pharmaccutique sont lies aux contr6les SGS et a la lenteur des procedures de passation des
marches qu'il convient de resoudre pour une bonne execution du PRODESS.
12.  Le projet a demontre une reelle volonte de partenariat, illustree par la collaboration avec
l'UNICEF qui est intervenu pour soutenir le volet sante communautaire et l'effort de planification
decentralis&e aux districts sanitaires (Plan de developpement socio-sanitaire de cercle). Au niveau
de la coordination entre partenaires au developpement, le PSPHR a permis de mettre en relief la
diversite d'approches des partenaires en place et a entrepris de faciliter le dialogue en vue d'un
soutien harmonieux A la politique sectorielle de sante du Gouvemement du Mali. Toutefois, les
activit6s initialement prevues sous financement de l'Union Europeenne
(construction/revitalisation et equipement de 21 Centres de sante communautaire et formation de
personnel du premier niveau de r6ference) ont connu d'importants retards dans leur mobilisation.
Seule la construction de 9 CSC a ete entreprise en demiere annee, apres une reevaluation, de la
part de l'UE, des coats et de la faisabilite de ces activites selon des criteres differents de ceux qui
avaient ete utilises au moment de la preparation du projet, la Banque mondiale ayant pris une part



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
dans la realisation et l'equipement des 12 CSC restants. Cette experience a mend la Banque
mondiale a inclure un plus grand degre de flexibilite dans le financement de ses activites futures
dans le secteur.
13. Enfin, la question de la capacite du Mali en ressources humaines pour la mise en couvre de
la politique sectorielle de sante demeure sans nul doute la preoccupation centrale tant du
Gouvemement du Mali que de tous les partenaires au developpement. Elle est inscrite de maniere
prioritaire dans le cadre du PRODESS.
14. La mise en ceuvre de la composante population a fortement mis A contribution les
organisations non-gouvemementales (ONG) tant locales qu'intemationales par l'intermediaires
des activites de distribution abase communautaire (DBC), marketing social, le Fonds d'action
sociale et d'6ducation familiale (FASEF). Bien que la prevalence contraceptive nationale
n'atteigne que 7 % (contre 8,5 % attendu), les differents sous-programmes ont pernis d'atteindre
dans leur zone s'intervention des taux de prevalence variant entre 15 et 30 %.
15.  Le volet hydraulique rurale a atteint ses objectifs de creation/rehabilitation de forages.
Un des apports de ce volet aura ete l'ouverture des marches de maintenance aux secteur prive
malien, cc qui a largement r6solu la question des pieces detachees importees par le passe.
Cependant, les compagnies maliennes connaissent encore des difficultes liees a la faiblesse de
leur surface financiere. I1 convient de revoir ces conditions dans le cadre du PRODESS pour
permettre aux entreprises maliennes A filible capital de se positionner pour ces marches.
Conclusion
16.  Une appreciation adequate de la performance du PSPHR se doit d'aller au-dela de
l'evolution des indicateurs immediats de sante et mesurer la contribution structurelle du projet sur
l'ensemble de la politique sectorielle de sante poursuivie par le Gouvemement du Mali.
S'inscrivant dans une evolution du systWme de soins de sante primaires au Mali, le PSPHR ajoue
un r6le essentiel dans la reforme de ce secteur, placant le Mali en tete des pays de la sous-region
en matiere de reforme du secteur de la sante.
17. Le PSPHR a beneficie d'une importante synergie de vues entre les autorites maliennes et la
Banque mondiale concernant la reforme du secteur de la sante, dans le cadre du processus national
de d6centralisation. La contribution principale du PSPHR aura e  d'apporter au gouvemement du
Mali le soutien necessaire a une conceptualisation complete de la politique sectorielle. Le projet a
egalement permis de mettre en place les elements principaux pour la mise en ceuvre du nouveau
Programme d'investissement sectoriel. Ce dernier beneficiera des nombreux enseignements du
PSPHR en matiere de gestion communautaire des services de sante et d'une approche programme
qui rallie l'ensemble des partenaires aux objectifs nationaux.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
THE SECOND HEALTH, POPULATION AND
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 2217-MLI)
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
INTRODUCTION
Le present document constitue le rapport de fin d 'execution du Projet Sante Population
Hydraulique Rurale pour lequel un credit d'un montant de 19,2 millions de DTS a et signe le 03
Mai 1991 entre la Banque Mondiale ct travers l 'Association Internationale pour le
Developpement IDA et le Gouvernement de la Republique du Mali. Le credit a et mis en vigueur
en mars 1992 et vient en complement definancements negocies aupres d'autrespartenaires au
developpement pour la mise en wuvre de sa Politique Sectorielle de Sante et de Population. La
mise en aeuvre du projet s 'est etalee de mars 1992 a decembre 1998.
Le present rapport traduit le point de vue du Gouvernement de la R6publique du Mali a travers le
Ministere de la Sante, des Personnes Agees et de la Solidarite sur le Projet Sante Population
Hydraulique Rurale (PSP-HR).
I1 presente de facon succincte, les resultats de mise en ceuvre du projet ainsi que les performances
et les lecons apprises lors de sept annees de collaboration fructueuse avec l'ensemble des
intervenants.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
i.     RESUME EVALUATION
Numero du credit: Cr. 2217 MLI
Montant du credit: 19,2 millions de DTS
Beneficiaire: Ministere de la Sante des Personnes Agees et de la Solidarite.
Date d'entree en vigueur: Mars 1992
Date de cl6ture: 31 Decembre 1998
INTRODUCTION:
Le Projet Sante Population Hydraulique Rurale (PSP-EIR) a e  prepare pendant trois ans (1987-
1990) et approuve le 03 Mai 1991. 11 temoigne de la volonte du Gouvernement de la Republique
du Mali de mobiliser les ressources necessaires A la mise en ceuvre sa Politique Sectorielle de
Sant6 et de Population dont la declaration officielle a et faite le 15 decembre 1990.
1. Le Projet, instrument privilegie de la mise en ceuvre de cette politique, constitue en effet, le
cadre de la seconde intervention de la Banque Mondiale dans le secteur de la sante au Mali
(la premiere communement appel6 PDS afait l 'objet d 'un credit IDA. 1422 ML1i d 'un montant
de 16, 7 millions de dollars US et approuve le 06 septembre 1983). La mise en euvre du
projet a commence reellement en 1993 avec un an de retard sur la date prevue a cause
essentiellement des evenements survenus au Mali en mars 1991, des difficultes de la periode
de transition et des delais de preparation des Plans de Developpement Socio-sanitaires de
Cercles PDSC.
2. En effet, le Mali en 1991, se caracterisait par une situation socio-economique tres difficile
marquee par une crise dont les effets se faisaient ressentir sur tous les aspects de la vie de la
nation. Le gouvernement venait d'appliquer un programme d'ajustement structurel soutenu
par le FMI et la Banque Mondiale et d'autres membres de la communaute des partenaires au
developpement dont l'objectif essentiel etait de relancer le systeme economique et creer les
conditions d'une meilleure gestion des ressources publiques.
3. Malgre les troubles politiques survenus a cette epoque, le programme d'ajustement structurel
a presque atteint les objectifs immediats fixes hormis la reforme de la fonction publique. L'on
a observ6 une augmentation progressive du budget consacre a la sante qui a atteint 8% en
1995 et 10,7% en 1998. En depit de cette am6lioration de l'apport de 1'6tat au secteur, le
programme d'ajustement structurel a affecte negativement les services de sante A cause de la
compression du personnel et les departs volontaires de certains travailleurs A la retraite qui ont
vu le secteur perdre du personnel qualifie creant un vide dans les services. Par ailleurs,
1'effort de reduction de la taille de l'administration centrale du MSSPA a consacre la
fermeture de certaines structures importantes occasionnant ainsi des dysfonctionnements
notoires voire la perte de cadres experimentes.
4. Au plan socio-sanitaire, il existait un fort desequilibre entre les zones rurales periurbaines et
urbaines en matiere d'organisation et d'offre des services avec une forte mortalite des enfants
(102 %) et des meres (700 A 1000 d6ces matemels pour 100.000 naissances vivantes) 1iee A
un mauvais etat nutritionnel et une situation epidemiologique preoccupante (caracterisee par
la persistance des maladies transmissibles et evitables) a laquelle le systeme de sante
n'apportait pas de reponses efficaces mais aussi un manque des medicaments essentiels.



ANNEX II
Page 3 ofl2
5  Ce projet apparait comme un effort conjugue du Gouvernement, des differents partenaires
(multilat6raux,        bilateraux et Organisations non gouvernementales), des communautes
(individus, menages et associations des populations ben6ficiaires), des collectivites (cercles, et
regions) de promouvoir la sante dans un esprit de partenariat fecond.
Objectifs du Projet
Le projet vise a ameliorer la sante et le bien etre de la population malienne, notamment les
femmes et les enfants.
Les objectifs specifiques sont:
Composante Sante
* Augmenter directement la couverture et ameliorer la qualite des services de sante pour une
population d'environ 1,4 millions de personnes vivant dans les regions de Kayes, Mopti,
Segou, Koulikoro et le District de Bamako, mais aussi indirectement pour l'ensemble du pays
par une plus grande efficacite de l'utilisation des ressources sectorielles par: i)la
rehabilitation des installations concemees dans quelques 56 CSCOM ii) la construction des
installations necessaires pour environ 64 CSCOM ruraux; iii) I 'achat de materiel
d'information , d'education et de communication; iv)l'achat de medicaments et de materiel;
v) la formation du personnel.
ameliorer la couverture et la qualite des services de sante de premiere reference par:
i) la rehabilitation des installations concemres dans quelques 17 CSC; ii) la construction
des installations necessaires pour environ 4 CSC; iii) l'achat de materiel, de mobiliers, de
medicaments et de foumitures; iv) un programme d'assistance technique; v) la formation
du personnel paramedical.
Renforcer la gestion de sante au niveau du cercle par i) amelioration des bureaux des
equipes de sante de quelques 17 CSC; ii) construction de nouveaux bureaux pour environ
4 equipes de sante de cercle; iii) achat de m6dicaments, vehicules, mobylettes, ateliers et
couts d'exploitation; iv) formation du personnel et d'agents de developpement
communautaire.
Renforcer la gestion de la sante au niveau regional par: i) la rehabilitation des
installations concemres d'environ 3 DRSAS  existantes; ii) la construction des
installations necessaires pour deux nouvelles DRSAS; iii) I'achat de materiel, vehicules,
foumiture et cofits d'exploitation; iv) un programme d'assistance technique; v) la
formation du personnel.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Ameliorer 1'efficacit6 des Directions Nationales du MSPAS charge de l'utilisation des
ressources dans le domaine de la sante par :i) l'achat de materiel, v6hicule et
foumiture; ii) un programme (d'assistance technique; iii) la formation du personnel.
iL     Composante Population
Contribuer A la mise en ceuvre de la politique nationale de population afin de faire passer
le taux national de prevalence contraceptive de 1,2 A 11 pour cent par: i) un soutien
institutionnel en vue de la mise en ceuvre de la politique de population ii) accroissement
de l'offre, la qualite et l'utilisation des services de Planification Familiale.
Composante Hydraulique
Assurer aux populations vivant dans les regions de Kayes, Mopti, Segou, et Koulikoro I'acces A
1'eau potable et entreprendre des activites de lutte contre le goitre endemique a travers l'utilisation
de diffuseurs d'iode dans les points d'eau crees et i) construire 385 points d'eau; ii) remettre en
etat 500 points d'eau existants iii) promouvoir la participation financiere des villageois a des
activit6s d'investissement et d'entretien; iv) renforcer les capacites d'identification, de preparation
d'ex6cution et de supervision de la Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et l'Energie; v) mettre en
place un reseau villageois d'entretien des points d'eau ayant sa base dans les villages;
Le projet s 'inscrit dans un effort multisectoriel de reformes institutionnelles visant a aider le
gouvernement h realiser I 'objectif de la sant pour tous dans un horizon aussi rapproche que
possible. L 'innovation majeure, au niveau national est la reforme du systme national de sant en
definissant et separant lesfonctions d 'execution (devolues aux structures techniques des
minisWres charg6s de la sante et de I 'eau ainsi qu 'a certains acteurs de la societ civile comme
les ONG et le secteurprive), de coordination et de suivi de la mise en cuvre des composantes
sante, population et hydraulique rurale dans les r6gion de Kayes, Mopti, Segou, Koulikoro et
Bamako.
Le renforcement de la fonction de plzmification-programmation-budgetisation, la d6finition des
conditions d'eligibilite au financement, de normes et procedures d'organisation et de dispensation
des services, des normes de construction des infrastructures (cscom et csref), les procedures
administratives et de gestion des ressources et de passation des marches pour l'acquisition des
biens et services a des conditions avantageuses, I'appui A l'organisation des communaut6s et leur
responsabilisation dans la gestion des problemes de sant6 ont constitue des outils ayant permit
d'atteindre les resultats forts encourageants.
Rialisation des objectifs 'et principaux resuItats atteints:
iii.    En matiere de sante
* 137centres de sante avec gestion communautaire r6alises dont 91 centres de sante
communautaires (CSCOM) et 46 centres de sante d'arrondissement revitalises (CSAR)



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
equipes ean materiel technique et en medicaments essentiels. A ces 137 structures de premier
niveau fonctionnels, soit un taux de realisation de 94,5% pour les CSCOM et de 100% pour
les CSAR. 11 faut ajouter 13 autres qui sont en cours de realisation qui porteraient le nombre
total de structures de premier contact a 151 soit 104% dont 104 cscom (86,6%) et 47 csar
(188%x)
e Quatres Directions regionales de sante (DRS) reconstuites, renov6es et equipees;
 30 cercles elus aux financement du PSPHR contre 21 initialement prevus (60%) sur
I'ensemble de la zone PSPHR, soit un taux de realisation de 143%. Au terme du projet, sur les
30 cercles elus, 23 auront leur centre de sante de reference entierement rehabilites soit 76%, le
reste 6tant couvert par d'autres financements.
* Cinq centres de sante de cercleentierement equipes sur les 23 structures rehabilitees ou en
cours de r6habilitation soit 21,73%. A cela il faut ajouter les 18 autres structures restantes
pour lesquels les march6s sont en cours d'execution soit 78,26% sur financement du FED;
*  Sept centres de sante de cercle (CSC) fonctionnels, offrant des services de ref6rence et
assuran,t ia gestion du systeme de sante de cercle. La dotation des CSC et cscom en RAC pour
faciliter la r6f6rence et l'evacuation des malades ainsi que le developpement d'un systeme de
partage des coats de la reference entre l'Etat, les ASACO et le malade.
o Le developpement d'un schema Directeur d'approvisionnement en medicaments
essentiels pour I'operationnalisation des politiques de sante de population et de medicaments
qiui a permi de doter 1'ensemble des structures de premier contact et de constituer au niveau de
ch-arue cercle un dep6t repartiteur pour faire face aux ruptures de stocks, assurer la
disporlbilite du medicament et reduire les cofits de traitement pour les malades. L'appui a la
restructumation de la Pharmacie Populaire du Mali qui a pu proceder au redimentionnement
des effectifs de son personnel et recentrer sa mission sur le medicament essentiel en DCI. La
preparation d'une Politique Nationale Pharmaceutique grace a la mise en place d'une
C(mrr.ission Nationale a cette fin.
 Le d&veloppement d'un schema Directeur pour le systeme national d'information
sanitaire et social aura permis de disposer d'informations socio-sanitaires malgre les
insuffisances pour faciliter la prise de d6cisions aux differents niveaux
*  La ea isation d'une enquete demographique et de sante (EDS II) et de 16 etudes dans le
cadre de la preparation du Programme d'Investissement Sectoriel (PRODESS);
*  La r&aiisation d'un nombre impressionnant de formation continue (5 739 personnes
form6es), touchant des domaines aussi varies que la sante de la reproduction, l'IEC, la
Rcherche-Action, la Planification et le Management des Projets et Programmes, la
comptabilitU/gestion, Ilinforrnation sanitaire, le counseling, la Distribution a Base
Communautaire, I'assainissement et 1'eau etc...
Ces formations concement, en majorite le personnel du secteur public mais aussi celui des
ONG et les agents de sante communautaire.
Deux strategies nationales, relatives a la fonnation continue et a 1'IEC ont et e1abore ainsi
que la production outils pedagogiques standards (8 modules de formation) d'usage national,



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
pour une meilleure consolidation des acquis de la politique sectorielle de sante et de
population.
Dans le domaine de la sp6cialisation, le projet a contribue a la formation de quatre medecins
en sante publique;
Creation de quatre Logiciels (Formation du personnel, DESAM, SPM, Estimation des stocks
initiaux de ME) pour la formation, la programmation et le monitorage des donnees socio-
sanitaires et la pr&vision.
L'adhesion des communautes a l'esprit de la politique sectorielle de sante et de
population dans son ensemble l'indicateur propose etant le nombre d'associations de sante
communautaire ainsi les federations aux differents niveaux (national, regional et local)
i g                                      . . . .   ,     tt    .     .... . . .   . . . .   . . .. . . . ..  ........   ,    , S ..       ... 0|tSaS, , .... 
E-'':.'.reAe' d p ilation
*  Le renforcement institutionnel de la Direction Nationale de la Planification en appuyant la
formulation des Programmes Prioritaires d'Investissement (PPI)dans le cadre de la mise en
couvre de la Politique Nationale de Population. La creation de la CONACOPP et son
operationalisation.
* Elaboration des normes et procedures en SRIPF et dotation des services de Sante de la
Reproduction et Planification Familiale en petit materiel permettant une rationalisation de
l'offre des services;
* Les activites de marketing social couvrent l'ensemble du pays avec 9975 points de vente de
contraceptifs et la distribution a base communautaire est effectuee dans 591 villages des
regions de S6gou, Sikasso et Koulikoro;
* La mise en ceuvre des programmes de distribution a base communautaire des contraceptifs
(DSFC, AMPPF, FASEF, POP. COUNCIL) a permis de faire passer le taux de prevalence
contraceptive, dans certaines zones du pays, de 1,1 a 15 pour cent;
*  Les fonds d'action  sociale et d'education  familiale  (FASEF), subventionne une
cinquantaine de petits projets d'ONG, des secteurs prive et public touchant pres de 760 000
habitants r6partis entre les neuf regions du pays avec un taux de prevalence contraceptive
variant entre 2,4 et 27,11% dans les zone couvertes par ces projets.
* Un soutien aux activit6s en matiere de lutte contre le Sida et les maladies sexuellement
transmissibles par le financement des plans d'operations des cercles, des etudes et recherche
et la contribution au progranme de mobilisation et l'organisation des journees de lutte contre
le Sida/MST.
t . ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . .   . . . . .  =. t   .   t .   . . . . .    . ............ ....................= ...
*  De 1992 a 1996, rehabilitation de 622 pompes sur 500 prevus;
*  De 1994 a 1997, Construction de 450 forages sur 385 prevus dans les cercles de Kenieba et
Bafoulabe;
*  En 1992 realisation de trois (3) etudes portant sur les besoins en eau potable dans les regions
de Koulikoro, Mopti et de S6gou;



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
* En 1998 realisation de 49 forages dans les cscom sur les fonds KFW sur la base des
recommandations de la revue a mi- parcours du projet
* Mise en place de trois magasins, dont deux prives de pieces detachees afin d'assurer la
disponibilite des pieces de rechange meme apres la fin du projet.
iv.    Actions du Gouvemement
Dfinition de la politique:
Tirant les enseignements de trois decennies, le Gouvernement de la republique Mali a compris la
necessite de definir un cadre de r6f6rence et d'intervention qui soit connu, accept6 et partage par la
majorite des acteurs du developpement socio-sanitaire. C'est dans ce contexte que la Politique de
Sant& a e  fonmule avec I'assistance technique des partenaires conform6ment aux ideaux de paix
et de justice sociale prone, par les differentes constitutions successives que le pays a connues.
Cette politique est conforme a l'Objectif de la Sante pour tous sur un horizon rapproche et au
principe des soins de sante primaire et de l'Initiative de Bamako tels que d6finis par
l'Organisation Mondiale de la Sante et adoptes par les pays membres.
V.     Organisation du secteur de la sante et les reformes
institutionnelles
Le Goutvernement pour mettre sa politique en mivre a procede la creation de deux cellules
(Cellules de Planification et statistique, , de coordination du PSP-HR) la restructuration de la
CEPRIS TK qui seront directement rattach6es au Ministere et permettrait une meilleure
coordination des actions et la mobilisation des ressources necessaires au systeme de sante.
Le Ministere de la Sante pour adapter son cadre organisationnel au contexte de la nouvelle
politique a aussi restructure certains services centraux comme la Direction Nationale de Sante
Publique, la Direction Nationale de I 'Action Sociale en developpant les missions de sant6
publique et d 'appui a l 'organisation des communautes.
Les structures de suivi et de coordination comme le Comite Technique et Comite de Suivi de la
Politique Sectorielle et les Revue annuelles conjointes ontpermis de piloter les actions du projet
conformement aux orientations techniques et strategiques edictees par le Gouvernement et ses
partenaires. Plus tard le Comite de Suivi du PSP-HR est devenu le Comite de Suivi de la Politique
Sectorielle de Sante et de Population
La reforme du secteur de la pharmacie et du medicament a vu la cr6ation au sein de la PPM
d 'une Unit6 de gestion du !vE, 1 'abandon progressif des specialites et la reduction des effectifs et
des charges a travers un contrat-plan et I 'achat des medicaments par appel a la concurrence
pour une reduction substantielle des cozuts et prix de vente dans les structures. Les activit6s de
I'Usine Malienne de Produits Pharmaceutiques ont ete focalisees sur la production des ME pour
lesquels, elle a un avantage comparatifrelatifpar rapport aux importations. Une liste type de ME
est adoptee par niveau, les prescripteurs et gestionnairesformes en consequence. Les previsions
de consommation seront desormais etablies enfonction de certainsparametres entre autres le
taux de fr6quentation, la population de l 'aire de sante, les norme de prescription etc...



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
L'organisation de l'offre des services de sante:
Le gouvemement dans un souci de rationalisation des ressources du secteur de la sante a
developpe un processus de planification d6centralisee qui offrait l'opportunite a chaque cercle de
proposer sur une periode quinquennale les objectifs de developpement socio-sanitaire a atteindre.
Le PDSC, cadre de coordination des interventions des differents acteurs, comprenant outre les
objectifs et strategies definissait une carte sanitaire previsionnelle a negocier et operationnaliser
avec les communautes au cours de la periode, un plan de financement (investissement et
fonctionnement) et les resultats de trois a six mois d'activites d'un centre de sante communautaire
test.
Le Gouvemement a ensuite defini les criteres d'eligibilite au financement du projet consideres
comme des criteres de succes de sa politique qui sont entre autres. 1'elaboration d'un PDSC
soumis a l'approbation prealable du cercle de la region et du Comit& de Suivi, la constitution
d'une equipe cadre au niveau du cercle (ESSC) compose d'au moins deux mrdecins, de technicien
de d6veloppement communautaire, d'in technicien sanitaire, d'une sage-femme et de personnel
param6dical capable de g6rer les problemes de sante du cercle, mobiliser 7% de la Taxe de
Developpement Regionale et Locale (TDRL), pour des actions en faveur de la sante.
operationnaliser un cscom-test et presenter les resultats de trois a six mois de fonctionnement
prouvant ainsi l'aptitude des ESSC et des ASACO a assurer la viabilite et la perennisation du
systeme.
Sur cette base, la mise en ceuvre du PDSC commence par un programme d'extension de
couverture sanitaire des services de sante primaire a la base fournis par les cscom et les csar.
Actuellement, le taux de couverture pour l'ensemble du Mali est estimee a 46% pour l'ensemble
du Mali et 51% en 1998 pour la zone d'intervention du Proj et avec une forte variabilite d'une
region a I'autre et a l'interieur de certains cercles comme Djenne qui a une couverture totale
pendant Youwarou n'a pas encore satisfait les conditions d'eligibilite.
Du point de vue de la dispensation et de la qualite, la hierarchisation de I'offre des services a
pennis de definir un paquet minimum d'activites (PMA) offert par les structures aux differents
niveaux et ax6 essentiellement sur les lbesoins de la population en fonction de la morbidite et de
l'epidemiologie. Les programmes de formation continue du personnel et les curriculas de
certaines 6coles de formation socio-sanitaire ont ete adaptes en consequence. I1 faut signaler que
les niveaux de performance dans l'utilisation des services restent variables dans les regions et
cercles. En effet, dans les aires de santF-, oui le personnel est reste stable avec une vision claire de
son role, et beneficie de I'appui reel de I'ASACO, les resultats sont nettement satisfaisants, a
contrario, ils restent relativement faibles si ces conditions ne sont pas remplies.
Le renforcement des structures de premiere reference comporte plusieurs composantes dont la
definition des fonctions essentielles d'administration et de gestion du systeme de sante publique
(la formation, la supervision y compris l'integration des programmes nationaux etc) et technique
de reference pour soutenir efficacement les cscom csar, la renovation extension des infrastructures
conformement aux e1lments de normes disponibles, l'equipement, le financement sur la base du
partage des couts entre l'Etat, les usagers et associations de beneficiaires et les collectivites. Ce
volet a connu d'enormes difficultes et n'a pu etre realise qu'en fin de projet. En consequence, un
veritable systeme de sante de cercle n'a pu etre etabli partout out il se devait. Cela pose le
probleme de synergie dans la mobilisation des cofinancements par rapport auquel des actions
appropriees doivent prises pour faciliter la mise en ceuvre du PRODESS auquel tous les
partenaires (16) du secteur vont contribuer.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
vi.    La participation des communautes
La participation des communautes, principe annonce dans la declaration de politique de sante ne
s'est pas oper6e sans difficult6s. En effet, outre le temps de comprehension et d'appropriation de
la politique par les communautes, les equipes socio-sanitaires ont procede A des negociations dans
le cadre de I'approche communautaire qui se sont averees parfois longues et difficiles. Par ailleurs
les modalites du nouveau partenariat ont etes lentes A s'instaurer et la contribution de la
communaute dans le cadre de la realisation du genie civil reste souvent difficile a mobiliser (25%
du cout des infrastructures de premier contact). Si l'on considere que ni les ESSC et les ASACO
n'avaient aucune experience de cette nouvelle forme de gestion des problemes de sante, on peut
affirmer que le processus se deroule d'une maniere satisfaisante et que la plupart des centres de
sante peripheriques avec gestion communautaire fonctionnement efficacement. Aujourd'hui, le
Mali compte environ 383 associations de sante communautaires ASACO, 39 Federations locales
d' associations de sant6 communautaires au niveau cercle FELASCOM et 5 Federations regionales
d'associations de sante communautaires FERASCOM, et 1 Federation Nationale d'association de
sante communautaire. La grosse lacune constatee A ce niveau est la faible capacite des
responsables communautaires en gestion et animation.
La coordination des interventions et du financement:
La mise en wuvre du projet a et6 une occasion pour le gouvernement de definir assez clairement
les relations fonctionnelles entre ses differentes structures et les ameliorer au besoin, mais aussi
d 'etablir ou consolider la collaboration intersectorielle avec d 'autres Departements i charge du
Plan (pour la coordination de la politique de population), de I 'hydraulique (pour I 'accs i 1 'eau
potable) I 'administration territoriale (la planification et le suivi des actions), les finances
(aspects financement et macro-economiques du projet) et les certaines organisations et
associations non gouvernementales intervenant dans le secteur de la sante et de I 'action sociale
(comme le GP/SP, la FENASCOM, ASACO, Popcouncil, Save the children etc...)
Dans le cadre de la mobilisation des financements necessaires a la mise en ceuvre de sa politique,
le gouvemement a organise regulierement un exercice de programmation annuelle des ressources
pour permettre aux differents bailleurs de confirmer leurs engagements sur la base des plans
d'operations annuels elabor6s aux differents niveaux et consolid6s par la CCPSPHR discutes et
adoptes lors des revues annuelles du projet avec 1'ensemble des parties prenantes. Ces revues
constituent une occasion pour discuter les resultats operationnels atteints, d'analyser les
problemes lies aux differentes strategies et de donner des orientations et instructions pour une
meilleure performance.
Au terme de la 7eme annee du projet et de la mise en ouvre de la politique, les taux d'utilisation
des fonds negocies aupres des differents partenaires sont les suivants: IDA 98,4%, KFW 77%,
FED 60%, USAID, 86% GRM, 100%. Certains partenaires comme 1'UNICEF, 1'OMS, le PNUD,
le FNUAP, le Royaume de Belgique, le Royaume des Pays-Bas, le FAC etc... ont dans le cadre de
leurs programmes de cooperation avec le Gouvernement, largement contribue a la reussite de la
politique de sante. D'une fa,on particuliere, l'UNICEF en soutenant les equipes regionales par
leur dotation en conseillers techniques charges de I'assistance A la preparation des cercles A la
satisfaction des conditions d'eligibilite, le lancement du programme de pdrinatalite comme porte
d'entree de l'organisation de la refdrence entre autres a ete sans conteste l'organisme dont I'action
aura jete les bases d'une complementarite et une cohesion qui etaient necessaires des les



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
premieres annees de mise en ccuvre et prefigurer des conditions d'un programme d'investissement
dans le secteur de la sante. La clarte des objectifs des composantes et leur mise en ceuvre,
I'appropriation par le niveau central (directions nationales)/versus equipes regionales et de
cercles, les actions menees a un niveau decentralise ont e  tres determinantes pour operer le
changement de mentalite. Les equipes ont demontre la faisabilite des strategies retenues et du
coup ont lever un scepticisme qui etait present tant au sein du D6partement que parmi les
partenaires .
:             ESE SEt E:-   .E ESE :iS E:!   -:   -  SUE E.U S;E t0400it:iERERyED  i StEtEER: .!vim:.E S .r .ESSStE lEt:EL. W:0: ... ..:: ! .i .... :,.:g-:igE:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:. .. .. ................... 
La Banque Mondiale a travers un soutien regulier, des missions de supervision programmees a su
focaliser l'interet des autres partenaires et du gouvemement sur les enjeux reels de ce projet. II
s'agissait pour chacun d'avoir une nouvelle vision de la problematique du developpement humain
durable qu'il fallait impulser et creer les conditions d'un developpement du secteur.
De par son action, la Banque a su creer avec le Gouvernement un espace de negociation de
concertation et d'echanges fructueux qui ont contribue a la finalisation et l'operationalisation des
differentes politiques et A l'analyse des differentes strategies du secteurs pour les centrer sur les
enjeux reels.
Au terme de sept annees, la conviction est etablie que le choix politique effectu6 6tait base sur une
analyse approfondie de l'experience passee et que les ressources mises a disposition servent
reellement A lutter contre la pauvrete.
La flexibilite de son financement a, aussi permis de faire face aux differentes difficultes
rencontrees lors de la mise en ceuvre, notamment en matiere de fonnation continue centree sur les
besoins reels des praticiens, la realisation du volet renforcement des structures de premiere
reference et le FASEF.
Le recrutement de specialistes en sante publique, gestionfinanciere et gestion des marches a la
mission residente de la Banque au Mali afacilit le dialogue et contribue a fructifier d 'avantage
une cooperation jugee satisfaisante.
La mise en ceuvre du PSP-HR aura permis de retenir des leZons dont les points forts sont les
suivants:
Le financement accorde par la Banque Mondiale au Gouvemement de la Republique du Mali pour
financer sa politique de sant& de population et d'action sociale aura sans conteste sinon jeter les
bases reelles d'une decentralisation et d'une synergie d'intervention entre celui-ci et les autres
partenaires du moins aura permis de poser les jalons d'une politique qui se veut volontariste et
plus ciblee sur les besoins des beneficiaires.
Le r6le de soutien et d'accompagnement et de financement joue par le Projet Sante Population
Hydraulique Rurale A travers, l'Flaboration, la diffusion de nouvelles methodes et procedures de
travail aura fortement contribue au reniorcement des comp6tences et des capacites des differents
intervenants A tous les niveaux.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Le travail important d'accompagnement realise par les partenaires au developpement est le debut
d'une complementarite dans l'effort de developpement du Mali. C'est le cas des financements
mobilis6s aupres de 1'USAID et d'autres partenaires pour la mise en ceuvre du volet population
dans le cadre du PSP-HR.
Les realisations du volet hydraulique et l'appui a l'organisation des ASACO ont permis de creer
les poles de developpement et sans nul doute de tracer les voies du succes de l'action
communautaire toutes choses indispensables dans un contexte de decentralisation.
Le pari de la restructuration du secteur pharmaceutique qui paraissait insurmontable a connu un
debut de realisation avec les resultats encourageants obtenus qu'il faut consolider.
Enfin le r6le experimental que le PSP-HR aura joue a facilite les conditions de preparation du
PRODESS etjeter les fondement d'un developpement socio-sanitaire plus global et plus durable.
Cela a &6 possible grdce la stabilite des decideurs tant du cote du gouvernement oiu le meme chef
de Departement a conduit la politique pendant cinq annees que de la Banque qui aussi, a
maintenu le task manager durant tout le projet.
En depit de ces aspects positifs, des defis restent a relever it s'agit entre autres de:
La disponibilite des ressources humaines en quantite et qualite necessaires au fonctionnement du
systeme de sante. Outre les departs enregistres au sein de la cellule de coordination du projet, les
ASACO ont e  confrontees a la perte de leur personnel a la suite des recrutements dans la
fonction publique et a une indisponibilit6 sur le marche du travail.
La faible frequentation des structures et le niveau relativement bas de certains indicateurs. Cela
denote que les changements structurels et de comportement sont lents a se realiser.
La quasi absence dans les ASACO de la population feminine consideree ajuste titre I 'acteur
principal economique et moteur de I 'activite communautaire. II convient de r6fl6chir aux
modalit6s d 'une plus grande implication desfemmes rurales dans la gestion desproblemes de
sante.
Le manque de synergie dans la mobilisation de financements complementaires.
La mise en cuvre du PSP-IR a ete opportunit6 offerte aux cadres du MSPAS d'acquerir une
somme importante d'experience en matiere de formulation de besoins de service de sante des
populations, de programmation des actions qui ont ete mise au service de l'equipe de preparation
du Plan Decennal de Developpement Sanitaire et du Programme de Developpement.
Ce programme, expression d'une vision claire et partagee du futur socio-sanitaire des maliens
pour l'entree dans le 21e siecle correspond a une approche plus globale et coherente de l'action
gouvemementale. I1 contribuera sans nul doute a consolider les resultats deja atteints et a couvrir
de nouveaux aspects insuffisamment pris en compte dans les programmes pr6cedents.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
<< II n'y a point de pathologie sociale qu'une solidarite et un systeme de sante bien organises ne
sauraient guerir >> Telle est notre conviction au terme de la mise en muvre de cette entreprise au
cours de laquelle, la communaute des partenaires au d6veloppement y compris les ONG, les
populations, les communautes et collectivites ont joint leurs efforts a ceux du Gouvemement de la
Republique du Mali pour que la majorite des maliens aient acces aux services de sante dans un
esprit d'equite de justice sociale et de paix.



MAP



IBRD 21988
M  A  L I
SECOND HEALTH AND POPULATION PROJECT
DELUXIAEM PROJET DE SANTE ET DE POPULATION                                                                                                           L
DISTRICTS HEALTH CENTERS (DHC)
CEANRES Df SANTE LF CERCLE f(CSC)                                                                                                                                *
REGIONAL HEALTH TEAM (RHT)
EQUfIPE RfGCONALf Df SANTfE
PROJECT AREA COVERED BY FIRST PROJECT
ZONf DLJ PREA4fER PROJET
PROJECT AREA COVERED BY THE SECOND PROJECT
ZONE DLI DFEIXIEA4F PROJEr
INATIONAL CAPITAL                                                               \/                                      ;
CAP/TrALE DU PAYS
DISTRICT CAPITAL                         PAVED ROADS
o      CHEF LIfU Df CERCfE                      ROUTES REVETUES
REGION CAPITAL                           RAILROADS\                                                                                           ,
*      Cf-/Ff LIEU OF REGION                  CHEALIN DE FFe
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                      INTERNATIONAL BOUDARIES
LIA4TfES DE CERCLE                       FRON7/FRES INTERNATIONfALES
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                        0TMBOUCTOU                           
-LIASIT-ES OF REG9ION 
f  D  Rf CON                          (RMA RHAROUS                               / \O
'COUNDAM 0f                                                            /     /      
)                   X6DIRt                              1^     3CAO       J                  MENA_
M   A  U  R  I T A  N  I A                              ONIAFo  /
% ~ YELIMAN;y7    N                     N                            -  O  I RE  ON
1:~~~~~~~OJIO/  : .zfF0............/N                                          3..;::     f3  'ICTSCr 0 DOOENTZA  :      : * _-._  
0  KAYES r^ Ol-                DEMA        \      ,                           NKOU  f7/ Sf /^f   ^/+    
0                A A A A                       ,                                    _G
'   3 '-t -" 0 '0 ''  ; *O   s uS   =               >                                                                  MURITANA INA        G        R 
op                                                       0      ~~~~~~0   ~ / ~     Dd                                                        I
LOKANIRI                                  0        8AN AS5Y  S ORb
0   50  1 00  1 50  200  2 50   OF 7 ) 1 '/                                                               - SZ
0I     LOMTcUTIAA     0ROS0)                                                                                          ALGERIA
CC TE  D   VOIA               py  nl   alo  h   ol  aeadlh   tmbnlFac   oprro   nsdm1   GINA' A-                      t. Brl
/0  ~O0U/-              SIKASSO                                                                           ARTNA
|VNF L         KO U OI                     on  Mh 'slsaU    fayterl      rayEd1smn    tacpaec    /SC    pnaue         S         -~   
NIGER
o   50  100  1 50  200  250                 \ 
ILMETERS                                                                                                                                                                         ERAAIn a e  'pESo h nCBnSsal ,5,''   ~CCI          'B RN'4 r~
haenesad,        -dhsOy ~ h ,tn  -dn Th,  adBn n h nnolne                      Oe-            NIRA
COTE  D'[VOl RE              *tnntpatos heWotdSn n h nentoaFnne npttnnntm,t                GI-.(
IItantI, te,th0  n' rnsA,   lc -pa,no  nh h-nda,-e



